ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u1	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 13 July 2017, Maciej Krzanowski, Senator of the First term, member of the Committee on Environment, Social Policy and Health and Immigration and Poles Abroad died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence Senator Maciej Krzanowski's memory. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Law on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and certain other laws The second reading of the draft resolution on the commemoration of the victims of the Polish operation of the NKVD of 1937. The second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the National Committee of Poland and consider it as item twenty-seven of the agenda; second reading of the draft resolution on the 25th anniversary of the appeal of the government of Jan Olszewski and consider it as item twenty-eighth of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result of the actions of the senators, also with your kindness, at the last moment, there are three laws... special resolutions that clearly indicate that you prefer some senators, denying those rights to others. That's why I'm asking until I decide to provide information about all the resolutions that are behind your staff. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[As long as it's not a chick...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u3	Thank you. I understand that you, Senator... [[Objection.]] What objection? [[Objection.]] But you didn't. Go back to the podium and state what the senator's objection is. You said very generally.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u4	Yes, Mr. Marshal. I think there's something else you've noticed, but okay. Objection against only 3 resolutions. [[Three or three? I see.]] Those three.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u5	I see. So there is a vote of objection concerning the second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the victims of the so-called. operation of the Polish NKVD from 1937, on the anniversary of the creation of the National Committee of Poland and on the twenty-fiveth anniversary of the appeal... I see. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u6	I object to the second reading of the draft resolution on the 25th anniversary of the appeal of the government of Jan Olszewski. [[Mr. Marshal, you can express your opinion in the vote...]] I know, but... [[...which will be carried out... let's not repeat ourselves now because...]] No, Mr. Marshal... [[...100 senators could report at the moment to express their opinion. You've already notified the senator so that...]] Mr. Marshal, but the senator has objected to three resolutions. I'm only filing for one resolution. [[It's dwarf, Mr. Marshal!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u7	Okay, I'm the... Good. Anyone else want to object? [[Voice from the room: No, no, no.]] [[I want you to come to your senses.]] In that case, I'll put you to the vote... So there's no objection to the introduction of a law to amend the Law on Substances. Right now... Who is in favour of this... of my motion for a second reading of the draft resolution on commemoration of the victims of the Polish NKVD operation of 1937. And to consider this item as the twenty-sixth item on the agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The vote was 67... 68... some senators are late... 69 senators voted, 58 for, 9 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 65]] In view of the results of the vote, I declare that the High Chamber included on the agenda a second reading of the draft resolution on commemoration of the victims of the Polish operation of NKVD from 1937. Who is in favour of putting on the agenda a second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the National Committee of Poland and considering this item as the twenty-seventh? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. He voted 72 senators, 64 were in favour, 6 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 66]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the agenda was supplemented by a second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the creation of the National Committee of Poland. This punt will be considered as item twenty-seven of the agenda. We proceed to the third vote. Who is in favour of including on the agenda the second reading of the draft resolution on the 25th anniversary of the cancellation of the government of Jan Olszewski and considering this item as the twenty-eighth? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 19 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 67]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the High Chamber included on the agenda a second reading of the draft resolution on the 25th anniversary of the cancellation of the government of Jan Olszewski. This item will be considered as the twenty-eighth agenda. I would like to inform you that, in the case of the adoption by the Sejm of the Law on Water Law and the Law on the Supreme Court, and after the preparation of the reports by the Senate committees, the agenda of the present Senate meeting may be supplemented by points covering their consideration. I would like to inform you that the Senate meeting has been extended by an additional day, which is July 19th. Tonight, at 6:00 p.m., an adjournment will be announced. Resume tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. [[Marshal Borusewicz reporting.]] Marshal Borusewicz. Yes? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u8	Mr. Marshal, I would like to inform you that I will object to the inclusion on the agenda of these two laws that you have mentioned, namely water laws and the Supreme Court Act. [[But that's not about it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u9	But it's at the right time. [[Just in case...]] Okay, I get it. [[Senator Rulewski's still here.]] Senator Rulewski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u10	Can a request be made to complete the agenda? [[It is always possible, at any time of the sitting, to do so, Senator. So you can report him, of course.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your smile provoked me enough to repeat, once again, I will submit my request for the draft resolution to be prepared by the committees. The February of this year on Donald Tusk's support for the president... [[Again about Tusk...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...The European Council was placed on the agenda of this meeting on similar terms, without favor, as happened with the draft resolutions. In the explanatory memorandum, I am not only referring to the substance of the case itself and to the rules of procedure, but I am also referring to you as a man who undoubtedly follows the political scene and will follow the example of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, who opposed the government's proposal for a fuel levy. I think you can afford it. You can also afford to break this veto of how respected Senator Dobrzyński I am and put this resolution on the agenda. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I don't understand. I'm sorry.]] [[Voice from the room: What's the point?]] The point is, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, because you... [[But I understand the point.]] You understand, but you've been busy. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The point is that Tusk must, of course, return here in the Senate. [[Applause]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u11	Senator Dobrzyński reporting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I object to Senator Rulewski's request, the esteemed Senator Rulewski, but I agree with the senator that this choice is incomplete without the support of the Polish government and without the support of the Senate. That's how I understand your conclusion, Senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u13	Thank you very much. In what mode, Senator? [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u14	I would like to correct the incorrect information given by Senator Rulewski. The fuel levy project was by a group of Members, it was not a government submission, and you said it was a government submission. Thank you. [[I was talking about resolutions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u15	Yeah, that's right. Thank you very much, senator. The inaccuracies of the senator's statements were not only noticed by your senator, but I did not want to start a discussion any more. We're gonna vote on Senator Rulewski's motion for a transfer... just a moment, 'cause I turned off my own microphone. To put on the agenda a resolution whose senator is a co-author. [[And a representative.]] Yes, and a representative. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're giving the results... Once again, who's in favour of Senator Rulewski's request? Who's against Senator Rulewski's motion? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 21 for, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 68]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that the Senate has rejected senator Rulewski's formal motion. We proceed to the joint consideration of the 19th and 20th agenda items: information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016; the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2016 together with information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2016. The text of the information of the National Media Council is contained in print No 463, and the report of the National Radio and Television Council In print No 468. The reports of the Committee on Culture and Media on these documents are contained in print No 463 S and in print No 468 S. I would like to welcome to the Senate the President of the National Media Council, Mr Krzysztof Czabański. Hello, Mr President, Mr President. And I would very much like to ask the President to take the floor and present information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u16	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Information on the activities of the National Media Council covers the last six months, as the Council has been operating since August 2016. This report, this information is quite short. The state has it in its documents, and I don't want to repeat it. I will only draw attention to some of the most important points, in my opinion, relating to the activities of the Media Council and to the National Media Council Act. It is as if the intention of the legislator was that the public media, which have so far acted in a certain dispersion, should act together. This concerns both radio and television, as well as the Polish Press Agency, because I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Polish Press Agency usually fell out of the discussion about public media. Few people remember that such a thing is also a very important public medium and plays a very important role in media life, in public and social life in Poland, because it provides information to most local newspapers and much of the information to regional newspapers and media, as well as the Internet is largely based on information provided by the Polish Press Agency. The first provision of the Act on the National Media Council was to consolidate the activities of these media, not integrating them in a formal and organisational sense, but so that they were subordinated to a certain state thought in their substantive activities. I must say, on the basis of this six-month practice, that it is difficult, but it is possible to integrate certain activities of separate companies. These are separate companies of the State Treasury, and I would like to point out that each of them has its own objectives set by the owner and must account for itself in accordance with the Commercial Companies Code. However, some joint action is still possible. Work on the creation of a portal for national media, a common portal for Polish Television, Polish Radio, regional companies of Polish Radio and the Polish Press Agency is underway. It is also very important that these media take action not only in the field of publicity, but also in the sphere of culture, because this is the most important issue for public media. Despite the discussion of the media, which is sometimes discussed, political matters are only an epidermal layer. It is important that they inspire, be a patron and provide a forum for presenting contemporary Polish culture. And here we are also trying to inspire individual companies to go this way, in this direction. I can tell you that a joint venture is being prepared in the form of public media awards, national media, for cultural artists in the field of literature, in the field of film and in the field of serious contemporary music, Polish music. Such awards will be announced in the autumn of this year. These will be joint national media awards for contemporary Polish creators. Ten years ago, awards concerning literature and music were already handed out jointly by Polish Television and Polish Radio. Two editions took place as presidents of Andrzej Urbanski as president of TV and as president of Polish Radio, but only once were awards awarded, because after our cancellation of these functions the next boards did not continue to award public media awards. And this was a good inspiration, supporting Polish culture, cultural creators, because it was not only about those who won and won these awards, although they were outstanding creators, but also about the fact that the lists of nominees numbered 10 names, and the works of nominated authors of Polish literature and contemporary classical music were presented in public media, on television and on radio for many months before the final decision was reached who won the grand prix. And it was a great promotion of contemporary Polish culture. As you know, such projects are currently a little lacking in public media, especially on television. I am glad that the companies have come to an agreement and that such awards will be launched again in the autumn, I hope that we have already stood. I return directly to the organizational work of the National Media Council. Even though the bill didn't order it, it didn't provide for it. But fortunately, she didn't forbid it either. We have announced competitions open to members of the Boards of Polish Television and Polish Radio. The competition for the President of Polish Television was decided last year, as you know. The competition for President of Polish Radio was decided this year, but the competition process itself started last year, so it partly falls within the scope of this information. As far as the Polish Press Agency is concerned, since last May the competition was still held by the old supervisory board of the Polish Press Agency, it was an open competition that we considered that we would not repeat this procedure after a few months and announce a new competition. We took note of the decision of the previous supervisory board of the Polish Press Agency. Besides, the board, how can you learn from this information, dealt with various matters of current order. She also started to set up programme councils in individual companies, and the results of these calls, generally speaking, will be the theme of the next information, which will be for 2017. But it is worth noting now that first of all, the software councils have a much stronger position in companies than in many recent years, because their opinion depends, among other things, on them. the allocation of subscriptions and funds granted by the National Radio and Television Council; secondly, from our point of view, i.e. from the point of view of the National Media Council, the opinion of the Programme Councils is very important when it comes to the implementation of the mission by the public media, because we, in cooperation with these councils, want to play our main role in supervising the implementation of the mission. If there are questions, of course, Mr. Marshal, I am serving with the answers, but I have to justify myself immediately that there is a debate in the Seym at this moment and there may be a vote in a moment, and then I will have to leave you, for which I apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u17	Of course, I understand that perfectly. Thank you so much for being here, Mr President, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President regarding the information in question. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Fedorovich, and then Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question is: why didn't Mr Juliusz Braun take part in the parliamentary debate on the report of the National Media Council and give a separate opinion? That happened again at our meeting. What were the reasons for this? However, we want a picture from two pages to be presented in such situations. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Can I answer right away, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u19	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u20	Mr President, the law does not provide for such a procedure. The Act provides that it is possible to declare a separate sentence And Mr. Julius Braun gave a separate opinion to the information. But this separate sentence is not part of the information provided to the Sejm and the Senate. It regulates the bill. A separate opinion is submitted to the minutes and, of course, in the minutes of the National Media Council it is a separate sentence. Mr. Juliusz Braun was invited to a committee meeting, at least a senate one, as I recall, and I think he was making comments there. I could not attend this committee meeting, for which I am sorry, but Mrs Lichocka was at that meeting. I know Mr. Braun was there, and he was commenting. National Media Council... The comments to the information treated as official comments, as part of the information, are comments which may be made by the Sejm, the Senate and the President, as laid down in the Act. And to these comments, the National Media Council is required to reply in writing, well, on a decent date, there is no specific deadline, but it is known that without undue delay. And as for Mr. Braun's comments, As I say, this is the shape of the law and we have acted in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Then you're Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u22	Mr President, earlier you, then a colleague, and me, and many millions of communes planted their feet and you were able to remove this leg, among others. Leading the War Tygodnik. Now you have announced 6 different concepts regarding the most important problem of national media, subscription, including, well, did not use plagiarism, but rather disturbed my concept of television for copper. Why do you lack the courage to kick that leg that bothers you? What makes you think you're deserting this field? Truth and only truth, as you wrote in the War Weekend, interest me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u23	Mr. Marshal, may I? Mr. Senator, as you may remember, I have reported a project developed in a team that I led in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, a project related to a subscription paid in connection with the energy bill. It was a project that went further, because he even intended to transform public media, these companies into state legal entities. This was caused not by any desire to bureaucratize, but by a desire to be transparent about spending money in these companies. Because companies allow you to know what you know very well, because for many years this activity continues... The status of companies in commercial law allows you to hide or hide, so to speak, the mist of company secrecy or the commercial interest of certain flows of money, expenses, etc. Of course, there is competition on the market and some of these restrictions on the provision of financial information are understandable, especially the content of commercial contracts. It is clear that the companies If they were called companies, as at the moment, would they be state-owned legal persons Nor can competitors reveal too much. So that's what it would take. But it seemed to us, as we created this project in the Ministry, that it would be good to increase this level of transparency a little bit. A political decision was then made not to introduce this project, because it requires a long notification procedure and faster subscription solutions were needed. It seemed that these quicker solutions to the subscription would really be faster. I didn't do this anymore, Mr. Senator, because I resigned from my government function to enter the National Media Council, and the National Media Council has nothing to do with the subscription. I don't want to blame a colleague of Kołodziejski, the chairman who is sitting there, but the National Council, in general, although there is no legislative initiative, It's important to keep that in mind. It's like it's the host of the current subscription. She's the one who settles, divides, etc. After I left the ministry, work began, as the senator knows, on a new subscription project. They're right now... One project is in the Seym, the so-called one. The sealing subscription, and the second project, related to PIT and KRUS, is in preparation as I hear from ministerial announcements. And that's all I can say to the senator about the question. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, and then you...]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. I don't host subscription projects anymore. [[You lost, you lost.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u24	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, and then Mr. Senator Slugocki. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: My project lost. Yeah, my project lost.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u25	It's a shame you lost because we were rooting for you. But I don't see any problems with the notification. The notification certainly did not concern transparency of money flows, etc. I'm sure that notification wasn't about that. And I have a question for you about money. What's the public television deficit... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: According to the information given...]] Wait, wait, wait. I have one more question. What is the deficit, which is the amount of public television needed today? That's the first question. How much does the president of public television Jacek Kurski make, how much does the vice president and antenna directors make?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u26	I'm responding to the knowledge I have. Senator, the company announced a deficit of PLN 180 million last year. These are publicly available data. They were through various industry portals and not only by the media reported after the company's financial statements. Probably due to a decrease in subscription revenues, the company will not be able to operate. We're talking about public television, and it requires the most money, because television technology is the most expensive. It will require more support at least this year than the licence forecasts. Perhaps President Kołodziejski will correct me. He knows it better, because he's up-to-date when it comes to talking to companies about their financial situation, but I think it's a few hundred million zlotys, it's a government of magnitude. That's more or less a hole, so in order to be able to carry out a mission... This is more or less a hole if there is no sealing of the subscription and increased influences still this year when it comes to public television. It is a hole, it must be emphasized, not coming from this company's fault, only from the collapse of the subscription system. This breakdown is visible in the statistics. I think that Mr Kołodziejski has shown this in the report and will possibly inform the senators on this issue. Second question... [[Earnings.]] [[The CEOs' earnings.]] Earnings. As far as the CEOs are concerned, the earnings are on... the bill provides forforks. As I recall, in the case of public television... Because these forks vary depending on the size of media companies, and that television is a large company in terms of financial turnover, that is in a higher category. And there are forks there, I think, from seven times the average salary to twelve times the average salary, as I recall... [[Voice from the room: Eleven times.]] ...or 11 times. We'd have to check the bill. Forgive me for not remembering this. The level of remuneration of the governors is determined at this lowest level, i.e. at the lowest possible level in the Act. [[Plus extras.]] Please? [[Plus extras.]] Extras? I don't think there's any additions to the CEOs. Maybe it's about the directors. As far as I know, the bill doesn't allow for any extras in these salaries... Unless by additions you mean, I don't know, service, car, secretariat, etc. [[Internships, bonuses...]] If I'm not mistaken, it's not there. The Act does not provide for this because, according to this law, these are not employment contracts, they are management contracts. Job contracts would, of course, provide for such solutions, Mr. Senator, but contracts, if I'm not mistaken, cannot anticipate them, because that would be contrary to the idea of a contract. They may have been like that so far, because before the contract law, there were employment contracts, but according to this new law and the transition of heads of public media from employment contracts to contracts... Well, these are solutions that can't go through there. [[Anything's allowed in the contracts.]] Please? In a contract? [[In contracts...]] No, because the bill specifies what could be in those management contracts. It's not exactly like that. And when it comes to directors' wages, I don't know that salary. [[I will ask the same question to President Kołodziejski.]] Please? [[I will ask the same question to President Kołodziejski because I want more accurate information.]] I see. I see. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u27	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki, and then Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, High Senate, I have three brief but fundamental questions in my assessment. First. How do you understand the public television mission? That's the first question. Second question. Do you see the difference between a public service public television mission and a mission of national media? And finally, the third question. Is what we see on the air today, in the programming sense, on public television, still a public mission, or is it already a mission of national media? Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u29	As far as the mission is concerned, it is specified in the Public Radio and Television Act. And here nothing changes. The National Media Council Act did not address this issue at all and did not change the understanding of this mission. So much for the mission. And what has been written down for the media, which have so far been called public, and still as separate companies are public media... The National Media Council was created as a body which has been mindful of the programme activities primarily of these companies and has also an impact on the personnel cast of the management of these companies, but only at the level of the boards, nothing below. That definition of mission, as I say, hasn't changed. Perhaps, due to the comments of the Programme Councils, certain accents may be shifted within this term. Surely greater attention is devoted to the latest history, as it appears from what I can see, see. If you're asking me about my assessment of the public television program, Mr. Senator, I'm going to say that, as you know, and you've been able to see from my various statements, I'm quite critical of certain actions. I see positive, big positive, but I also see, well, a certain crossing of boundaries that I personally prefer not to cross, and this concerns even the infamous disco polo case. Of course, disco polo enthusiasts also pay their subscription, so please understand that they also have, as recipients, the right to have certain elements of this very popular culture in public, national media. We can't just make it an elite message, because the whole society pays a subscription, and the whole society has the right to obtain certain content that it approves. [[As you can see from the influence...]] Please? [[No, no...]] No, but, Mr. Chairman, I didn't hear... [[No, I'm sorry...]] Excuse me... [[Society doesn't pay, because if it pays...]] [[Tusk called.]] No, but I assume, Mr President, that... I assume, Mr President, that your party's attempts to dismantle the subscription system have just ended, we're trying to rebuild it, and everyone will pay, so... But then everyone will be demanding and judging. Well, that's obvious. Although my personal opinion is that public or national media should act in such a way as to always give, so to speak, a level higher, to lift up the viewer, the listener, the recipient... I'm talking about the cultural sphere. And I always pay attention to the colleagues who run these companies. I was just talking to the president of Radio Białystok, who, as reported by the media, started reading biography from Monday... well, fragments of the biography of such a leading or largest figure, as regards disco polo in Poland, Mr Martyniuk, who comes from that area, Podlasie. So at the same time it's like a local hero, which is why it's a little understandable that Radio Białystok took this biography. I spoke to the president of Radio Białystok, who said that there was a big discussion in the radio itself on this subject or try it. They've decided to try for a couple of weeks to read this biography, and they're following the radio response carefully. And it's going to be a report that's going to be interesting to us in a broader sense. So far, as the radio's president has said, this does not come with criticism, but with appreciation. Well, like I said, I'd rather have the media pull up than... But also understand that recipients really also have the right to vote. As you understand perfectly well, the theatre also sometimes faces such dilemmas that it must sometimes give something that is very popular, or perhaps prefers something more ambitious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u30	Thank you very much. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] You want to ask, don't you? Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u31	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Marshal, I have a question: don't you think there's a correlation between the receipts from the subscription and the program offer? I think, among other things. About the publicity that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u32	I do not exclude such correlation, I just point out that the biggest drop in revenues from the subscription was under the government of Donald Tusk and the government of the Platform in public media. [[Yeah, but pay attention...]] Mr. Senator, this is about... [[Okay, but I don't question how you...]] In that sense... You just know how the system is disassembled... I'm sorry, first I answered politically, and now maybe I'll answer substantively. How the subscription system was disassembled, which I had a lot of pain over... And even as the President-in-Office of the Polish Radio, I sent an open letter to Prime Minister Donald Tusk, who at the time called for no subscription, suggesting that this is such a destruction of public media that it would have to be answered before the Court of State. And I wasn't afraid to do it... [[Sir...]] ...even though I was the premiere and even though I was the head of the radio at the time. And because this system has unfortunately been disassembled, it is very difficult to reinvent this system. This is probably the result of the problems that Senator Rulewski pointed out, with the preparation of the relevant law. Of course, when it comes to a project that was created under my direction, it was undoubtedly a failure, there is nothing to hide, because that is the fact. But also matter is very difficult. And in that sense, I agree with you. And that's what I've been explaining to public leaders all along. There's nothing to do with promotional campaigns like advertising, calls: pay your subscription. The most up to the subscription will convince the program offered by the public media, and what they offer for this subscription at all. Permission granted, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u33	One last question, if you'll allow me, briefly, in this context... Minister, can't you see the relationship between ratings and, for example, private advertising? I'm thinking advertisers. Please note, however, that despite what you said in this political dimension, the audience of public television... Public television was generally dominant when it came to news, public programs, Teleexpress, etc. Today, the ratings of these shows are falling to the head, to the neck. As I understand it, the advertising market is shrinking in this context too. Do you fear that, on the one hand, the lack of influence from advertisers and, on the other hand, the problem of downloadability of the subscription... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u34	As regards information about the decrease in audience, I would point out that their credibility is undermined by the Polish Television. Research will be carried out on a much bigger test, by research institutions, I stress, non-political, on a much bigger test, more so that, so to speak, which reflects the structure of the Polish society, also the territorial structure. Somewhere, I think, at the end of the year, we'll have these results. Then we will find out how it really is with ratings, but also with the listening of Polish Radio. This is the second area of such a very questionable area. Because Nielsen's ratings are telemetry-based and you can have reservations about the trial on which it's tested, the social trials, but as for the technique itself, it's not because telemetry shows actual viewing. Although, as I say, there are reservations about the rehearsal. And in the case of radio, there's no audiometry at all. There's only a survey, i.e. phone calls, questions like what kind of radio you've been listening to lately or last week, etc. This is actually a study of brand knowledge, not a study of radio listening. So this new study, which will be based not on surveys, but on tele- and audiometry, but also on a large social trial, which takes into account the entire structure of the Polish society, will be very interesting also due to radio results. Especially since the Radio Research Committee, which so far controls surveys, is a private venture of commercial radio companies. And if so, I apologize, but already on the example of the radio, it is clear that these are the same commercial radio companies that are interested in the results, because the division of advertising cake depends on it, de facto they define what the listening looks like on the radio market. It's kind of sick. But as I say, let's wait to check it out, then we'll know more. I can only repeat what I have already said: there is no better argument for national media or public media than a program that offers customers, i.e. the quality of this programme, etc., etc. [[I'm writing it down.]] As long as I'm head of the National Media Council, I'm gonna stick this in their head.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska and then Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u36	Thank you very much. Mr President, I attended the meeting of the Committee on Culture, where we adopted the report of the National Media Council and the National Council, and I saw something about the members of the National Media Council that... This is my personal pickup. I saw some confusion in answering questions, some regret about how small the remit of the National Media Council is, how small the influence of the state on anything that is happening on television at the moment. That's the impression I got. And that is why I would like to ask you a few questions as chairman. First thing: are what we have in Poland now, national media? So this goal that we've been presented and called, we've already achieved? Do we have these national media, or do we come to national media, or is it some abstract, inexorable pattern that we will be reaching over the years? I'm asking because it's like getting out of your knees, I mean. We get up, we get up, we don't get up yet. Second thing I'd like to ask you. You have very little authority, but you organized, among others. The competition for the president of the radio station and, as I understand it, you are responsible for this president. In my opinion... You just said how bad it was on TV in the days of the Civic Platform, and I believe that we now have the worst president of Polish television, who completely disassembled not only the television system, but also the program, because behind this president the program is so unbearable, so biased when it comes to information, and at such a weak level when it comes to educational input or entertainment, that it simply cannot be seen, as the fact that the audience is leaving public television and there is a declining curve here. I may still have a question, but I would ask you to address it for now, which is the issue of national media. Do we already have them or don't we have them? And to the other case concerning the President, because you are responsible for him. Zoom in on whether there were better people or if that was the only choice you had and why Mr. Kurski is president of television. And the third thing, even though I'm gonna ask you this later, I'm gonna be asking questions about this helplessness... what kind of influence do you have right now as to control powers? Because I didn't find anything in the report about what you did in control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u37	May I, Mr. Marshal? You said it yourself, that's your opinion. All opinions, as you know, are allowed. I won't argue with opinions. As for the facts, it's... I have a different opinion than you, so... As regards the facts regarding the powers of control, the Act and the Articles of Association, in this case the Polish Television, provide for the need to provide the National Media Council with a number of information, reports, including financial information, not only such but mainly financial information, so we get such information and reports. They are available to all members of the National Media Council. And, as you know, there are also two representatives of the opposition clubs of the Civic Platform and Kukiz15... [[Oh!]] I don't know why you don't like it, Senator, but yes, there are representatives... [[Strong opposition.]] ...oppositional clubs and have access to all this information. [[We were impressed.]] And that's a clear advance on what's been going on, Mr. Senator. This is a great progress, because so far the opposition has not had any place in bodies supervising public media, of course outside the SLD, and had no access to any information from these media. So this is it, Mr. Senator, but progress. I'll insist on my... [[The SLD was at the National Council.]] Please? [[And that was the opposition.]] That's what I'm saying, except for the SLD. Mr President, I just pointed that out. It was a rather strange opposition that lasted in the coalition with the Platform and with the PSL, in terms of public media, for several years and before with the Democratic Union and the Union of Freedom, when there was no Civic Platform. He's an ally very tried. In addition to the government coalition, i.e. Whether he was in it or not. There was a media coalition so formed and it didn't allow other political groups to know, to know about public media, and I'm not talking about places in surveillance bodies anymore. That was the case, but of course you can have your opinion whether there has been a good change here or a bad change. In my opinion, the good, because for the first time the opposition, opposition clubs are guaranteed a place in the Council of National Media, i.e. they have an insight into public media. Since you ask, Senator, whether this is national media or public media, whether this is an investigation process, I can answer you in this way: the Act on the National Media Council has not transformed public media, but has so far grouped 3 main media, namely radio, television and PAP, in a group that is subject to substantive and personal supervision in terms of boards, the National Media Council. And in this sense it's a step this way, in this direction. As far as substantive supervision or substantive monitoring is concerned, we want to conduct this substantive monitoring and we will be conducting it with the new programme councils set up this year in the various media stations. In the autumn, we will probably be collecting from them the first assessments of what it looks like to carry out missions in individual media companies. I don't want to rely on random listening... Because whether it's a country or me or someone accidentally... [[Cell phone signal]] Excuse me, I have my phone on because of the vote in the Sejm. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. I don't want to rely on random information that one of us is going to turn on the TV. If he turns on the radio and gets one show... And yet these media often broadcasts 24 hours a day. So you have to have reliable monitoring so you can actually evaluate how they work. After this monitoring has been done by individual programming councils, we will be smarter to this extent. The National Council also conducts some monitoring. The National Media Council has neither the means nor the possibility of conducting separate monitoring, and in a situation where programme councils and the National Council do so, there is no need for such monitoring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u38	If you don't mind, I'll just ask. Please specify... You don't really have any competence, in my opinion, and that's why it was a question, but you have some control powers plus competitions, right? And I think you'll agree that... tell me if these competences are illusory and they don't lead to anything, because the state... We have been very critical of this bill, that it is absolutely unnecessary. Convince me that she was even needed for anything, for example. The fact that you are going to tell us how you are implementing the statutory control powers of the National Media Council as regards the subject matter of your action. You're welcome. Please give some examples at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u39	I don't think I can convince you, Senator, but I'll try. Well, I have already said that the information about financial matters of these companies, the answers to our questions about personal or programme issues that appear in particular media, the answers to this are material and are also a form of control. Well, it's obvious, because that's what all members of the National Media Council have access to. It's not like I can sweep something under the rug because something's uncomfortable. No. This is public knowledge and it can be used publicly and is used, even in the statements of a member of the National Media Council, Mr Braun, who most often presents a different point of view than mine on various matters that happen in public media. And the recipient can evaluate the weight of the arguments, see what's on the screen or on the ether, and assess who's right about us. Isn't he right, etc. And that's what's good about itself. So since you're talking about me convincing you that we have control powers, I'd like to say that we're even a little out of the bill, because for example. There are no cast competitions in the bill, and the competitions are public. I remind you that for the first time the competitions were public, available live, on the Internet, everyone could see all the candidates. The entire interrogation phase was available, there were no exemptions. The competition was over and the state itself could assess whether or not he won the best candidate in the TV competition. You were able to assess for yourself whether you won the best candidate in the radio competition or not. Before that, when the supervisory boards organized this competition, if I remember correctly The radio competition was partially annulled by the National Council. This was the transparency and democratic competition system. [[Everyone's seen it.]] [[But how...]] No, but I'm saying... But everyone saw you cancel the radio contest... [[Please don't tell us you're here.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and here nothing was voided, everything was in front of the eyes...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rybicki, then Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u41	Mr. Marshal... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Mr. Marshal...]] Mr President, first of all, with your statement on Prime Minister Donald Tusk... ♪ When he spoke ♪ ♪ As I recall ♪ In terms of subscription and its purpose, meaning, it was not yet prime minister, and during the premiere period, criticizing the solution itself, it pointed to the need to finance public media, but maybe another method, from the state budget. It's part of the polemics. As for the proceeds from the subscription and the imputation of this inheritance to Donald Tusk alone, I would like to draw your attention to the statement made by Prime Minister Gliński, who spoke about the possible absolution against non-paying subscriptions. I'm guessing that's what's throwing away the subscription payments, too. I'll get to the questions. I have two questions. Mr President, why do you think... because, by quoting the report you are firming, you have said or formulated such a theory that media order should be based on national media or public media, and yet the basis for democratic media governance is the independence of all media, pluralism and freedom of all media: both private and public and social. What makes you say that? The second issue concerns the formation of public media bodies, including programme councils. This is the competence of the Council, although I will remind you that the Constitutional Tribunal questioned last December the novelty of the Act on Radiophony and Television in the area where the power to shape councils belonging to the National Council is delegated to the Council of National Media. This issue was described in the Court's judgment as non-constitutional. However, I will ask the president whether it is true that there is no person on the public media programme boards who represents NGOs, which in the past was a clear practice, although we know that these councils include political activists, even ministers, as in the Polonia Television Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u42	Mr. Senator, I need to start by correcting things. Well, it's called... I mean, I didn't talk about media governance in the sense that it's about the entire market. Because I agree with you, it is clear that media order means freedom of action in this market for all media actors. So if that's how you understand it, then I'm making it right that I don't think it's true or claim it, maybe you misunderstood it, maybe I've misunderstood it. As for this December novel challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal, it did not concern the National Media Council, because it did not exist at the time, it did not comment on the National Media Council, but spoke on the transfer of powers of the National Radio and Television Council to the Minister of State Treasury. And that's what the Court questioned. In my opinion, the transfer of powers was only temporary, as it was. However, we have spoken from the beginning, and of course it is impossible to maintain in the long run, which was also amended by the Act on the National Media Council in August... in July last year. Now remind me of the next... I'm sorry, but I didn't write it down...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u43	Mr President, of course I know that, along the way, this competence was temporarily held by the Minister of the Treasure, but these competences actually went to the National Media Council and it was the Media Council... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: But there was no Council of Media... And then they hit? In this bill? That's right.]] Yes, sir. And that in my question was so important that I asked the president to shape the bodies of media companies... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: I just wanted to...]] ...including programming councils where there's no room for representatives... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Yes, programme councils...]] ... non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u44	Except that one point. The Court didn't comment on the National Media Council, so please take this... [[He agreed not to speak, he spoke about the unconstitutionality of the law about...]] About transferring these powers to the treasure minister. And about... [[Yes, sir.]] ...the National Media Council, it is not known how the Court would say at the moment when this council is formed and from the candidates of the power camp, and from the candidates of the opposition camp. I don't know, but we're not prejudging that. With regard to the powers of the National Radio and Television Council, it is not necessary to elect the authorities of these media to take care of the public interest, because this is the basis of the Court's reasoning. That's not the Constitution anymore. Because this record of public interest in the media is based on constitutional records and constitutional powers of the National Radio and Television Council. But if we were to follow such a reasoning that the right to appoint authorities arises from this, then why not appoint commercial media authorities? After all, it is about public interest throughout the media market, not just in public media. And as for the programming boards, Mr. Senator, here is the same system that has always been used, i.e. since the beginning of the Act on Radiophony, that 2/3 of the seats in the programme boards are filled out of office by candidates of parliamentary clubs according to a certain parity depending on the size of the club. That's two-thirds of the seats, and the programming boards are 15 people... so here we have a political differentiation parity in the board. 1/3 was previously established... the National Council or at the moment the Media Council on this 2/3 is just a notary who signs the indications of parliamentary clubs. One third of the seats were once filled by the National Council, and at the moment it is filled by the National Media Council. There are representatives with recommendations from various social, not political, but social associations. So I don't understand... 5 seats shall be filled as indicated. Where these people, members of the council, are from, is public because these recommendations are revealed. So I don't know why you're convinced, Senator, that... [[After the impact assessment...]] Please? [[After the impact assessment.]] No, no, no. If you are talking about the fact that you are on the Programme Council of Polish Television... The Member is from the recommendation of her own Members' Club within these Two-thirds of the club's staff. I myself was on the Polish Radio Programme Council in the previous term of this programme council and I had the honour of sitting there, without being a Member or a politician, for example. next to Mr Rafał Grupiński, directed there by the Civic Platform Club. I see no change in this appointment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich, and then Mr. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u46	Thank you very much. Minister, you used the wording, said the National Council, that the National Media Council is a notary, but... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: On this matter.]] ...on these issues, but its main role is what you referred to at the very beginning, which is a control function. Many of the standards that we introduced after 1989 have broken down. For a long time you have dealt with these matters, I only for 2 years with the giving of the Solidarity of Krakow's television centre as head of the information department, so as to introduce the principles of journalistic objectivity there. This journalistic objectivity on public television, especially in information programs, especially in the third channel of television, unfortunately fell down the cottage of cards. How do you feel about the situation, the very precise situation in which TVP3 journalists and editors and public television news programs engage politically and publicly with their political views, what was just unimaginable in our time when we took over television from Communists? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u47	Mr. Senator, as you have noted, Thank you for noticing this. I deal with media for many years. The situation that has been in the media for many years, in which all televisions Let's focus on TV. This is TVN, Polsat and TVP, they had the same political narrative and the same message was unhealthy in my opinion. At the moment, there is no such uniformity of communication, which in itself I consider to be good, regardless of the many mistakes that may be made and on the side of commercial media, and on the side of public media. This general assessment of mine does not preclude the fact that different behaviours or programmes we can and should judge extremely critically and with certain phenomena to fight or counteract them. Generally speaking, when we are dealing with different television narratives in the media market, I think it is good. [[That's not what I asked, Minister.]] Did you ask... You want me to judge... [[About a certain standard...]] You want me to evaluate a particular journalist or program. [[No. I want to ask...]] No, that's not what I'm gonna do... [[...about the evaluation of the phenomenon.]] ...because that would be... Later, you would resent me for interfering with journalistic independence. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind ad vocem...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u48	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u49	I do not expect you, Minister, to evaluate a particular journalist. I expect... [[You guys have standards.]] Sir, I'm asking you how you feel about the collapse of standards on TVP3 and public television news programs where journalists who don't have the right to go public with their views... [[You guys have standards...]] ...but they're flaunting them. And I can give you a few examples, but it's not about examples, it's about standard as such.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u50	Let me repeat: with regard to the media coverage of television concerning you, there was such a suggestion in this question. First of all, this political, publicist layer, I consider the change in the fact that there is a differentiation of the right, which is beneficial for the recipient, who can compare and assess the quality of the arguments. Regarding the violation of standards by individual journalists or behaviours in individual programmes, which should not take place by the journalist I agree that they should be corrected by the superiors of such a journalist. He should be paid attention. And just so it's not that... don't get the idea that I'm pushing these things away a little bit, but I would also like to point out that the management is responsible for all the activities, including programming activities, specific programmes and the behaviour of journalists. Just as the management of TVN and Polsatu can not be exempted from this responsibility And when it comes to standards, we've been able to observe them a lot of times. In the same way, the management board is responsible for the activities on public television, the directors or the heads of the editorial board. We, as the National Media Council, can observe some deeper processes and possibly intervene on specific issues, which, as the senator knows, has already happened on my part. I sent questions letters to media heads, also on very specific personal issues, but in general they are responsible for the quality of the programs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Czarnobaj and then Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u52	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The tasks that the National Media Council has to carry out include, as it is written here, defining a strategy of joint action for national media and ensuring the integrity of their work. Could you tell me what your work has been in order to ensure the integrity of the work of Polish national media over the last six months? That's the first question. And a second, small matter. Mr. Chairman, here's the question: could you reveal the scenes... Because it's always attractive about personal matters. How did you get President Kurski fired this morning and then... I don't know who affected you. Did you do it on your own initiative? Because he was president again in a minute. I would ask that you, as a matter of transparency, present the backgrounds of this super interesting situation, which should be described as an example of transparency of the election of presidents of Polish television, national television, as an academic example of how to act in the election of presidents of public companies, especially in the case of media. Could you reveal these scenes? As much as you can, of course. [[And the feelings that accompany...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u53	I have nothing to hide, Senator. I would remind you that President Kurski took part in the competition as the president cancelled. This decision has not changed. There was only a time limit for the implementation of this decision. He took off from the position of the cancelled president, which certainly did not make it easy for him to take part in the competition. Undoubtedly, he had a worse position than other contestants, and you were able to assess it yourself. In my personal assessment, President Kurski was the best candidate in the competition... [[disturbance in the room]] And in a transparent way, he won this contest. Everyone could watch the candidates' speeches and evaluate them. If you have had another favorite, then please make it clear who was the other favorite, because I, as a media man for many years, was even surprised that he had such weak competitors in this competition. I'm sorry to say that. It would be better if the level of competitors was higher. [[He didn't take off.]] And besides these scenes, you asked... [[Once again, one of the main tasks of the Council, which the Minister directs, is to ensure...]] Oh, integration... [[With this integration, let's just drop it.]] Yes? [[You can see how you integrate the media. You are doing this very well and that is something that needs to be said, but I am talking about a point that says that the role of you as a council firm or the role of the whole board is to ensure the integrity of the work of public media. Could you give some examples of how you have affected this integrity over the last six months? Because this integrity is great and I would like to know, Minister, what is being done to achieve such a high degree of reliability of public television.]] Mr. Senator, you're ironic, of course, but... [[No...]] ...I'll answer you seriously. [[Minister, I'm really saying this with conviction and care.]] I see. [[It's okay.]] My conviction is... [[Different? Well, that's okay.]] Such freedom of speech, among others. We fought. An element of this integrity... As I said, the quality of the program is told by the management, management, etc. There are now three instruments for verifying this integrity on the part of the National Media Council. They were partially used last year. One of them is competitions for the cast of the CEOs of these companies. Like I said, it's already been done on TV. It started last year on the radio, and it started this year. The second element was the speeches in cases that aroused some media emotions, asking for explanations, addressed to the board of directors, to the heads of these companies. And this is undoubtedly an element affecting the reliability of the action, because these companies know that they are being observed and that certain things that can be perceived as unreliable are being examined and explained. And the third element that did not yet apply last year, but which we are using this year, is the monitoring of the execution of missions conducted, among others. by the programming boards of these companies. Only in the autumn will we know the first results. This will undoubtedly be in the 2017 report. [[Mr. Marshal, just one more question.]] [[And Mr. Fedorovich?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u54	If you don't mind, Minister, I'd like to ask you something so that I can do it twice in the same... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Waldek, please. ...He didn't speak. Would you mind writing to the Minister? 'Cause I understand that the Minister doesn't have to remember that. Do you want me to give us all the statements to the companies for clarification in matters of doubt? This will give us a picture of the issues in which you have been asking for this reliability of the work of national media.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u55	Mr. Senator, these are open cases, so obviously there's no secret here. [[Okay.]] If this is the will of the Senate and the Marshal, we will of course provide this information, but this information is already available to all members of the National Media Council, including members representing the Civic Platform and Kukiz15. But, of course, if the marshal asks for it, we will, of course, deliver it. [[Minister, just one comment. I, of course, can speak to the Member of the Kukiz party15...]] No, you're welcome. If you're a marshal... [[We have this meeting to dispel any doubts.]] Good. I declare that if your marshal goes to the National Media Council, of course... [[Senator.]] [[Senator.]] [[The senator's asking for it.]] Then please, Mr. Senator, perform... [[I'm performing right now.]] ...for me in this matter and I will answer you in writing... [[Minister, once again, I would like to say...]] As well as the Members... Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Just so we're clear... As well as Members of Parliament, perhaps the most, perhaps the most... [[Mr. Marshal, can you draw the attention of the Minister to tell us what the procedure is on this matter? Well, I'd like to say...]] But I know the procedure. If the senator comes forward, I'll answer. Just like I said... [[It's just...]] ...for the parliamentary speeches that are directed to me. I have the most correspondence in media matters with Mr Furga. And of course, I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u56	Mr. Chairman, if you're a senator... The senator has the right to ask for a written reply during the debate. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Yes? You're welcome.]] Yes. [[Yes, please...]] [[Krzysztof Czabański, Chairman of the National Media Council: I would be the only one asking that under the protocol...]] Yes, of course, the Senate Office... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański:...to answer this specific question. Okay?]] The law firm will take care of it. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: So that it is not that I avoid questions or that I answer them.]] The next question will be asked by Senator Fedorovich and then by Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u57	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I learned from your former Member, Mr Kaminski... I'll play it for you, and we'll have a question in a minute. And all of Poland will see it because we have cameras. [[Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz presents a video recording on his mobile phone]] There you go, this is Krakow, meeting on Sunday at 3 p.m. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Kraków?]] In Krakow, on the market, Senator Klich, all opposition parties... This is where I show the panorama. This panorama shows that there are several thousand viewers... Well, I don't want to overreact either. But at least 5,000. Of course, I don't watch Three, because this program is impossible to watch, but I let go and found out that at the time there were dozens of people in Cracow who actually had nothing to say. How does it apply to what you say we pay a subscription that I pay that news TV, the Three, is doing propaganda for the only ruling layer, which is for the PiS? That's the first question. Second question. Minister, we had a meeting here... For the first time in the history of democracy in Poland If I'm wrong, please correct me. The minister preparing the bill prepared it for himself. Have you ever heard of such a case? I asked you a question. And it's in the senate protocols, you can look at them. If you would be the head of the National Media Council, but of course you replied that life would show. How do you feel about this kind of political activity? Because it seems to me that such a thing in the history of Polish democracy after 1989 has not happened yet. I call it the puriazum. Kuriozum I'm explaining it to colleagues who may not understand it. This is defined as something or a peculiar phenomenon that is astonishing by its unusualness or strangeness. That's it. About Mr. Kurski... It's already been done, so I'm not gonna have to deal with it anymore. Oh, and my last... It's already under polemics. As you know, I am a man of solidarity, but also of the theater. What they've got to offer to the head of the media, the editors of the warden... It is up to them to shape people's tastes. There's no problem in the open market for something like disco polo to exist. This is a beautiful movement that is directed to the simple people, for whom there must be simple signals, textual, etc. And if the ax swelling is the head of the editorial board, then it directs its program to the ax of the swells, that's the word that I invented, but it defines roughly what level we're talking about. We people who are serious about culture, but we have to form tastes somehow. I don't have, God forbid, anything against my friend Martyniu from Podlasie, but I remind you that there are special disco polo programs on almost every television... [[Yeah, there's a whole disco polo channel.]] Yeah, there's this channel, and you can watch this channel. It's, of course, part of some polemics. Now please answer the questions I've asked. Including the question of manipulation, which I witnessed and witnessed by many Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u58	Mr. Senator, I'll start from the end. Well, there's no polemics between us. I made it clear that I was also in favour of always raising a higher eye... Disco polo, of course, may be in public media, but on the basis of the puria that you mentioned in a different context. And now, by going to that puriozum you mentioned, I would like to thank you for the fact that you believe that I am capable of carrying out a bill in the Sejm, voting it out, implementing it, obtaining the approval of the Senate and of the President. That is not the case. It was the Sejm who voted this bill, then the Senate and the President signed it. So that I thank you for your appreciation, but it's really not that I wrote the bill for myself... [[Voices from the room: No!]] [[Of course not.]] Excuse me, this bill was being processed at the Sejm in the committees. And the third thing you said... Mr Senator, Mr President, I treat her just as much as the senator just said. As a matter of inquiry. Besides, I understand that the National Council, which conducts such continuous monitoring and has various things to do, will, if so, take care of it... Yes, I know what you're talking about. I'll have that, Mr. Senator, as part of this background check. If you had e-mailed it to me... And I'd like a link from TVP Info. Because, as I understand it, your question was about this relationship. Yes? And then you can compare both materials. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] So that I declare that just as much as the case you brought up with the senator, so will I explain... [[It's more like a...]] ...to the National Council. [[Yes.]] Thank you, Mr Kołodziejski, for taking care of this. Then I'll concentrate on... [[I am now satisfied with your opinion on this matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u59	President Klich in correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u60	In corrigendum mode, because my name was called by Senator Fedorovich... [[Voice from the room: But untwisted.]] ...but untwisted. [[Senator Bogdan Klich presents the photograph on the tablet]] And this photograph shows that there were about 10,000 people on the market in Krakow at 3 p.m., because we are talking about this. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: I understood what the senator said. That's what he's gonna do...]] Okay. 10,000 people. In his modesty, Senator Fedorovich lowered a little bit of the number. That was okay. 10,000 people. Thank you very much. [[Senator Fedorovich knows the literature, but math...]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, are there any other questions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u61	I'm afraid so. A lot, I'm afraid. [[Voice from the room: But we're following...]] Yeah, I follow all the time. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, then Mr. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that this definition that Senator Fedorowicz referred to, saying that this is the definition of the puriazum... I do, Mr. Senator, I do. I know a little bit about theology. That's the definition of a miracle. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: What?]] That's the definition of a miracle. Miracles in theology. That's the definition of a miracle. [[Voice from the room: Platforms.]] And I have two questions for you. First of all, Mr. Minister of Heritage and National Culture Piotr Gliński informed the National Media Council. That he delegates to 2 supervisory boards, including the Polish Radio Pomerania and Kujaw, his 2 representatives, and announced that he was posting the remaining twenty representatives of the minister. And the Law, which was adopted by the votes of the PiS in 2016, does not provide for such authority of the Minister, since the only authority empowered to appoint and dismiss the public media authorities is the National Media Council. What's going on here? That's the first question. And second question. Mr President, however, this situation with Jack Kurski's appeal and then his appointment raises additional questions. Therefore, I have a very specific question. In connection with Jack Kurski's appeal, were you summoned by the President of Jarosław Kaczyński and did he change the decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u63	The first question concerned supervisory boards. The Minister of Culture and National Heritage is now a representative of... He is, as it were, the owner of all media companies, which was the function of the Minister of State Treasury. The Minister of State Treasury either on the basis of a law, or previously in accordance with a certain custom, has delegated his representatives to supervisory boards. At the moment, the legal situation, as the senator noted, does not authorise the Minister of Culture to delegate his representatives to supervisory boards and he does not delegate his representatives. He addressed the National Media Council with nominations to certain supervisory boards, you listed one of these advices, presented one candidate for these advices. This concerned Radio PiK, Pomerania and Kujaw, and so-called. a large radio, i.e. Polish Radio here in Warsaw. The National Media Council shall consider such applications each time and either consider them or not, it shall be an autonomous decision of the Council. That's from the provisions of the bill, as the senator rightly pointed out. In my opinion, as President of the National Media Council, the Minister, who is the owner of media companies, has the right to apply, but I stress, for the supervisory boards of these companies. It would be strange if the ownership supervision had no representatives, i.e. candidates approved for qualifications and this recommendation by the National Media Council, on the supervisory boards, which on a daily basis exercise ownership supervision over these companies. And in a substantive sense, I agree with the Minister's speech. And when it comes to details, concrete, whether this candidate is suitable, it's every candidate. I think two such decisions have been made so far, as I remember, concerning the Radio PiK and so-called. big radio It is assessed by the National Media Council, its qualifications, its preparation. And to answer your second question, I'm going to say that everything you've said has nothing to do with reality.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Augustine, and then Mr. Senator Vistula.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u65	Minister, we argued quite strongly when these laws were discussed here. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: I remember, Mr. Senator.]] I had the impression that we'd split up a little bit in discord. But today, when we recall your words and observe the results... Today you'd have to, I hope, with a little shame, admit it to me. You are, to some extent, the institutional face of the so-called. national media whose level has fallen, whose objectivity has fallen. Yesterday, people chanted in my village a-te-le-wi-zja twa-mie that public television, national is lying. That is the result of what you praised here. I would ask you to take this into account, tell me how you judge these purposes and their execution. That's the first one. And the other one... I must tell you, there are various institutions reporting here. If you were to reject from your report what concerns powers, what concerns the past, these annexes, this would fit into three pages. And all this cost more than PLN 322 thousand. Again, I would say, do you think that made any sense at all? However, were we right to say that the appointment of the National Media Council is completely unnecessary? Because the transfer of these powers... Why? Without that money, these cases would have been done the same or better. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Mr. Senator... Yes, Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u66	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u67	Mr. Senator, just as we didn't agree then, we continue this disagreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u68	Senator Wczyła, then Senator Żaryn. If he comes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u69	Mr President, listening to your information, I have the impression that this is not information from the 2016 National Media Council, but comparative information A comparison between the National Media Council and the media at the present time and the situation before 2015. But I don't think that's what it was about, Mr. Chairman. You are very happy to refer to such comparisons, and you answer the question of a decrease in audiences and audiences in one sentence: data is unbelievable. In this connection, I have this question: on what grounds, why and who, apart from President Kurski and those whose ratings and listening data are basically compromising, considered that these data that are scrolling through Poland are incredible and on what basis do you think that these data are different? And yet, even if you treat this data this way, do they not disturb the advice of this information, that the decline in audience and audience may be a real decline? And if that is so, are you not wondering that there may be some reason in public criticism that concerns national media? The criticism of this national mission, which is presented in such a way that the nation simply does not want to hear about this mission or this mission. And a second reservation that is often repeated After 2015, you got rid of the media of at least 200 journalists, which so reduced the quality of the public media programs that, well, they are simply not attractive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u70	With regard to the comments made to the information submitted to Parliament, yes, there are indeed references to the situation, which is understandable when we write about the newly created institution. In my opinion, it was necessary. Well, the senator might consider it a mistake. In my opinion, it was necessary to refer to the state in which the Council was set up, in order to justify the need for this advice. But as I say, Mr. Senator, of course, you can judge it differently, I'm just explaining the origin of these threads about the past, the description of the state of things. As for the audience and the ratings you are talking about, and on what basis are the results given by Nielsen challenged... They're being questioned. This is the result of this analysis, which I know, prepared by the Polish Television. In view of the sample chosen for this telemetry by Nielsen, due to the composition of this sample, it is not representative for the Polish society. And that's the main charge. It's also about the size of this test, because it's a very small test, as you know very well, Mr. Senator. So these are the two main reasons: this non-representation as well as the size of this sample. These are the reasons. But if, in further studies, those that signal that they will be done, tele- and audiometrics repeated certain downward trends in viewing and listening, it would undoubtedly be a serious alarm signal. If such trends were to be confirmed, it would undoubtedly be a serious alarm signal for us as the National Media Council, telling us to look very carefully at what is happening, in the programming sense, the programme offer and the quality of the programme, in the public media. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u71	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u72	Mr President, however, I have asked whether the Council is concerned about whether this information is being reached, that this decline may be due to the poor quality of this national mission, but also to the fact that the public media have disposed of many experienced journalists.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u73	As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Senator, most of the people you mentioned, about 200 people have left on their own initiative... [[But they're gone.]] ...not because the media got rid of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u74	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn, and then Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I have a few questions, three questions which generally express my request for an opinion this time. First question asking for an opinion. Namely, or because of the fact that you rightly mentioned that the National Media Council is more representative than any other body previously involving a broadly understood relationship between recipients and media, you do not think that the National Media Council, which is in its shape, should take some action And if so, what is the question about the security of journalists? At the moment, it is no longer an emergency, but an increasingly recurring issue. And I have the impression that it will repeat itself, because this is the doctrine of a significant part of the opposition, which I understand is an out-of-law action, including a violation of journalists' physical integrity, which also violates the ability of journalists to carry out their duties... You can have different opinions, you can consider TVP Info as a party TV, that's expressing an opinion that is allowed. However, it is not allowed to call for brutal behavior or simply rude behavior, regardless of who takes it. And since opposition parties are not interested to stop encouraging this type of action, the question is whether the Media Council would not be able to do so. And Mr. Jerzy Braun should be actively involved as well. That's the first line. [[George Braun?]] The second point concerns the mission. Namely, undoubtedly everyone is happy that there is TVP TV History that is TVP Culture. But here we also touch on the issue of subscription and in general this weakness in financing public media. It seems to me that there should be a clear new quality for regional stations, both radio and television. In the context of historical policy, do you believe that today this regionality and the maintenance of regional history is at a good programme level, or could it be strengthened? Due to the building of Polish patriotism, this is extremely important. TVP History and TVP Culture can't handle it themselves because they don't have the means or the ratings. That's the second question. And a third. I happen to be here addressing Senator Rybicki. A member of one of these councils, namely the Polonia Television Programme Council. I therefore have a question arising from our Senate position on this issue. In fact, and Belsat TV, and Polonia Television largely depends on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and on the resources held by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the case of the Polonia Television it is especially, I think, an unfortunate situation, but not because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not want to deal with TVP Polonia, just because the TVP Polonia can potentially, but does not, is not able to, be a medium for 1/3 Poles living outside the country. Do you not see as President of the National Media Council any special task for yourself as President in support of this part of the audience who live outside the country and who should not be excluded or excluded from the possibility of receiving the Polish transmission at the level of information, culture, history, everything associated with this broad concept? The TVP Polonia certainly wants to do this, but in this formula it is currently in, it is certainly not a sufficient tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u76	I'll start with the third case, Senator. I agree with your opinion on the impact on the Polish environment outside the borders, that is, not so much impact as reaching these environments. We're trying to do this in conversations with the head of media companies... After all, we have in particular in the East large groups of Poles, there is Radio And we're gonna do it. The very formula of TVP Polonia probably needs to be changed, but it must be work inside the TV. We as an external body inspire it, we talk about it, but the work itself must be done by them. I hope they will, especially when the financial situation of public television is stabilized. As far as this regionality is concerned, I will answer from the end. - That's right. this is a big lack, but we want to strengthen regional centres. If there's any money on TV, we're gonna want some of that money to be, maybe not formally, marked as money for regional centers, so that it doesn't happen that the head office on Voronicz, because a closer shirt to the body, will see its needs, not the needs of the regions. These regions have been deprived of financial opportunities, very stripped of financial resources, from material resources, as a result of which they have so far been so This has to change. The fact that they depended on the funds provided by the local and regional authorities, which in turn forced them to carry out a programme which was, as it were, indicated by the local authorities. This isn't how it's supposed to be done. I agree with the senator that the work of TVP History or TVP Culture, very good and necessary work, although these are niche channels... Mr President, we support them and we will support them because they are niche but very important channels. Of course, it must be supported by regional television, by showing small homelands, etc. We're in full agreement here. As regards the security of journalists of public media, and especially of Polish Television, this concerns mainly Polish Television at the moment. These incidents were regrettable for journalists of the Polish Television I would like to point out that we, as the National Media Council, have made a statement on this matter, appealing to politicians not to turn on such an atmosphere and such events, because this may happen. Knock off the door and get out of control. Unfortunately, members of the National Media Council recommended by the opposition clubs did not want to make such a statement with us, which worries me personally, but I can't help it. And as for Mr. Braun, his name is Julius. [[I'm sorry, of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u77	Thank you very much. Senator Ryszka, and then Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have such a brief question. When's the big media bill? Because as long as she's not here, it's hard to judge jobs at all... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Big, right?]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u79	Senator, the host of this project is the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. In practice, he prepares it, as we all know, Deputy Minister Paweł Lewandowski. According to the latest information I have from him, this is a case... any week now this project will be. It's gonna be a project... He's in some sort of arrangement phase. And he will, of course, also be subject to public consultation, as is apparent from the Ministry's assurances. That's all I know. As I say, the host of these next projects is the Minister of Culture, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. [[And here I am not mistaken that only then will it be possible to properly evaluate the National Media Council with such a bill?]] Will it be possible to... [[Appreciate your activities.]] That is to say, once stable funding is provided, we will be able to start quite rigorously demanding the quality of the programme. And, for example, The television frame, which will be created in autumn, will already be subject to quite a thorough assessment on our part. It's just a routine, and then it's a routine. 'Cause then it's gonna go away with what... She realizes that sometimes the CEOs explain their mistakes, but it is difficult not to give in to the financial argument that a given station, whether it be radio or television, cannot afford anything, that they cannot afford to create a program. 'Cause we know there's been some trouble with the subscription. If they are not there, then this argument will be dropped and the evaluation will be strictly substantive.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u80	Thank you very much. [[Cell phone signal]] Someone's phone is ringing. Senator Boris-Damięcka, and then Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u81	Thank you. Would you be kind enough to say... I'm here. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: No, no... I know, I just...]] Would you be kind to tell me what was the point of setting up the National Media Council, since you have taken over some of the powers of the National Radio and Television Council, the competences that the National Council had and, in principle, how do you read the Act on the National Media Council and the report or information about the competences of the National Radio and Television Council, you can see that you are almost duplicated? Unless it was a matter of such a unique, so to speak, event was the submission by the National Media Council in a sense of the Polish Press Agency and the appointment of the president of this press agency, which has not been done so far by the National Radio and Television Council. I'll admit I don't see... If you were polite to say in 2 or 3 points to convince me what is superiority, the advantage of the National Media Council over the body, which is called the National Radio and Television Council, since it has all these competences, most of these competences have been fulfilled... I'm not here to analyze whether it's better or worse, but it fills it up, and it's basically competent because it has traditions. I ask this because, as I read your bill, it seems so enigmatic, consisting of paragraphs containing one sentence, that actually interpretation can be completely arbitrary. That's the first question. And my second question. Don't you think it's about time? Since we have the National Media Council, To make a change to the Radio and Television Act? The point is that the members of the Programme Council should not appoint a parliament, i.e. parliamentary clubs, i.e. political clubs, but that members of the Programme Board should be appointed, as it was thought... At the time when the television company was founded, in the 1990s, the idea was that it would be a social, professional body, consisting of people who would be able to authentically advise individual antennas. However, when Parliament and the parliamentary clubs were given this council, it became a political council. And an additional question to this point: is the Public Media Council able to address this and bring about such a change? Because it has to be changed in the bill. Thank you. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Can, yes?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u82	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u83	Senator, as far as I'm concerned... Maybe I'll start with the other thing, with that extra question. Well, the National Media Council has no legislative initiative, just like the National Radio and Television Council, but that doesn't mean that we can't have an initiative of another kind and for example. encourage parliamentary clubs, parliament, the Sejm, the Senate or the President to take the legislative initiative. I agree with you that two-thirds of the seats of the Programme Council by parliamentary clubs are an anachronism that maybe... He's been functioning for a dozen years, as you've noticed... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Between 2000 and 2002 this change took place.]] This change... Later than the first law was created and companies were formed. I didn't remember that any more, but I'm sure it's what you say. The same is true with the entire construction of the National Council as a body primarily created by the world of politics, actually only by the world of politics. From the beginning, as a publicist, I was opposed to such solutions, especially the annual approval of the National Council by the world of politics, but for several years it all happened. Now we will have, in the autumn, the first experience with these new programming councils. We will see what the result will be, the fruitage of the work of these counsels shaped according to the system so far. If it turns out that they're too politically under pressure and they're too driven by it, instead of looking at the program, perhaps your idea will begin to germinate on the National Media Council. Indeed, it would be necessary to think of a possible attempt to modify or to propose an idea that modifies the solutions that have already been made. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: What about the first question?]] Remind me. I'm sorry, I started from the end and... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: My first question was whether you see the meaning in calling...]] Yeah, I'll tell you. It is about the differences between the National Media Council and the National Council. Well, there were two reasons, I mean one main... There were two reasons that led to the National Media Council project. One reason was that the National Radio and Television Council, generally speaking, was set up as an organ to regulate the media market, to be the so-called regulator of this market and to public entities, and commercial and social entities, because there are 3 types of entities according to the media market law. And it is not good when, in relation to some part of the media, in this case to some of the public media, the regulator has the power to appoint the authorities of these media. And that was the first condition, which is for the purity of the position... And there are no such powers for commercial media, of course, because by nature they can't have them. If he had, it would be putting everything on his head. Therefore, for the sake of clarity of the situation of the National Council, we considered that the function of the regulator must be cleared of the power of power. It might not like it, but it might not like it. I'm translating, that was the intention. And the second point is that the senator had already pointed out that we wanted the public media to be sort of mapped out. Meanwhile, electronic media were separate, the Polish Press Agency, with a very important role in public space, was separate. But we wanted it to be integrated. And these two main reasons have decided to set up and draft the National Media Council. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u84	The question you're asking is... Has the senator exhausted her questions? Yes? Senator, do you have any further questions? No. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I already asked the question.]] Now you're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u85	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Chairman... [[Yes, you're welcome.]] ...you have already mentioned in one of the answers that the situation of public television, as far as the state of finance is concerned, is not the best I don't want to say she's very bad. As the deficit reaches PLN 180 million after the financial year. We also know that the revenues from the subscription, which is the secret of the mill, are decreasing, that television advertising is getting cheaper and that this situation is hopeless, dramatic. Apparently, the president of TV Jacek Kurski borrowed a loan of PLN 800 million at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. I would like to ask you if it is true that this loan has been granted and for which purposes it has been granted. That's one question. The second question is more current, but there have already been issues in this discussion that go beyond the scope of the report. I would like to ask about the fate of the request made by members of the Kukiz club15, which was submitted to the National Media Council, and concerns the cancellation of the President of TV, Jack Kurski. When will this request be considered and what is its fate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u86	May I, Mr. Marshal? I'm answering. With regard to Mr Kukiz's request, because this proposal signed by Mr Kukiz has entered the National Media Council... It contains two elements. The first is to appeal to... I mean, in order to justify the appeal of President Kurski, it is a statement that his actions in the Opole case have caused material losses to public television. The second point in this proposal is that Mr Kukiz informs us that he has referred the matter to the Supreme Audit Chamber asking for a review on public television of whether there has been mismanagement or not. This matter has not yet been dealt with at the National Media Council. Although all members of the Media Council have received a request from President Kukiz That is why it is difficult for me to say what the council will decide. However, I would like to point out that, as far as the formal side is concerned, there is no special procedure at all for the examination of Members' requests or parliamentarians at all. The National Media Council is autonomous in these matters and if ordinary Mr. Kowalski I do not take into account anything here, neither Mr Kowalski nor Mr Kukiz wrote to us the conclusion that he thought that the President of Kurski should be dismissed, that in a formal sense it would be the same as that of the President. But I'm paying attention to the second element. If the National Media Council examines this proposal, then... 'Cause that's where the case is being referred to the Supreme Board of Control. If so, we actually, even if there were a majority in the Council that would like to consider this proposal, must wait in this situation for the determination of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Well, that's what it takes, like, to clean things up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u87	You have a voice, Senator Gazweda...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u88	Mr. Marshal, I just want to ad vocem. Because the president wanted to say that the council should wait for the findings of the Supreme Audit Chamber. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: That is my conviction...]] But there's no procedure for the council to consult... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: No, no...]] ...or wait for an opinion... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Of course there isn't.]] ...any other organ, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u89	Of course there's no procedure. All I'm saying is that if one of the members of the board reported this matter on the agenda of the National Media Council, I will personally present the position I have put forward. I cannot present the Council's position because there is no Council's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u90	You're asking Senator Gazweda a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u91	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! I, out of respect for the previous speaker, for an actor who has a very rich work, will not enter into polemics, but I am, I am, I am not, very embarrassed by the fact that here in the High House is the definition of the puriazum. This is indeed remarkable, because it reduces the level of debate. I would very much like to ask, with politeness, of course, and with respect... [[Okay, okay.]] ...to the senator so you wouldn't do such things. [[Okay, I promise I won't.]] On the other hand... [[Senator, you don't have a voice. Don't interfere.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry.]] [[Don't interfere, you'll have the floor. Please.]] Once again, I stress that out of respect, I do not want to enter into such a polemic, but I ask you to remain worthy. Before I ask you a question, let me draw your attention or quote a statement, I think everyone familiar with one of the main politicians of the Civic Platform in April 2008 is an archaic way of financing public media, a racket drawn from people; therefore, the government will seek the support of the President and the opposition for his abolition. And in May 2008, the same politician said... [[Donald Tusk.]] I'd like to say that we won't rest until... [[Mr. Senator, you have a minute to ask.]] Yes. [[I'd like to ask you a question.]] We will not change this extremely hypocritical system of racketeering to Poles. Mr President, do you think... how do you feel about encouraging not paying your subscription? How could that have done, what damage did it do? Because it is clear from your report that the budget revenue has been reduced by 50%. This caused the nature of public media to be tarnished, that they had to give up this missionary character. What could it have had, and what consequences did it have? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u92	As the senator rightly said, referring to the information, there was a financial clue after these statements by Prime Minister Tusk, because these were his statements. You quoted, as Prime Minister, not only in the election campaign, Mr. Senator, I will also refer to what you said. But already as prime minister. Well, my attitude towards this was already known at the time, because I was the President of the Polish Radio then and I made an open letter against the Prime Minister in this matter. Then there were stairs down. However, because the Platform government, despite the call from Prime Minister Tusk, did not pay the subscription, at some point started chasing these people for not paying the subscription, these stairs changed direction a little bit and began to receive subscription fees, and it was reinforced by the fact that the same government, which had previously called for non-payment, was punishing them. And here I will also refer to the senator who spoke about these matters. He was talking about the case. 'Cause I think that's what the senator said. Glinski, about the fact that he said that there would be an abolition, and that it certainly resulted in a decrease in subscription revenues. It did not cause, the National Council will present it. There is a record of an increase in subscription payments this year, but I do not want to take bread from President Kołodziejski, he will talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u93	Next question... [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] [[Wait a minute.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u94	Mr. Marshal, thank you. I'd like to correct. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, In a public debate in the Senate, such phrases are sometimes used to illustrate or to give a sentence that could be more specific to my relationship or to any senator. I wanted to... I have no intention of insulting anyone, but the word "kuriozum" which may... of course I understand that all senators know the meaning of this Latin word. Anyway, we're talking about a peculiar phenomenon here. But if I add that it can be interpreted as an astonishing surprise with its unusualness or strangeness, it gives the debate a timbre. So if you're hurt, I'm sorry, but... Excuse me. I'm going to use different terms to make my speech more understandable to those who don't... or... [[The voice from the room: After all...]] Goodbye.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u95	Senator Rybicki is also in correction mode. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u96	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm talking about subscription and history. I said, as for Prime Minister Tusk, that the statement was before the Prime Minister took office, but my corrigendum concerns something else, a second part of the statement in which I did not say that the speech of Prime Minister Gliński about the abolition against the non-payers caused, only could cause, and this is the fundamental difference. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: I understand, but I explain that it did not cause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u97	Mr. Senator Rulewski in what mode? [[Question, if you don't mind.]] You haven't exhausted Senator Gawada yet. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u98	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I volunteered twice. Thank you for giving me the floor. Today we accept information about the activities of the National Media Council. Mr President, when entering this discussion, the President showed the difference between the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council, he pointed to differences in competence and in the decisions they make. I have a question. This missionary character of television is also the fact that television carries out a historical, cultural mission, etc. What are the plans for the future, what will be the subject of new projects to strengthen the missionary character of television?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u99	At the moment, we are waiting for the so-called. Autumn routine by public television executives. This autumn framework can already be based on the expected higher financial impact, the financial power of public television, and thus may be more ambitious than the framework so far. It is clear that these thematic areas, of which the senator has said, must be strengthened. All I can say is that the information provided by the Polish Television Board shows that in the autumn the issue of a large historical series will begin, production only of Polish Television, and concerning the times of Kazimierz Wielki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u100	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to add a question about the Minister's opinion to this discussion, the questions that were raised in the previous round. I'll start by saying, if it's so good, why it's so bad. Here I have reports of various kinds, Freedom House organisations, Reporters Without Borders, the European Centre for Freedom, and also the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe. None of these bodies leaves a shadow of doubt in their opinion as to the assessment of media freedom, especially national media. Tell me something like that, Minister, you are a man of freedom, and you were very happy to read what you wrote about, what you were saying, what you were doing. Don't you feel uncomfortable about the fact that everyone around you is saying that there is no free media or there is a big attack on free media, and we, of course, say: Poles, nothing happened? Don't you feel uncomfortable as a man of freedom?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u102	Mr. Senator, let me start with a little correction of your speech. Well, that's not what everyone says. That's what those organizations that you referred to, which you quoted, say, are really saying, but the Polish Journalists Association says otherwise. If we refer to the organization, and the Association of Polish Journalists is an association, which is the largest journalistic association in Poland, so... Not to mention his tradition, his dissolution during martial law, his survival in the underground of these activists and the association itself. I was in charge of this association myself, and now, of course, I'm not, and I don't have that kind of relationship with them, except that this is the environment that I come from and... But anyway, their opinion is different. And if they don't like something, they make statements, just like the last press freedom monitoring center issued a statement about activities on the Polish Radio against a journalist who interviewed an important person from the government or the most important person from the government. Because there were concerns that perhaps the radio management or the programme director behaved not very professionally towards this journalist. But I have to tell you that this statement plus my question to the radio management explained the matter and it turned out that there was a misunderstanding between this journalist and the director of Programme 1 which was explained, and this journalist still, of course, as he should, is still conducting talks in the Signals of the Day. [[Talking in the O.R.]] So if there are events that suggest that there is some unauthorised interference in the work of journalists in these media, then of course... Anyway, Mr. Senator, perhaps you remember my various speeches... I will collect the documentation you requested, but you may remember my various speeches to the media leaders on matters that may have aroused, at least medialy, some controversy. But on the other hand, please remember one thing: journalists have their superiors, their editors, editorial directors, etc., and their work is evaluated. This job can be less professional or more professional. It's not like when a journalist broadcasts a radio, it's a sacred cow that's not under review. He's subject and he's got to be subject. But not political judgment, I agree with you. Professional evaluation by the superiors. And perhaps there will be some controversy about it. Well, that's life.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u103	The question is now asked by Senator Zdrojewska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u104	Thank you very much. You monitor, among others. employment and dismissal of workers, appointment of new workers. However, I would like to know about the exact data. Since January 2016, how many journalists have left public television, public radio, the Polish Press Agency and regional centres? I'd ask you to give me the exact details. Well, you have them, don't you? Because it's... Because I tried to find out at the committee meeting... Then please answer that neither the National Media Council nor the National Radio and Television Council is interested in this and does not have such data.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u105	No, of course we're interested, but I'm gonna ask for this exact data, and I'm gonna answer in writing, because my information relates to the spring of last year, when these things were very hot and they were created... I remember the Platform and the Modern were creating lists of journalists allegedly thrown out of public media. This list included about 200 names, if I remember correctly, and this list was not really covered because most of these people left at their own request, on their own initiative on public media. But if the senator asks me about all this time and a half, I'm gonna ask for this information from the head of the public media and, of course, I'm gonna answer the senator in writing. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I understand. However, I will point out that I asked such a question at the committee meeting and that it was possible to prepare.]] Senator, I'm very sorry, but the information is about last year, and you're asking me about a year and a half, which is another year. I'm really not prepared to answer that question. The information relates only to the last six months, from August 2016 to the end of December 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u106	Good. Otherwise, I'm gonna make a question. Did the state as members of the National Media Council have any interest in this and asked Mr Kursk such a question? I would ask for such data, whether it's from you or from the National Council. Whatever. I asked this question at the meeting of the cultural committee and I would like to point out that these data could have been obtained during that time. You know, the TV president used to come to these kind of meetings, and you could ask him about these things. He'd come to the cultural committee meetings. Right now, there's no one to ask that question. You say you've been working for six months and you haven't learned much yet. I would like this to be data for those who have left on the basis of an agreement of the parties or at their own request. If you need me, Mr President, I will make available to you data on those who have, in fact, been forced to leave at their own request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u107	I don't know how you can force someone to leave at your own request, but I accept what you're saying. As far as numbers are concerned, I will reply in writing as soon as I get an extract from the protocol. The point is not to confuse the questions and the necessary answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u108	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Minister! I have the following questions. Well, on 17 June the National Media Council adopted a resolution or made a statement, with which I fully agree. I am thinking here of unprecedented attacks on journalists, especially public television, and unfortunately with the participation of representatives of Parliament, including Members or politicians of the Civic Platform. I have a question for you. Does the council document all these incidents? In addition to a statement related to special harassment, aggressiveness, preventing certain persons from carrying out a journalistic mission, not only parliamentarians of the PO, but also other persons who do not perform public functions... Does the Council document such events, and does it have a thoughtful strategy, what to do next, and how to possibly follow the legal path, if the level of this aggression had increased and had some consequences of a nature, I would say, legal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u110	I hope this doesn't increase, Senator, but... [[Unfortunately, we don't know that.]] [[What did Michnik say?]] ...but of course we don't know that for sure. We called for the cessation of these practices in a statement you kindly mentioned. It's been mentioned here before, but I don't think your senator was there at the time. This came from a question from Senator Zarin. I'm just gonna remind you, unfortunately, under an appeal that was documented... Of course, the basis for this appeal was the documented incidents that the senator mentioned. This documentation shall be annexed to the minutes of the National Media Council. That was the basis of our statement. We didn't make a statement on a whim. Unfortunately, this statement was not signed by members of the Media Council, recommended by opposition clubs, which I regret. In my opinion, this is a testimony to the fact that a political game is beginning to cross certain boundaries that it should not cross. But that's my personal opinion, not the National Media Council's. That's what we said in the statement. What's next? We don't have the instruments to go on. If certain statements calling for violations of the law appear in non-public media, the National Council may be able to intervene, but ask the President. We don't have those instruments. And if there's a violation of the law, it's a state institution called upon to respond to it by public authority. Here, our actions are not decisive.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u111	The senator has another question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u112	I'd like to ask you something, Mr. Marshal. Well, in my opinion, some of these threats are criminal threats, so at this point we should consider... I'm not talking about a particular case here, but in my opinion, I'm talking about it as a long-term journalist. Some of them, unfortunately, were of such a nature. However, I have not heard that the relevant state institutions have taken action for this purpose. I will therefore clarify my question. Didn't the National Media Council ever wonder if, in the case of parliamentarians, the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate, because there are, for example, ethics committees that can deal with parliamentarians in this area... I'm not talking about the effect, it's just about taking action. I think it would be a good idea to ask the U.S. Attorney General to make sure that he's aware of the submissive units of the U.S. Attorney's office, because in my opinion, this is an assassination attempt. on one of the foundations of freedom of speech. If journalists are bullied, if aggression is shown against them, regardless of what anyone thinks about the journalist, about the station, or about the medium he represents, then in what reality. We're alive? In my opinion, this is a very deep and demanding response from state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u113	Mr. Senator, I agree with you and I take what you have said as an indication that we should consider this issue at the next National Media Council. But, as we know, criminal threats have also been encountered recently by Members, not just journalists. Apparently, there's no limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u114	The question you're asking is Senator Nutchowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u115	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. We hear about the fact that the audience is falling, that no one is interested in what is happening in public media, but when I turn on TVP Info or other public televisions, I see that very often there are opposition representatives on these televisions, that there are often members of the Platform, Modern, Kukiz15, PSL. If there's no such viewing, then... well, in my opinion, there's no point in showing up on television whose ratings are falling. Are there any percentages as to how much antenna time for politicians is devoted to opposition politicians and how much PiS? And one more question. Do opposition politicians often refuse to participate in programmes? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the hall: For example, Honest.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u116	As for the second question, I can't answer the senator, I don't know if they often refuse. We've heard about some of the rejections from other media, but how much is it... Nor have I heard that this is a problem in the daily operation of TVP Info, and there are politicians and public people there most. When it comes to ratings and these time proportions, your attention to ratings is very accurate because it shows... Well, I'd like to remind you a little bit about a subscription here, when you talk about a subscription, everybody's yelling that they don't have a TV, but when there's a football game broadcast, 13 million people watch this broadcast, even though no one has a TV. It can be similar with this ratings. As for time spent on various political groups, such statistics are kept up to date. I don't have them right now. They are influenced by media companies. These are very efficient calculations. The National Radio and Television Council also influences our information. Perhaps President Kołodziejski has these statistics on him, and if so, he will be able to answer. I don't have those statistics on me because we don't formally account for them. We just get it for the news. But from what I remember, it's, in general, a state of equilibrium. Please also bear in mind that this balance is counted... for individual political groups, and for government or president representatives, it is analysed in different categories and has always been analysed in different categories. Public media...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u117	You're asking Senator Borowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u118	I'm sorry, Minister, but I'm going to be a little miserable. Namely, a year ago, we discussed here and you presented the appointment of the National Media Council as an excellent thing, and the Council itself, above all, as an institution which will enjoy great independence in contrast to the previous edition of the National Radio and Television Council, which, as you have said, has been on a short leash of politicians since it was judged by Parliament each year. It's a quote. Well, the case with Jack Kurski shows... This is not the case, of course, by the Minister, but I think that the general opinion on this matter is different. You've made a decision, and I think it's the right thing to do. At that time, I encouraged you to make such a decision and you made it. It was to cancel Jack Kurski, but it wasn't 24 hours and the situation changed. So it's not a short leash anymore, but... I don't know what to call it, rather holding that advice by the throat. That's by the way. But here's the question. I am a great supporter and public media, and pay for public media. I was very worried when Donald Tusk said his famous opinions that you shouldn't pay at all. And some would even like to privatize public media. Public media have a huge role to play, but the condition, apart from money, is that they will be watched, regardless of political options. I'd like to know... Today on TVP Info Well, I have to say that TVP Info is famous for its aggressiveness, even greater than in the TVP1 program of Mrs. Gugala I noticed such a head on the belt: the defenders of pedophiles and allies are the faces of protests against judicial reform. [[It's true.]] Do you like it, or do you think that this is how social protests should be reported, whether or not it agrees with them? Is that what this is supposed to look like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u119	Mr Senator, it is quite obvious that social problems should be reported by means of factual arguments and presentation, if there is a substantive discussion, of the arguments of all parties to this substantive discussion. I am pleased with your declaration, which is not only a verbal declaration, I know about your position and the position of the groups you were a member of. The public media, as an institution, was indeed supported by you, which I am very pleased about because they should be supported. And as for the quality of these media years ago and now, there will always be disputes about this quality one day and now. The most important thing is that these media exist and are financially strong, because the program can always be improved if, of course, there is somewhere to improve it. [[Sure. I'm just gonna ask... or I'm gonna ask you a specific question: do you like this way of reporting?]] Well, I said I like the way things are, and I don't like the way things are. [[She was actually talking.]] [[I see. And this one was what do you think it was?]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Here you are.]] After all, if you considered him factual, you wouldn't be quoting this example. [[No, I'm sure it's... but I'm asking you.]] [[I think it's factual.]] [[Thank you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Thank you. Luckily, Senator Rooster doesn't work on TV yet, because it would be much worse.]] [[But I'm gonna work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u120	Now you're asking Senator Rulewski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u121	I must defend, Mr. Marshal, Senator Rooster. He watches TV from the windows of a speeding train and not everything is visible. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Let's get to the question. Mr President, I am going further in my efforts to ensure that this television for a copper is implemented, contrary to your promises and suggestions. It is said that there is an obstacle in the form of notification in the European Union, an obstacle which is long-lasting, which is supposed to last for the rest of your life and mine. My question is: is the Union really so backward and bureaucratic that it sets itself centuries to make decisions even when Poland is subject to a crisis of public media charges? And wouldn't the argument which I put forward in my idea of television for a copper, that one nationwide program would be free from advertising, except for social action, be the one that would judge the agreement of the European Union in a different way? Just like the case requires.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u122	In my opinion, it is not so obvious or simple, Mr. Senator. Well, I will use examples from the distant past. This project, which I had brought to Parliament and which I had announced my time to pay my subscription on the occasion of energy bills, raised reservations. We talked to the institutions... [[And I'm talking about PIT.]] Plus, I'll get right over it. He raised reservations, but especially in two areas. One reservation: isn't this a reinforcement of unwarranted public aid for power plants that will receive a commission for charging these charges? And the second objection was that this, generally speaking, is a new system and it needs to be notified. As far as the PIT and KRUS project is concerned, this system was still agreed by the National Council in its old composition at the European Commission's working level for a few years. I mean, there have been talks at the mid-levels of the European Commission and our National Radio and Television Council on certain solutions related to this concept. So in that sense, the road is a little worn out. Therefore, this project, which now announces the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, has a chance to be adopted or approved by Brussels before we part with it after as long as possible, Senator. - You're Or me, since you referred to it. But it is simply that the European Commission is more interested in how money is spent than how money is collected. Therefore, it is very important that all public media obligations are defined And so that the funds are accounted for according to these cards As I suspect, President Kołodziejski will talk about, because in the hands of the National Council it is the granting of subscription money on the basis of programme and financial plans submitted by media companies and later the settlement of the spending of this money, in accordance with the provisions in these plans. And these plans must be based on a public mission. And the next thing you asked, it's whether you could give up advertising. [[In one of the programs.]] In my opinion, you can't give up advertising at all and shouldn't. But when the sources of funding for public media are stabilised And I assume there's gonna be this big project. It will then be possible and time-limiting of these advertisements should be considered. At the moment it is possible to present advertising material for up to 12 minutes within the hour. But there are concepts that, as the financial situation stabilizes, maybe even eventually go down to about four minutes an hour. But you shouldn't give up on them at all, because it's also a test for the rune itself to see Well, how do you say that? Isn't this pike getting fat and turning into a fat carp or is still a pike? Because you also need to stimulate certain competitive elements in these media.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u123	The question is Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u124	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Me in a very cultural way, not attacking anyone... But maybe Rulewski's friend wouldn't go out, because right now... now I'm not looking out of a rushing shinkansen, and I'm looking out of the Senate sitting room. And I'm gonna make it clear to you what the Rooster is thinking and what he's watching. Minister, hero of Solidarity, I watch TV. I continue, listen to Radio Maryja and watch TVP1 and TVP Info. And dear Senator Rulewski... [[And TVN?]] If I turn on TVP1 or TVP Info, Senator Rulewski keeps popping up there and he says that TV is political. Yesterday I turn on the news, there is a Guest News, there is a discussion between Senator Prof. Żaryn and Senator Rulewski... [[Jealous?]] What kind of political television is this? And Senator Rulewski says: I know one thing, yes, the supreme courts were ours, because there we had influence... And then there's the translation. I'm turning on the TVP Info... [[Mr. Senator, will there be a question?]] I'm gonna ask you a question right now. [[Good.]] I'm turning on the TVP Info over there: we're connecting with Bydgoszcz. It's so interesting, I'm sitting with my wife, watching, and here's Jan Rulewski and his: how moral... Minister, is there a moral right to say that television is political? Next case. Minister, is Mr. Kievsky... They're not supposed to show on TV that he's supposed to pay alimony? I see him at those protests. He's the first hero, screaming... people, where are we, Minister? Those who break the law are to be heroes and not speak loudly...? Isn't your editor on TVP Info supposed to tell the truth? Or I hear violent words... Does the Minister accept that? Next question. And how does one of the founders of the Civic Platform's opinion paper express itself to a young journalist in such a way rather than another? Or how do you attack the TVP journalists who run the 20th? Is this the way it's supposed to be? Really, Senator Jackowski was absolutely right to ask if the consequences were being drawn. Next, Minister, question. I mean, you really have to protect yourself. What Senator Borowski said, the national media. I will no longer speak here about the President of the Republic, Mr Lech Wałęsa, who speaks to his admirers one or another, what the media say... Therefore, let us really judge this objectively. I think these media are working fantastic. I do not speak about the person of the President, and as I know, Mr Janusz Kawecki is in the National Council of Radiophony and Television, and you, Mr. Professor, can be calm about the activity of television. As Minister Czabański is the head of national media, Dear... If there's people out there, we can be calm about how TV works. I'm proud of it, Mr. Senator Rulewski, that I'm a railroadman, that I represent hero railwaymen. And I'll tell you, Minister, there aren't enough programs on the railroad. Do you share that? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Especially about trains, it doesn't exist at all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u125	Mr. Senator, thank you for your warm words. And as far as these railroad programs are concerned, go to President Kurski. [[I'll step forward.]] [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u126	Wait a minute. Maybe the Minister will answer that question, and then I'll ask you. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: No, no, I already answered.]] Yes? [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Yes.]] You're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u127	Mr. Marshal, I ask you very much to keep discipline. Senator Rooster, my dear colleague from Cracow, actually had a speech and a statement, and we are at the stage of questions. Thank you very much. [[I'll do it again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u128	Thank you, Senator. I'm trying to do what I can... [[I asked three questions.]] ...but some forms of asking questions are so picturesque that they find it difficult to resist and interrupt. I'm sure we'll ask the senator to ask... [[I've asked three questions, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Żaryn is another senator who asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u129	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I was a little concerned about your recent speech in the last 15 minutes on advertising and the necessary presence in public media. Please consider whether there is really a possibility that public media may not deprive 100% of this advertising privilege, but at least in part, because of the future, i.e. better downloadability or a new form of subscription fee, but give up such advertising, because for a large number of reasons, I do not know if there are such studies, it is also a question Part, I believe, of the public opinion one of the most important values of public media That's what it would be if they didn't have commercials in them. I'm not talking about the level of those ads, which is just so often so embarrassing and unstoppable to the program, which is interrupted in such a way that... [[Voice from the room: It is not.]] ...the National Media Council should lean on this problem and strengthen the content of the media at the expense of not very intelligent advertising.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u130	Mr. Senator, I agree with the general message of your speech, of course. Well, advertising isn't an intellectual message, and it's never gonna be, mostly based on emotions, as we know. And that's not the favorite part of the TV show. At the moment they are a necessity, this commercialization of television has resulted in a known result and it reveals a lot of advertising. That's why I'm in favour, and I said that when the situation is stabilized, limit it, but do not eliminate it, because the media should also not have such a situation that they have everything on a tray and do not have to fight against competition, because it does not lead to good results either. It seems to me that if this time could ultimately be reduced by 3 times, because from 12 to 4 minutes, it would be a fundamental difference, especially since, as you know, you must not interrupt television programs with public advertising, what happens in commercial stations. So the difference in the quality of the message would be so fundamental that it would already, in the sense of the satisfaction of viewers, audiences, also radio listeners, as I suspect, suffice. However, when it comes to restricting participation in the advertising game, please take into account that public television, TV Poland is a very large player The Polish Radio is already relatively smaller and significant on this market. If such a process were to take place, not only as a result of financial stabilisation of these media, but also after considering such a option that commercial media would also have to pay certain lump sums to public media for getting a kind of slower market to share advertising.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u131	The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u132	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Thank you for that answer. Contrary to appearances, what I want to ask you is close to this discussion that we are currently conducting in some way. Namely, is it true? I can't tell you if I've received this message more in the form of conjecture, rumor or decision. That there is going to be a radical change in the programming scope of Program 2 of Polish Radio. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: No, that is not true.]] This has occurred somewhere in the public sphere to such an extent that it is also worth to make it publicly clear that it is not true. This is a program that is certainly not listened to by all Poles, but is so outstandingly, positively specialized when it comes to the higher sphere of culture and its presence in public space, that it is not worth disappointing the achievements of Programme 2. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Mr. Senator, I am firmly denouncing such rumors and I will justify this to the dementi. Well, if you'll excuse me, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u133	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u134	It is an elite program, although it should also have less elite elements to encourage new listeners, to bring them into the world of higher culture or the culture of the word, or, above all, of musical culture, because it is the main content of this program. There may be reservations about implementation, etc., but it is generally of a nature, preserves it and will be such a programme, because the assumption is that radio programmes must differ. And he's different from other radio programs. Programme 3 is aimed, generally speaking, at the 'no', it is now an inmodious formulation of 'intelligence' or people aspiring to intelligence, regardless of their age. Programme 1 is more popular, Programme 2 is more for cultural elites, and Programme 4 was basically for young people and he went online And that's also right. Or on various mobile... Because right now there's young people on the Internet and mobile... As far as these rumors are concerned, they probably have their source in the fact that in Programme 2 there was a Radio editorial office of the People's Culture Centre, which reaches to the so-called. music sources, to ethnic music, to a large extent to Polish music, although not only, to music of many nations, and it promotes it on the air. Well, this editorial... I think it already happened yesterday, but... This editorial office was supposed to be a decision of the board, which was already taken, and yesterday was supposed to be a decision of the Supervisory Board of Polish Radio... She was removed from the program 2 structure and became so-called. nationwide editorship, and will create its programs for all Polish Radio programs. But in addition to not endangering her accomplishments, she will have a permanent place in Program 2 in the evening, but in decent hours, not after 24 a.m., not at night, but at night. In addition, she will be doing programmes to order individual programs. The same is true of international editors, economic editors, sports editors in Polish Radio. I would say this: this is a positive change in my opinion. I'll tell you why. That's what it is. Let's not fool ourselves by editing niche, valuable, valuable, but niche broadcasts. Therefore, it will have its permanent place in the evening in Program 2 of the Polish Radio for the niche listener. And this is a good place for a niche listener. At the same time, she will have the incentive to do broadcasts that will be listened to and in other programs, maybe less niche broadcasts, and also devoted to this music. And that's what... Well, some people take all kinds of changes wrong, and that's how gossip happens later. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u135	You're asking Senator Frost a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u136	Mr. Chairman, I have three questions. First question. Well, a few months ago, there was a discussion about funding public media. Is the company of commercial law the best legal and organisational form for both Polish Television and Polish Radio? Are there any thoughts or decisions of the National Media Council on this matter? That's the first question. The second question is that there was an idea. Very, I think it's good, though I don't know if it's been abandoned. For television to create a large horizontal information portal. There would, of course, be a component of the huge resources that television has. 'Cause it's known today that everything is moving to the Internet. But there would be other elements. Television would be the easiest way to create a portal like this. Is there anything on this matter that you know about? And the third question is about a question that many self-governments, but also the inhabitants, draw the attention to. Well, local television stations have a very small share, and we're talking about local public television. Intel from the field. I know there are, of course, these regional centers... I'll talk about it on the example of Lower Silesia. It is not only that the Lower Silesian band is very small for an hour, it is still most of the information, e.g. In fact, it's information from Wroclaw. Jelenia Góra, Wałbrzych, Legnica, Karpacz, Zgorzelca is not shown. Of course, the translation is the same as always: lack of money. Nevertheless, I believe that this is a unique resource that has television at its disposal. I believe that these opportunities are being exploited to an insufficient degree, which is also frustrating. Well, all we see on Lower Silesia TV is de facto information from Wrocław, and through digital transmitters, everyone has access to television in Lower Silesia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u137	Please, Minister. Three questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u138	Mr. Senator, as far as commercial law companies are concerned, I'm their opponent, as you know. My project was to transform media companies from commercial companies into state legal entities. This idea of political leadership has been postponed for now, but that does not mean that we will not return to it. I remember this all the time as president, as Krzysztof Czabański, because the National Media Council has never held a position on this matter. I believe that this project will need to be returned after the financial stabilisation of public media, because commercial law companies are not transparent enough, and after this reform they are to be financed to a very large extent from taxes, from public tribute. It takes other forms. I don't forget that idea. On the contrary, I will push this idea, although I do not know if with the support of the National Media Council, because, as I said, it was never the subject of our deliberations. As far as this portal is concerned, work is underway to create one portal of national media with the support of the National Council, the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Working talks between Polish Television, Polish Radio and the Polish Press Agency are underway. We want to create a portal that uses the powerful resources of these media companies, but at the same time it must be a construction that takes into account that there are also some elements of conflict of interest between these companies operating on the market. Some of the resources are sold, made available for money, and it has to be balanced to what extent it would simply be available to all those who pay the subscription. I am also in favour of the idea that all who will pay the subscription should have access to all the resources, because it would be an incentive to pay the subscription. And as for the third case that you said, I suspect that when it comes to why there are only Wrocław, Zielona Góra or Gdansk in these regional bands, and there is no Poland outside these cities, it is only part of the truth that is so for financial reasons. It's probably also a lot of habits, routines, laziness. It's easier to film something in Wrocław than go to Legnica. And that's what we're paying attention to. We note that the money that will come to the Polish Television, partly I've already told you about it. They must be marked, even informally. Some of them must be spent on regional centres and cannot be consumed at the headquarters of Voronica, because we must strengthen these centres. If that happens, I hope that's what's gonna happen this year. Then, too, we will begin to account more rigorously for the quality of their work, because I fully agree with what you said.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u139	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was moved to ask you this question from a moment ago. Namely, you spoke about a common portal of national media, and in a way paid for it, because it is to be used by those who pay the subscription. Let us remember that young people go away from watching TV, moving to the Internet, and in some ways they expect freeness, even without paying this subscription. The question is, don't you think this portal should have a kind of broader formula? This should simply be a national information portal, which would benefit not only from the resources of national media, but generally from what is available in the world of information. Besides, it should be completely free. Then you will reach more audiences. That's the first question. And the other is about historical policy. Polish Television is involved as a producer in very good and interesting projects, e.g. in the film Volyn, which on the one hand was a carrier of historical politics, one of the tools of this policy, and on the other hand was also a commercial success. Don't you think these projects should be continued, intensified?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u141	As for the second question, I completely agree with you. Anyway, I agree on the first case, too, but I'm gonna add a few more words. Television is now preparing a historical series! I've already mentioned this It is dedicated to the time of Kazimierz the Great. You can imagine it's not just gonna be a TV show, it's gonna be a movie that's gonna go to the movies. As far as I am concerned, such projects should be strengthened, inspired, etc. As far as this portal is concerned, I agree with you, too. In these discussions about the resulting portal, I represent such a view that it should be free, available to all those paying subscriptions. Young people who are 18 today enter PIT or KRUS and will also pay a subscription because it will be a common fee. In this sense, we will not exclude anyone from the free use of this portal, but even if it turns out that some part of the films from the archive resource Polish Television will want to share on the web for a small fee... Although, as far as I know, it already makes available free of charge many of these films and TV series, and those that have been digitally adapted to the present times. These are not archival tapes. These are digitally prepared films in good quality. Even if some elements were available only for payment, of course for very low remuneration. It's out of the question here... It would be a fee of a few zlotys for a movie or a show, for downloading it or watching it online. In general I agree with this, and all the time I stress that this portal should work as widely as the most well-known portals, namely Onet and Virtual Poland, because only then will we be able to compete on this market. This cannot be narrowed down to the information sphere itself, because then they will necessarily have fewer recipients. These should be portals where 95% of the content will be absolutely free. That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u142	You're asking Senator Dowhan a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u143	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna ask my colleague in my question. Mr President, looking at the fact that you have no money, that people don't want to pay for TV and that regional programmes are what they are, and basically there aren't... I'm from Green Mountain. There twice after 10 minutes a journal is broadcast in which the same messages are repeated. There's also some meaningless conversation. And that's the whole regional program. The building's in a mess. Cars are suitable for museums and could ride yellow plates. Of course, there are dozens, maybe dozens of people working there. I don't know how many, but I'm sure a dozen. Is there any point in maintaining such centres? Isn't it better to do it the way the Western media does? I do not wish to refer to TVN or Polsat, which is probably a salt in your eye as a good example of managing every dollar. They have the same message when something happens. They have operators in regions that drive and transmit. If there's something bigger going on, there's a car coming from which you can broadcast anything today. Since it's really possible to save money here, is there any point in keeping the centers just so that they are and that they have a job, I don't know, the heads of the centers, their deputies Probably two at the resort. Three managers, several drivers, etc.? That's my first question. Second question. Are you doing research on the age range of people watching your flagship programs today? Are these tests done, and if so, can you quote their results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u144	As far as the first case is concerned, regional centres, I agree with the senator firmly, in principle, disagree. I believe that these centres have been stripped of their money and their ability to act over the past few years, but they are a very valuable element in the television structure. If they are financially strengthened, they will show the lives of people and communities outside Warsaw and large cities. I think it's worth it for these centres to function. I'm presenting here an absolutely different view than you are. It is not enough that these centres must not be disposed of, but should be strengthened financially and by staff. With regard to the age categories of people watching our programs, as far as I know, the results of the ratings of various programmes or television bands in different age categories are known. They're available. They're in reports addressed to the National Council and forwarded to us. I don't have them on me, so I can't quote specific data here, but whether we think they're done right or wrong... They're made by Nielsen. There is an indication of the market share of public television or individual public television programmes in a given time band in respect of age categories. It's all there. I don't have it on me. Maybe the representatives of the National Council have it with them... [[It's in the National Council report.]] It's in the National Council report. I'm sending it to my colleague and to the National Council report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u145	No one's going to vote anymore. I inform you that Mr Krzysztof Czabański, President of the National Media Council, has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Czarnobaj and Senator Zdrojewska. Thank you, Minister. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Mr. Marshal, I will only ask you to take these questions out of the protocol to answer these questions actually, and not... Okay?]] There you go. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Thank you, Mr Marshal.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to welcome Mr Witold Kołodziejski, President of the National Radio and Television Council, to the Senate meeting. I ask the President to take the floor and present the report. [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] Mr. President isn't here. How about a two-minute break... Now. Once again, welcome to the Senate meeting of Mr Witold Kołodziejski, President of the National Radio and Television Council. Please submit a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u146	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I consider my speech, the discussion of the report as a continuation of this long and detailed discussion. Probably many topics have already been raised, so I will focus only on those matters which are additional, which are not actually relevant to public media, because these have already been discussed, as I said. In addition to this discussion, I would like to talk about the situation of public media in general. The survey was mentioned here, there was not one information that was included not in the report, but in the information on the state of the market for 2016 presented in parallel with the report. As far as public television is concerned, it is still the largest of all commercial television groups and is almost 30%. This information can be found on page 45 of the report. The second group is Polsat, with 23% participation. So that looking at the picture of the TV market in its entirety, we cannot separate only the main antennas, because for all major antennas, both TVP1, TVP2 and TVN and Polsat, this ratings decrease. The market is diversifying, the participation of thematic programmes is increasing, which is a constant trend, and the audience is going online, and here the decisive criterion is not only the age criterion. Interestingly, from our and international research, Internet traffic is also generated mainly by broadcasters, i.e. broadcasters remain the largest content providers. They are generally audiovisual content. Public television and other televisions are also involved. So when we talk about this shrinking television market as a whole, let's remember that it doesn't shrink as much as it does. Although online competition is indeed much bigger, so it is harder to fight here. The issue of the Freedom House report was raised here, a report that talks about a decreasing rating in terms of freedom of the media in Poland. Indeed, this report itself is rather curiosable. Here again, I repeat the word that is making a big career at today's meeting. But the report itself is crazy. All you have to do is reach out to the report as a whole, not to the report. I'm sorry, I didn't introduce you, and today there's a whole National Radio Radio and Television in full capacity, and there are office directors. The National Radio Radio and Television in full squad has come here to report with me. Minister Bochwic was at the presentation of this report. Both the presentation itself and the report itself were quite ideologically saturated, and therefore it is actually difficult to address them so directly. The Association of Polish Journalists has already issued such an opinion. With regard to the arguments that are quoted in the report itself, it is difficult to consider as an argument that is worthwhile and that can actually affect media pluralism, that the promotion of historical narratives is limited This is what it says in the report that points to Poles' guilt during World War II. What's that got to do with... [[Member of the National Radio and Television Council of Teresa Bochwic: I in the Holocaust.]] And in the Holocaust, yes. ...in conjunction with media freedom and is it really true? This is an open question, but it certainly does not concern the situation of the media in Poland. We have 3 large media TV groups and 4 large radio groups. Public media, if we look at this landscape from the ideology-political side... Even if we say that there was a return in the public media, although this would have to be further justified and said in what sector and where... It's a fraction of the entire television market, which is unlimited. Not much, it is one of the better developed media markets in Europe. This can also be seen from the analysis contained in the information for 2016. This market is developed. And there's a market for advertising that doesn't have the same growth dynamics as the new software offer, and so the competition between broadcasters is getting fiercer. But when it comes to advertising itself, of course, it should be remembered that public television hasn't stopped movies since the beginning... at all advertising broadcasts. So it's a limit that commercial broadcasters don't have, and it's pretty important when it comes to counting revenue. It is estimated that this is a loss of up to half of the possibilities for public broadcasters to make money. So let us always bear this in mind when we talk about reducing advertising, that advertising is already limited in public media. I would also like to add, in addition to the previous discussion, that there has indeed been a marked decrease in subscription revenues in 2008. In 2007 it was an amount of PLN 890 million, or almost PLN 900 million, and in 2008 from year to year it was already collapse to PLN 730 million, which later grew further. At the moment there is a certain increase in the number of charges and we are seeing an increase in the number of recorded receivers, which is quite an optimistic indicator, but of course it does not solve the problem of public media funding. In 2016, i.e. in the reporting year, Polish Television spent PLN 1 billion of PLN 697 million on mission programmes, and the subscription covered only 21.5% all expenditure. The better situation was on the radio: it was 284 million PLN, the subscription covered 65.5% , i.e. more, and in regional radios, in regional radio stations it was 236 million PLN and 72% They covered the subscription money. I'm bringing up this data to show how much of public television production is made for commercial money, just from commercials. 80% this production is the production of commercial money from the company's revenue. Of course, we can talk about changing the share of advertising in the program, but only if we radically change the subscription situation. That's the chance right now. What was the legal status in 2016? 2016 is primarily the year of the end of the previous National Council's term of office and the beginning of the new National Council's term of office. On 12 September, we began to sit in a new composition. Let me remind you that the previous term has passed entirely, there have been no extraordinary measures or rejections of the report... Otherwise, there were no statutory measures shortening the term of office. The previous National Council has worked out to the end in the composition in which it was elected. On 8 January 2016, the Law amending our Radio and Television Act entered into force and changes were made to the competences of the National Council. The National Council was deprived of the competence to select and appoint public media supervisory boards, as a result of which the National Media Council was established. I would like to point out here that the rest of the competences remain, i.e. the National Council continues to divide the subscription, further analyze the programmes, continue to sign agreements and financial and programme plans. So the entire vast area of competence in relation to public media was left to the National Radio and Television Council. Indeed, there was a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. he concerned another law in which the Court stated in general, which could be interpreted more broadly, that the National Council as a constitutional body could not be omitted in this chain of the emergence of public media authorities. And perhaps such an amendment, which will simply include the National Council in this chain of appointment of public media authorities, will be prepared by the Ministry of Culture and will go to Parliament. As regards other aspects that are relevant, the National Council has worked out and adopted a strategy for the next few years. In this strategy, there are things like the reference to digital radio, like the reference to media concentration, like the reference to funding... The National Council has pushed and continues to push the draft subscription law combined with the audiovisual fee charged on the occasion of tax settlements of PIT and KRUS. As regards international issues, the National Council is very active at the moment in preparing the revision of the Audiovisual Directive. Right now, we're on the job... In fact, this work is already being completed and in the coming weeks the Ministry of Culture will present a bill to the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers implementing the European Union's communication. These are the rules governing public aid which must be met by the public media so that the subscription aid is not regarded as unlawful public aid. It's about determining exactly what the mission is and how the money will be spent. Following this, the National Council will first write a public media duty card in the form of a regulation This is the missionary manifesto of the public media And then we're gonna account for the public media in accordance with these rules. All these trials are going on. Minister Czabański has said several times that neither the National Council nor the National Media Council has a legislative initiative, but we work very closely with the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage leading for us at this moment. As far as current cases, licence cases and public television centres are concerned, I would just like to point out that in 2017 regional centres received 40 million more from the subscription than before. We keep thinking about regional centers and strengthening their position. These are structures that do not have a commercial opportunity, because no commercial television will survive from regional markets. Local media are media that can only exist thanks to public money, but Minister Czabański spoke about it, so I will not expand the subject. We have provided the report and the information, so I think it makes no sense for me to talk more about what is in the report itself. I'm waiting for questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u147	Thank you, Minister. Please remain with the speaker, because now the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the President in connection with this report. Senator Rulewski is the first person on the list to ask questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u148	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Chairman, first question. Does the National Radio and Television Council in its current personnel composition intend to continue the subscription efforts which are the subject of the project of the previous National Council and, in particular, to deal with all these initiators, not necessarily just the government, so that the matter can be resolved in the passed law? The second issue is the issue of complaints. As far as I know, citizens or groups of citizens complain to the National Radio and Television Council. What does this process look like, how many of these complaints, more or less? How does the National Council react to them? And the third issue, the level issue... Even communist television influenced the formation of views in neighbouring countries. What is the impact of our national television on neighbouring countries in which many Poles live, not necessarily because of their natural stay, but because of travel, work or willingness to make contacts? Do you do this kind of research?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u149	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u150	When it comes to funding, like I said, it's... We're talking about a national audiovisual contribution. This is a subscription model that the Ministry of Culture has taken over and described as a PIT subscription, in short. Of course, we support this, this is the target model of the subscription system. We can already say that we support this and it is some success of the National Council as well. At the moment there is a discussion as to whether this target model will not be introduced immediately, i.e. without this indirect model, a sealing act, which would talk about downloading information from pay-TV operators. So, as much as possible, the audiovisual contribution to public broadcasters operating widely... Because it's not just about this aerial effect, but above all about producing content that will later be available and on the air, but also on the Internet. As far as complaints are concerned, of course, the National Council is proceeding with all complaints that affect it. Right now we're talking about a few hundred complaints. Complaints about the program are just some part of all these complaints. They relate to whether commercial and public broadcasters were equally concerned, so it is shaped more or less. In the press, what you're mostly commenting on is these complaints about a public broadcaster... No, because these are also complaints against commercial broadcasters. Such 2 TVs, on which there are most complaints, are Polish and TVN television. As far as our picture of the market is concerned, we really note that there is an increasing division and such polarisation when it comes to television. There was a lot of talk about public television here. TVN, especially with TVN24 information program, became more polarized and polarizes towards such a message, which is the main message of the opposition when it comes to the Polish political scene. About that... not yet. I would like to add that whether public television is falling or not... I have already said that the share of all major channels is falling, but for example, information television has a permanent audience. This isn't a big audience at all. That's what the whole society doesn't live for, that's what all citizens don't live for. That's at 3%. , over 3%, up to 4%. TVN24 and TVP Info... And here the competition is quite level. There were times that TVN had more viewers. There are moments that TVP Info gathers a wider audience. The last weeks or months are a success of TVP Info. Well, since we're talking about relatively small audience groups here, these fluctuations are frequent and large. When it comes to foreign impact, of course it is the Polonia TVP programme, but you already know what the problems with financing the Polonia TVP are, and not only financing problems, but also legal problems, i.e. accessibility, for example in South America, on pay-TV platforms. From the Ministry... It is mainly the government, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that finances the programme of Polish Television abroad, and therefore... Financial issues here, including everything, Mr. Senator, seem to be the most important, but apart from financial problems, it is also a very important problem to examine the ratings of Polonia Television, because we practically do not know for whom we are broadcasting, who is watching us, on which continents, in which age groups. And this problem is still coming back, because it's extremely important to investigate these issues, so that we can somehow program this antenna later. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u151	Thank you very much. [[In one case... may I, Mrs. Marshal?]] Yes, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u152	I'd like a refill. About that last question you answered, about the impact on... Poles abroad, even abroad... Thank you for your answer, but I mean the impact of Polish TV on neighbours, not necessarily only Poles. After all, this is the place of promotion of Poland towards everyone In particular, neighbours who, if there was a high-level programme, would be happy to include it and thus...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u153	But if it's a separate program... [[Yes.]] ...like, for example, Visegrad TV, this project? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Well, right now, I don't know, you'd have to ask the president of public television what the fate of Visegrad Television is. This is a project. quite difficult, because it requires the cooperation of 3 separate broadcasters. I believe that there would be a need and an opportunity, but for now, since, as I said, the financing of public service missionary activities is at 20%, the first challenge is the financial issue. If it is solved, the first question is: what about Polonia Television, how to do this? And then there's more antennas. But, of course, it is possible to create such television in terms of organizational and technical reality, even the place for the studio was already designated, this television was to be built in the centre of Cracow.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u154	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, in your report, in this part just given up, and in the document submitted to the Senate Council, the question of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 13 December 2016 is dealt with quite directly. In this comprehensive, hundred-page document, this issue, reported, takes up half a page. I would like to ask the President whether and what possible actions the National Council has taken, of course, bearing in mind that there is no legislative initiative, which is understandable and obvious, in order to restore the Act on Radio and Television to its original character, which is in line with the Constitution, because the judgment has pointed out that the Act is incompatible with the Constitution. Is there such a far-reaching decline in the powers of the National Council without your action, even in relations with the Ministry of Culture? As I understand it, this is the political channel where you could present your rations, because the loss of competence is not so much for yourself, but very large, and in a very important, sensitive range of rules-making and the cast of supervisory boards and other public media bodies. That's the first question. And the second question is the work on the subscription law, the audiovisual contribution, which would be a tribute, I understand. And I hear about the progress of the work with a contribution attached to PIT or in the case of people who have agricultural insurance, to the KRUS, and would be, it would be different, from 6 to 8 PLN, some say that more. Do you think that this solution, if you count the proceeds, convert it into a subscription, can be treated by the European Union as illegal public aid? Thank you. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: As for...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, just a moment. I will also ask for the question of Senator Kazimierz Kleina, and then the President will answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about the report of the National Radio and Television Council in section six in item nine, about broadcasts for national minorities and people who speak Kashubian. The National Radio and Television Council monitors the offer addressed to national minorities and communities using regional language, the only Kashubian language in Poland. I am particularly interested in those broadcasts that are addressed to the Kashubians. It seems to me that the public media have not adapted to this change that has occurred in the Kashubian environment over the past twenty-something years. The only program on public television aimed at the Kashubian community was the broadcast of the program, which was titled "Rodnô zemia. He was later decommissioned. In this place has already come shorter and rather Polish-speaking with the Kashubian inserts of the program "Tedë jo" which is not the worst. Only 25 years ago, the Kashubian language in schools was taught only twenty-something, well, thirty children. Today, this language is taught by many people, 20,000 young people, and the TV programme offer is smaller than it was 20 years ago. Is the National Radio and Television Council taking any action to increase this TV offer? The situation in public radio is a little better, in Radio Gdańsk and Radio Koszalin, but also these programs are very, very marginal. Is the National Council taking any action to expand this programme to increase this offer? I ask because the expectations of this community are clearly greater than what public television is doing right now. I know that this may not be a subject, a question to which the Minister will be able to answer me in detail, because this part of the report of the National Council has about 10 lines, so much is devoted to this matter, as well as to the Ukrainian, German minority. If the Minister had signalled this case here, and he could have given me an answer in writing more widely, I would be grateful.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u158	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u159	Maybe I'll answer, Mrs. Marshal, maybe I'll start at the end. [[Please.]] ...as long as we're up to speed... Of course, I'll prepare an answer like that, and I'll write it because it's a specific question. It's like we're 100% It's like we're covering demand when it comes to funding this kind of show. Just with programmes for the Kashubian minority... not for minorities, but in Kashubian there were no major problems and this is one of the best offers for public media. But I'm gonna check it out, and I'm gonna send it over. In fact, here the radio sounds, because on the radio on the air, and above all on the Internet, on the website of Radio Gdańsk there is a rich offer. TV also produces... In relation to other languages... It seems to me that this is even one of the better and richer offers when it comes to public media... [[Voice from the room: 15 minutes a week.]] I'll give you detailed information. As I said, all the demand that the Gdańsk branch of public television has made, the National Council is covering. But let's leave it for a detailed study. As far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, yes, the National Council has asked the Minister... as chairman on behalf of the National Council, I have asked the Minister of Culture and National Heritage to include the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in the forthcoming legislative work. That doesn't mean going back to the last law because we have the National Media Council, well, a little bit different legal order. There is a concept that assumes a provision that the National Council at the end must accept the election of the National Media Council, any choice, i.e. appointments, appeals, changes, etc., etc., which will sort of exhaust this remark and the position of the Constitutional Tribunal. But this argument that Mr Czabański was talking about, namely that we are dealing with all the media, is indeed a serious argument. I even quoted it in my previous term of office in the National Council when I had these powers. I've always thought that this is quite difficult and complicated competence for the National Council. As for the audio-visual contribution, PIT, we... [[Unacceptable public aid...]] We in our quite extensive study of the audiovisual contribution, as the National Council... Because, indeed, you rightly pointed out to the senator that this is the continuation of the work of the previous National Council, and we are simply saying here that this is the concept that is developed as part of the continuation. Besides, in my early term of office, this work was also carried out, so there is a continuity of the idea here. But going to the question, I'm going to say that she won't be allowed unless the scale of the public media funding system changes specifically. If the subscription download level is what the current system assumes, not what it is in practice, but what the current subscription law provides... At this level we should resist and then we do not need to notify it. As President Czabański said, the Commission is not interested in how to raise money, but in how to spend it. But on the other hand, the point is to have a comparison, a reference to a scale, which is to say, to these, let's say, 3 billion zlotys should be compared. There is a question of how to interpret it, whether in terms of relief or no relief, but it is a question of interpretation. We assumed that the amount of this contribution would be, as we calculated, PLN 8,33, but it was done on other assumptions, in fact it would have to be recounted each time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. And there you go, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u161	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I have some questions about public television finances. First. What's the public television deficit right now? And does it grow, or does it shrink? Public television has taken credit. How high was the loan? And another question concerning the board of directors of the President, Vice President And the directors of television. What kind of payback do they have? What are the remunerations of the president, vice president and television programme directors? And finally, how much did the Opole festival cost, the one that didn't happen? Did TV pay any costs? I'm not asking about the one that might be, but the one that didn't happen on time. Because there were investments, scenes, stuff like that... well, maybe smaller. And that's it for now. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Already...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u162	Wait a minute, Mr. Chairman. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. And then Mr. Chairman will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u163	Oh, Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. [[You're welcome.]] Minister, I'll have a total of two questions, but that's very specific. The previous National Council and the previous one took part in the preparation of a media law, a large law. Let's call it that, but that was back then when it wasn't called that. Are you also involved in the preparation of a large media law, or are you a government partner in this matter? Second question. Are you taking part as a constitutional institution? possibly and as professionals with a large number of people in the preparation of the subscription bill? Third question. I'm talking about complaints. Minister, it is possible that I have not read in the report whether there is an answer to my question, how many complaints have been taken into account and whether these penalties have been imposed by you. realized... If it's not there, I'd ask you to answer that question in writing. Because if there's so many people complaining, I'm curious to know what it's like to get things done with these complaints. And one last question. I have some déjà vu, but I don't really understand what's going on with these TV remotes. Here it is... I read it somewhere: there are no pilots for television sets in the homes of 12 thousand 100 petitioners with a demand for withdrawal of the license. I don't know... What's with the pilots? And now, if it's okay, I'd only be a second. But it's in the form of short polemics. Senator Rulewski's words. Our neighbors were looking for patterns in how to build public television, they were our neighbors from Ukraine. Conferences were held here with all representatives of all groups. But in my opinion, at the moment, I'm not going to ask us for these designs, because I think television is no longer public television, and it's become political television. [[Oh, stop it!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u164	Mr. Senator, you will have the opportunity to speak in the discussion. Then you will be able to afford such comments. Now I ask you to ask questions. [[I asked four questions.]] I understand that all the questions have been answered. Please answer me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u165	Good. I don't know... I didn't understand the question about the TV pilots. What does the senator refer to? To which point or to which party of the report? [[Maybe I'll fill it in another way. I found it somewhere in the minutes of the Seym debate, so maybe I'll try to reach out to the highest level of information and fill it in. It wasn't exactly my question, but...]] But we're just pilots... I don't remember us taking care of the pilots for... [[Mr President, maybe this is about the report... I understand that what comes from the parliamentary debate is invalid.]] Good. I'm just gonna fill in my answer, 'cause the office staff are keeping me informed. In 2016, there were 26 hours 32 minutes and 57 seconds of broadcasts in regional, Kashubian, Mr. Senator. I repeat: 26 hours 32 minutes and 57 seconds of Kashubian broadcast in 2016. [[All year?]] All year on TV. As far as the deficit is concerned, this was 177 million in 2016. I don't know anything about credit. There's talk of 800 million promised, but we don't have any information about it. We don't have any information about Opole either. Even after the end of the reporting year, we will not have such information from the company. Most of these are questions that can be answered either by the supervisory board or by the owner, or by the minister of culture supervising the company. We don't get that kind of calculations. Are we a partner in the development of a large media law? Depends on which one. I mean, I don't know what a big one is. Is that what Minister Czabański was talking about? He was working on it when he was in the government. If so, then I must say that I have not heard that there is some intense work going on at the moment, so we do not participate in it. As far as other works are concerned, we are fully involved in them. There are laws that the National Council does not write, but is a partner in their creation and in many situations the originator of various solutions. With regard to the subscription law, we support the Ministry in its analysis and implementation of the concept of audiovisual fee, i.e. the contribution deducted together with PIT. As far as complaints are concerned and not addressed, this is indeed the information... [[Member of the National Radio and Television Council Janusz Kawecki: This is on page 52 and 53.]] That's where they're listed... The senator mentioned it. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Oh, there's information on penalties on this page. As far as complaints are concerned and not addressed, this question can be further understood. What does that mean? That we accept and adjudicate every complaint, and we agree with the complainant or do not grant it or grant it only in part. It is quite difficult to state clearly what it means that complaints are taken into account. We can write how many were rejected, i.e. those for which the National Council, after considering them, concluded that the complainant was wrong. That's the kind of information we can give you. And on page 52, all the penalties imposed are listed. [[Member of the National Radio and Television Council Janusz Kawecki: All are on page 51.]] Yes. Good. About... [[Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's question.]] I've already answered them. I don't know anything about debt. I know TV releases bonds worth PLN 300 million. [[I'm gonna go buy it.]] [[And the 800 million you mentioned? What's this? I'm asking because I didn't understand.]] As Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, I have no such information. I can share the information I've heard about, probably as much as the state, about some guaranteed or future loan from the bank. But I don't have any detailed information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u166	Does Mr President have anything else to add on these matters? [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Not on these questions anymore.]] Now you ask Senator Waldemar Sługocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Chairman, I have a question. On page 19, there are financial data showing the share of public funds in the company's budget. Public media companies in 2016 received the following amounts from subscription revenues: TV Polska My first question concerns the relationship between the measures received by regional radio stations and Polish Radio. These radio stations are, if I remember correctly, please correct me no less than 16, and probably definitely... [[There are 17 of them.]] Even 17, because it's probably coming from Radio Koszalin in West Pomeranian Voivodeship. My question is, why this correlation? Why is the amount of money transferred to the Polish Radio at 185.9 million and only 170.6 million for regional radio stations, at least in this ranking? I agree with Minister Czabanski and appreciate the role of regional and local media, including radio stations. Don't you think about increasing the participation of regional media, Polish Radio regional radio stations, in participating in financial resources? That's the first question. The second question also concerns financial issues. In 2016, the subscription appropriations were still insufficient. As far as public television is concerned, they were sufficient to cover only 23.6% implementation of the so-called public mission, in Polish Radio 75.2% , and in regional radio stations On average 79.3%. Of course I realise, Minister, that it is easier to balance these deficits when it comes to public television, because it is probably the most competitive in competition in the advertising market. Haven't you given any thought to supporting regional centres here? Because in the item concerning Polish Television, it is 365.5 million PLN. only about the global amount in terms of the functioning of the Polish Television. What is the involvement of regional public television centres? How much is the amount of PLN 365.5 million? And the last question I'd like to ask you is programmed. I've already asked Minister Czabanski about the public media mission. I also asked if there was a difference between the public media mission and the mission of national media. Mr President, I am a little concerned. I have a question: do you think this is in line with the mission of public media and, perhaps, the mission of national media? Here's a picture from today, and here's the entry: Pedophile defenders and alimentaries face-to-face against judicial reform. [[...Kievsky.]] Is that what you think this mission is about? Who did the public television reporter, TVP Info, mean? First President of the Supreme Court or are we all here? I don't know. I'm asking you very seriously. That's an important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u168	Mr. Senator, the question she had in mind isn't really a question for the president. [[Before I asked, Mrs. Marshal...]] Mr. Chairman... [[Mrs. Marshal, would you care to note that I asked you earlier if it was in the...]] The President reports for 2016. [[Member of the National Radio and Television Council Janusz Kawecki: This is a report for 2016.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But it's not funny, gentlemen.]] Okay, thank you very much. You are asking the question of Senator Czesław Ryszka. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the so-called. media recolonization, specifically about the dominance of German radio companies on the Polish media market. As I know, independent local radio stations disappear from the ether because broadcasting companies are bought out by the strongest capital groups. The most important private sender, RMF, belongs to the German Bauer group, which simultaneously owns a large part of the market for color magazines and significant flows on the Internet. Unfortunately, the National Radio and Television Council contributed to this concentration of German media by granting broadcasting licences on television multiplexes. Well, it has contributed immeasurably to the expansion of this group's influence. I do not think that any other country allows such numerous foreign media to be installed in its territory. That's why we're an event in this regard, and what's more, I think we're used to this anomaly. That's why I have a question about what you think of this so-called one. media recolonization. Is anyone working on it? How's that supposed to go? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u170	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u171	As far as regional radios are concerned, we cover and analyse the financial and programme plans that public broadcasters report to us. We have our calculators, because we can't do everything, not pay for everything. That's why it's so divisive. Regional radio stations in this division are treated very well. If we look at the percentage share in the financing of missionary activities, it can be seen that, once again, television has a share of twenty-seven percent, Polish Radio at 60%, 70% Depends on how to count And there's 79% in regional radio stations. In fact, support for regional radio stations in this allocation of subscription funds is very clear. The same applies to the Polish Television field offices. If we are talking about an overall amount of 365 million, 100 million of these were earmarked for financing the activities of regional centres. In the following year, this breakdown increased and was already 140 million, with an unchanged overall envelope for television. So this indication that, in a crisis situation, we save the locality first and foremost, is realized in this division of the subscription rather than another. This year we have accepted the subscription division for 2018, not knowing if there will be a new subscription bill. We have written down the mechanism that so far the division is the same as before, which is mostly saving regional centers, mainly investing in regional radio companies, helping them. But as the influence grows, we're gonna be throwing this money on TV just to uncommercialize it. About... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't know. The question of the protector of pedophiles and allies is not for me, of course. As far as allies are concerned, it's probably Mr. Kievsky, but that's not a question for the National Council either. I would answer like President Czabański said: I would not want to concentrate on this. The task and the important issue is to recolonise the media. We in the strategic directions of the National Radio and Television Council have set out our vision of measuring and indicating future rules on concentration in the media market. We're not talking about recolonization, we're talking about defocusing. We believe that the mechanism whereby a trader's market share must be 40% in order to be regarded as having a dominant position, it is absolutely insufficient in the media case. We're talking 30% share, but we've pointed to 20% share. It is about better defining these markets. We pointed out that cross-markets have to be measured, i.e. is not neutral whether the sender is simultaneously an advertising broker and an operator of the satellite platform or not. And you have to see it. I remind you that the competition, the bidding for the eighth multiplex, with which there are so many problems today, was won in UKE by EmiTela, the only technical sender in Poland. For its competitiveness, the sender gained 100%. This is how the current anti-concentration rules operate on the market. So that these are indications for the Ministry of Culture to work on such a law. There is a team and the National Council participates in this team. We're talking about concentration here. Another problem is the problem of concentration, as in the case of the TVN Group, where TVN is at the same time a large television broadcaster and one of the biggest advertising brokers. Because selling ads can often be linked... And these dependencies are dependencies that conflict with such healthy, equal competition. As far as recolonisation is concerned, these principles have been defined in the deconcentration mechanisms, because we believe that this is the biggest problem of the electronic media market today.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u172	Thank you very much. Please. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u173	Thank you very much, Marshal. I will return to the issue of journalists and the standards of their duties. Here I am thinking about what I asked Mr Czabański, the issue of attacks on journalists. I would like to ask you a broader question concerning not only journalists of Polish Television or Polish Radio, but also other journalists. Does the National Radio and Television Council monitor this problem? Is it possible to say that he is increasing at the moment, or is he at the same level as in previous years? And if this phenomenon occurs, what is the National Radio and Television Council doing in this area? I am referring mainly to particularly drastic cases which are being disclosed to the public. Thank you. [[Thank you...]] [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Sorry if I could ask... This last sentence raised doubts about the question.]] I'd just like to know if the National Radio and Television Council notes... Are there any reports of aggression against journalists fulfilling their duties, i.e. recording material, conducting interviews, participating in important events? It's about situations when journalists carry out their journalistic mission. Have such complaints been received by the National Council? I'm talking about 2016, because we're dealing with this period. If so, what kind of situations were these? What journalists and media were involved? And, above all, what were the activities of the National Radio and Television Council in this area?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u174	Thank you, Senator. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, Senator Fedorowicz asked for 12 thousand petitions with a request to revoke the concession for TVN and TVN24. I think that when he was talking about the pilots, he meant the possibility of switching channels and releasing themselves from content that is not acceptable. I would like to ask whether, in these petitions, there is also, in a very general way, a demand for media recolonization in the context of TVN concessions. Is it not noted here by the National Council that the coincidence with the decision of the tax administration, which imposed a penalty of PLN 110 million on TVN despite the favourable interpretation of the Minister of Finance issued in the previous term of office on the transaction that TVN carried out? Are there consultations with the National Council on this matter? Does the Council express its opinions and comments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u176	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u177	Thank you very much. As far as Senator Jackowski's question is concerned, we're not affected by this kind of complaint because we don't deal with this kind of thing. We're investigating screen or antenna events. We have at our disposal an article in the Act that says that you cannot promote illegal activities and attitudes that threaten life, health, etc. Such situations certainly threaten life and health. The issue of promotion, the question of whether there were elements on television or radio broadcasts indicating promotion, e.g. It would be a matter for the National Council to encourage or encourage certain actions. We have not had such complaints so far, but it would indeed be worth looking at everything from this point of view. The second question concerned coincidence. Well, I don't think he's here... These are absolutely different things. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But this is a purely fiscal matter. We know the IRS, and we know how they work. If there is an interpretation that an official can be responsible for the fact that the Treasury lost on such an interpretation and not on the inaction of 110 million PLN... This is certainly not a matter of any other pressure, it is simply a formula for the operation of tax offices. The finance resort during the analysis, and analyzing thousands of such cases, probably saw that the kind of operation that was... I don't know, the National Council doesn't really deal with such things from this side. That's what the Ministry of Finance is for. Well, it required paying the tax, and he wasn't paid. That 110 million is an outstanding tax for a very large transaction. Let me remind you that this was about the transaction. The National Council deals with this in turn. For the acquisition of the second largest satellite TV platform in Poland, i.e. about this merger Canal+ with nc+. The issue of repolonization records is a matter which... not of repolonization records, but of anti-concentration records, is an issue which equally affects all large groups of broadcasters. Whether it's TVN or it's Polsat Public television has 1/3 of the market, so it is also a very strong sender in this market Is there a big radio group... This applies equally to all these broadcasters. I hope that this process and the work on this law, the team in which the National Council is, is currently working at the Ministry of Culture The odium of some political revenge, revenge, or political activity will not be burdened, because it is equally... Besides, such records exist in other neighbouring and non-neighbourly European countries. In Poland, this market simply did not provide for a separate coverage of the media market than in the case of roads, shipyards, large industry or trade... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Kazimierz Kleina. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Two questions or two questions I'd like to ask you about. The first issue concerns the regional radio stations of the Polish Radio. Many senators pay attention to the importance of these radio stations, knowing that they actually play a very important role from the point of view of integrating local communities. I would therefore like to ask what is the financing method for these regional radio stations. Do individual radio stations receive funds according to some key, some system that is just and applies to all these radio stations, or is this done according to any scheme? Could it possibly be possible to verify how the individual regional radio stations are financed, whether it is really, I would say, proportionate to each of these radio stations? On this occasion... Do you monitor programs that broadcast the Polish Radio regional radio stations, at such an angle that... However, these programs are dominated by information about the centre in which there is a radio headquarters or a metropolis, etc., and the information from the area, from the region is basically small or smaller. The impression is that the entire social, cultural and political life takes place only in the centre of the region and there is a desert outside the region. That's the first problem. The second problem concerns public television, but also commercial television. For several years now, members of local tourism organizations from the Polish coast have drawn my attention to such a problem. Usually, often and even, you might say, mostly before the summer season in so-called programs. Breakfast TV is held in various types of debates, discussions, etc. And on these occasions very often there is discrediting the Polish Coast as a direction of holiday tourism, it is said that there is usually bad weather, bad conditions of the hotel base, etc., even the natural and historical values of this area are discredited. And in the second place immediately shows the charms of these other directions, countries, abroad, warm countries, etc., etc. And the members of these local tourist organizations ask if you do not see the problem, gentlemen, that some journalists We do not assume that the entire television system is somehow financed by tourist offices exporting tourists in these other directions than the Polish Coast. This is contrary to appearances of a very serious matter, it is clearly visible, it is not funny Here, one of the senators smiles gently. In fact, this is clearly seen in the media, even in printed media, but I do not pay attention to it here, because we are talking mainly about television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u180	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, I would like to repeat the question I asked Mr Czaban. Do you think it was necessary to set up a National Media Council? From your point of view, since you are not President of the National Radio and Television Council for the first time, you have already been and have experience in matters that the National Radio and Television Council has dealt with... Was there really a need to set up a National Media Council that basically took over from the National Council certain powers held by the National Council? Since the answer was, I would say, enigmatic and absolutely unconvincing, can you help Mr Czaban to justify this necessity if you see the rightness of this decision? And the second question is this. In the case of public television, we are dealing with a number of acts of non-reliability when it comes to journalists. It is the responsibility of the National Radio and Television Council to monitor television programmes, intervene and evaluate. I would like to ask if since the establishment of the National Council Because you did not perform this function throughout 2016 and under your leadership, this board of directors acted as an intervention on such irregularities and abuse of integrity and whether you reacted, how you reacted, with what effect. Watching the public television antennas, we see an ever-increasing activity rather related to the activities of the ruling party, not to what is called public television, or at least national television... More and more this television is moving away from the concept of national television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u182	Thank you. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u183	Going from the beginning, answering from the beginning, in the order of asking questions... The key is quite clear and we guard this division of subscription funds between regional companies of public radio. We are very careful to ensure that the rules are the same for everyone, because it is known that there would be very big problems later with any doubt about the justice of this division. So, yes, we monitor and, above all, analyze the financial and programme plans, because right now this is how this subscription is allocated, we define a scale, a percentage of funding for every minute, every hour of the programme, and we finance these programs. In addition, there are different broadcasting costs in companies; some have more expensive broadcasting, others have cheaper broadcasting. So we kind of take out the different fixed costs of broadcasting in regional centres outside of parentheses. I don't think there's any doubt here. Sometimes they appear, but after clarification, the CEOs of these companies accept our arguments. As far as the funding of regional television centres is concerned, as I said, the subscription funding applies to the whole television system, but we are spending a significant part on regional centres, only that it is then the board that decides which centres are supported and at what level. It's a backup. In addition, it is our resolution, the National Council, which was decided in June, on the allocation of funds for 2018, that we decided to increase from 100 million to 140 million, which is directly intended to finance the activities of regional public television centres. So next year this growth should be very noticeable, even with this subscription level. As far as demand coverage is concerned, it is such as covering the company's business needs in the case of subscription support, i.e. less than 20%. I told you, that's 20%. is for missionary activity, but if we consider the entire activity of the company, it will be less than 20%. In short, we may require certain plans and assumptions within this 20%. Hence, perhaps this, in quotes, power is limited. She will increase if the share of subscription money is greater. Is there a need for National Media Radio? National Media Radio was created with the aim of creating national media. And this plan is not buried, so it is needed in the context of the creation of these national media; I hope it will be implemented. And that's the meaning of the National Media Council. The integrity of journalists. The senator was talking about TVP journalists being unreliable. We have complaints about the integrity of journalists of various stations, even mostly about the reliability of commercial stations, because here is probably a bigger problem. And, of course, we respond. There's been a few reminders... This is generally described in the report, but it was for example. such a warning regarding the lack of accuracy of very important information, which involves the signing of guests. This case was quite intensively described in the media, it was one of TVN's programs Do you have a description of certain... I'm not going to talk about specific broadcasts here anymore. So there are examples. We respond, we admonish broadcasters, and if the case is more serious, of course we have other tools at our disposal, and if the situation is repeated, then also penalties. So... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I would like to ask if your marshal would allow...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u184	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u185	If consequences are being drawn, what kind of consequences are they? And what are the consequences of these consequences, the effects of antennas? Does your activity in drawing consequences, if any, have an aerial effect? The point is that the viewer who is to pay this subscription may notice that, however, some activity in this area is being undertaken by the National Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u186	But the senator is still talking about the activity of only one TV station, and I'm talking about the lack of credibility of journalists working at different stations. Well, in a few commercials, the presidents simply react if there is a call; sometimes the program is suspended or the journalist is suspended and provides explanations. Well, such situations were, took place in 2016 and will take place. At the moment, I'd have to recreate which were specific situations, but I don't think it's about a specific Senator's show. In the case of both public television and commercial television, such situations have taken place. These consequences were first drawn by employers, i.e. by the presidents or owners of the television. Yeah, and then there's a reprimand, a call from the sender to stop and punish. These penalties were imposed for various reasons several times in 2016. On page 52 they are listed. [[Thank you very much. And Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome...]] [[What about my questions?]] [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister...]] [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but still...]] Yeah, the other questions... [[Please.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I told you about the funding, but I forgot to discredit the coast. The charge is pretty serious, because this is about actions that... Yeah, well, you'd have to have a basis for making that charge. All I have is a suggestion that if there are such analyses You said the tourist chambers had them. Well, well, well, [[Tourist organizations.]] Yes, tourist organizations, so that tourist organizations may present their analysis... I believe that it is the duty of the public broadcaster to promote domestic tourism, not only tourism, but also tourism. Anyway, I'm going, Mr. Senator, to the Polish coast. [[It concerns both commercial and public. It's not just public, it's commercial...]] [[Does this answer satisfy...]] Yeah, 'cause commercial television can be connected to their contracts, business, not just national affairs. It's not like TVN will only promote American companies and German RMF. It's about normal trade deals in some sort of exchange. It's not affected. If there is information about irreality, which is, in short, the fact that in the commercial sender in the form of information about the weather or in some publication there is a hidden advertisement... This is not allowed and, of course, this should be reacted to as much as possible. [[That's the kind of practice I'm talking about.]] Yes, any advertising, placed the same product, must have an appropriate label on the air. The consignee must be aware that he is subject to such commercial activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u188	Thank you. Minister, regulatory strategies should be, are and were useful for the work of the council, but also useful to media market participants. The last strategy covered the period 2014/2016, i.e. it has already expired. What is the current state of work in this area, and on the basis of what documents at the moment, what programming strategy is the Council working on? That's the first question. Two. The National Radio and Television Council supported the so-called construction programme. digital library of public media. It was a joint venture... This is a technology system on which media interaction can be based in the future. Public funds were involved and the digital library programme was to be completed last year. Is he continuing, or has he been suspended, and if he's stopped, then why?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you.]] And Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u190	I have three questions. First: how stable is the situation with Belsat TV financing? The second concerns the implementation of the 2011 Regulation on the availability of time for NGOs. Of course, I do not mean that accusations about NGOs appear, only those broadcasts that should be created in cooperation with organisations. Because organizations write to me, they say no one asked them, and they scorn them all the time. So did the National Council react? You also have reports... This report does not mention this. I don't know why. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is it that you are ignoring this case at all? It's a statutory obligation. Just so you can tell me... [[Voice from the Chamber: It is in the report.]] Well, I was trying to find it. I didn't make it. If I'm wrong... The disabled, yes, you write about these things, but I haven't found any non-governmental organizations. And one more thing. There is a big alert to medical environments about advertising products so-called. Prosperity Because you can doubt whether they are such, these dietary supplements, medical devices, special purpose medicinal products and others. You are writing about this and indeed the data is appalling. Well, if it's public television that's ahead of everyone else, and 1/3 of the ads are for that. In commercial, it's better because the average is only 20%. What does the National Radio and Television Council do on this issue? Because I have the impression, as a viewer, that it's getting worse and worse, and these data actually confirm it. How are you going to deal with this problem? Because I feel like sometimes we poison Poles with power.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u191	Thank you very much. Please respond to the President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u192	I ask you, as regards the strategy, this strategy is, after consultation, in its framework, as directions, has been consulted, a dozen large environments, large actors All broadcasters, chambers, producers and certain government departments spoke about it. It covers areas such as public media, such as concentration, such as further television digitisation, such as radio digitisation, such as must carry The must offer, such as the issue of further expansion or non-enlargement of the television market. So that these strategic orientations are after the consultation stage, they are suspended on the site, on the basis of which we are working. As far as the Digital Library of Public Media is concerned, we are continuing this project, and it has been allocated PLN 10 million. At the moment we have increased work, because on the basis of the Digital Library of Public Media will be built a horizontal portal of public media with a common infrastructure, which has already been partially realized, with reconstruction, digitalization and reconstruction of archives, etc., etc. So all that public domain media are going to share in one place will be based on the infrastructure that was built, and on the concept that was built just for the Digital Library of Public Media... So we're not just continuing, we're expanding this project a lot. I do not know much about the financing of Belsat TV, because it involves financing the Polonia Television, and this in turn involves not a subscription, but government-powered money, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and at the moment it is a matter of sharing the funds that have been transferred to it or will be transferred to television, as much as Belsat TV will participate in it. Yeah, but it's a decision of the television board and possible arrangements with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so I can't say any more about it. Non-governmental organisations. Of course, we monitor these issues all the time, we also describe them. There was a point that we were paying attention to public television, but it... it was related to 2017, so it is not yet included in this report. A public broadcaster has a duty to reserve a certain time, and it is on all its antennas, both national and regional, and it does so. It's not always like this... And that's what the presidents of the media companies, the public, complained about, that it's not so much that they have so many offers, i.e. NGOs do not present such a rich offer that they would have fulfilled all this time. But there are special times, legally guaranteed, and that's what we're watching. And when something happens, we pay attention. And that's what we've been paying attention to. The issue of generalising certain issues concerning non-governmental organisations that took place on television was also the subject of my addressing the president of television, and this was also made public. Advertisement of dietary supplements. Yes, we're describing this problem, we're investigating, we actually have the widest market analysis on this issue. The Ministry of Health, in turn, runs a team in which we participate. Because it is the Ministry of Health that will regulate this issue. However, we note that this is a very important segment of the market, very sensitive and important also for the broadcasters themselves, so these... In every plan... It's just not easy to just ban advertising dietary supplements, because we'd take them off the market, for example. 1/3 of the advertising money. This does not mean that this money would not be included in the advertising of other goods or services, but it is a very important issue. So you have to act here. Not because of public television, because it's not just public television that's leading in this kind of advertising. But there's actually a lot of... a lot of smaller, specialized TV, cable, or satellite programs that live only on this kind of commercial. So that we are rather at the stage of creating a code of good practice. There was a proposal from one pharmaceutical community that was unsatisfactory. There's work to be done on the other one right now. Together with the Advertising Council, we will try to create such a code of good practice and gather everyone together to sign, i.e. to create another self-regulation tool. This is the best way, in our opinion, the most appropriate way. The problem of advertising unhealthy food has been practically solved by such self-regulation. There is no need for large criminal sanctions, but it is enough to create a mechanism in which the market will regulate itself. And that's what we want to do when it comes to... And this is our proposal for the Ministry of Health to advertise dietary supplements.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u193	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u194	Mrs Marshal, Mr President, the Constitution obliges public broadcasters to guarantee equal opportunities for all parties to present their positions in public media. With the naked eye, you can see how programs are observed, especially publicist or informational, that there is a marked disturbance here. Some analysts claim that Law and Justice took 70% antenna time, which is intended for all lots. Does the National Council take any action or analyze, measure, and draw any conclusions from this? And if so, what is it? I'm gonna need some information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u195	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u196	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to follow the last question, even in part the senator has taken up the content of my question, but in a slightly different context. Namely monitoring programs, especially news, widely understood political journalism... My question concerns both public and commercial media. My question is as follows. Namely, also based on the sense rather than hard data, I have the impression that Poles watching TVN news, for example, and then the news of the 1st public television program, have the impression that they live in two Polands, which involves both differences in information, differences in interpretations of information as well as a very deep difference as regards invited guests. You can say that from this only a package of differences, very clear, you can of course make a general conclusion that someone is lying and there is truth in one program, and in the other there is a lie, but it would be too simple. I hope that the National Radio and Television Council does not complete this description of monitoring on such a mere expression of view. The question is, do you have tools, such as the present Mrs Teresa Bochwic, who had such tools in the form of her own mind and discernment and at one time, in 2011, wrote a very important and interesting report on the subject of monitoring... de facto monitoring the media, only from the position of the Polish Association is the most important. This report was then created under the auspices of this association. Is the National Radio and Television Council able to carry out such reports cyclically, in principle every year, showing on the one hand this mechanism of total differences in commercial and public media, the difference in broadcasting information, giving interpretation to these informations and giving media to key guests? Were these studies ever done in 2016 or 2017? If not, I have a request that, even using the knowledge of Mrs. Teresa Bochwic, such research be carried out on a regular basis every year and passed on to the public. Because, as I understand it, one of the most important tasks of the National Radio and Television Council is, however, to seek through this monitoring some way out of the situation where we are as a Polish nation, a situation where we are horribly divided, and one of the places that... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: This is a lecture, not a question.]] ...it serves this division, there's the media. And it can be seen with the naked eye, you don't need any research: media are part of the division of Polish society. Therefore, what mechanisms, apart from monitoring, could possibly serve not so much to bring positions closer, because obviously there is no chance that in this case the media would want to change just because someone snaps a finger, because these are serious interests that are behind it, as I understand... [[Four minutes.]] The question is what tools you as the National Council have and whether you can see the work on this analysis of reality and the transmission of results to the public so that it does not get lost in the current reality. That's for now, because it was a long question, that's all. But I'll have another vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u197	Thank you very much. Please answer me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u198	Oh, yeah, that's... That question is difficult to answer briefly. As far as this balance is concerned and as far as the presentation of political parties is concerned, we have these reports from the media, we are analysing them. And what Mr. Senator said was that there's an advantage right now... There's not an 80%... [[70%.]] The advantage of the current coalition... of the current party, if we're talking about the ruling parties, of the coalition... But this is a very similar situation from two years ago, only the opposite. So to put it simply, where the government is... there's a lot more reporting about this party that's in charge, because there's a lot more information about governments, about resorting, government, ministerial matters, and so on. So these sensational discoveries aren't sensational, because they're exactly... that's exactly the same thing. There are, of course, special programmes to which political parties delegate their representatives. These programmes are intended to serve as an equal presentation of political views. There's a lot of complaining on the part of the spectators. It's coming to us too. That it is not a formula that allows the debate that such a discussion does not allow to draw conclusions that, if everyone contradicts each other, it is not a good formula. But this is the implementation of the demand for equal access. There, due to the nature and political scene, opposition parties have a great advantage over the ruling party, because simply in the Seym There's more. Do media deepen social division in Poland? They deepen, sometimes they make it. I think they're an essential part of this landscape, so it's hard to say what was first. But they're definitely involved. That's the analysis we have, but these are random analyses. We have analysed this especially at such important moments, for example during the events in December, when the media actually often turned on the whole atmosphere, participated in events and how they were reported by 3 different TV stations was completely different. We see it, and we analyze it. We can describe it. We can point out how to show facts that do not have to be consistent with a lie, because it is not a denial of reality, but another interpretation of a given fact. It already changes the picture of the whole situation or the narration itself, the leading commentary or the choice and order of speeches, or the frequency of repeating them. Yes? That it doesn't matter. It is very difficult to show and capture, but only in such a comprehensive analysis can differences be detected. It is definitely so that often these are 2 different, extremely different, images of the same reality. But the problem is yet another, namely recently, this is what we've been dealing with in recent months actually. The media only show part of reality. What President Andrzej Duda was talking about at the press conference with Trump That TV stations, this was about TVN, even ignored his visit to their news programs, his very important foreign visit It shows that this game of information goes on and on and on and on. Or even not seeing very important information, which in other media are number one, omission. Indeed, certain mechanisms are beginning to develop, as if we lived in 2 different Polands, in 2 different realities, where some events are reported and others are not. Two paintings. This goes further, because this is also reflected in this information bubble on social networks. That's what happens there. [[Mrs. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u199	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u200	In corrigendum mode. [[Please.]] Mr President, in my question I have included such information that according to analysts 70% antenna time, which is for all parties, occupies the PiS. You seem to have answered that it is not true that 80% Takes up the PiS. Then I would ask you to answer me in writing how much, because you are analyzing this situation, what is the percentage... [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: I am about to give you this situation...]] ...the planning of aerial time, which is for all parties, by one batch, that is, by PiS. [[It's an act of expropriation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u201	I said... I didn't mean 80% or 70%. Only that a similar situation, only the opposite, took place during the previous term of government. Yes? [[It was supposed to be better.]] [[I'm just talking about detailed information.]] It's a mechanism. It's better, but... [[But you have a short memory.]] ...it's a mechanism. [[What's the amount? What's the time of 100%?]] [[Mr. Senator, would you like a written answer to that question?]] [[Yes, Mrs. Marshal, unless there's an answer in the next few minutes during this debate. Thank you.]] [[Good.]] It's better in writing. Well, what I'm gonna read... It's a matter of... [[Mr. Chairman, why don't we just...]] ...comparison of the year 2015 to 2016. 73 hours 16 minutes 48 seconds. PO-PSL coalition; opposition then: PiS, SLD, Poland Total United Right and Solidarna Polska. 44 hours 45 minutes. In 2016, the governing coalition, i.e. PiS, Solidarna Polska and Poland Total. 81 hours, and the opposition 40 hours 45... [[Voice from the room: Oh, little.]] [[Isn't that enough? 40 hours too much.]] These posts look very similar. I'll pass it on, of course. There are differences, but I think it's small. It's not...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u202	Good. I understand that the President will complete this in writing. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Yes.]] Now, please, you ask the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u203	Thank you. Minister, you were talking about evaluating the programs and interventions that the National Council is taking in a situation of some bad, bad... not that bad, just false communication or a message that is quite harmful in terms of health, let's assume. Tell me, did the journalist who accused NGOs of politicising... of political activity, of course against the government, and, therefore, resented, intervened by Deputy Prime Minister Gliński, have any consequences? The second question concerns the talk show, which I believe Mr Maciej Pawlicki and someone else were conducting. This talk show was last year. He promoted anti-vaccine organizations, which is a very harmful activity, which causes us to inoculate fewer and fewer children in Poland. This, in turn, caused outrage to the Minister of Health, Radziwilla. Was there an intervention in this case, and was there some kind of national council statement? It was on public television. That's the other thing. And the third question. Why did public television stop working with Owsiak and support the activities of the Great Christmas Aid Orchestra, which brings over 100 million dollars each time when it comes to hospital equipment and also promotes public television? It's not just promoting this action because it also works the other way. Could you explain that, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u204	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions related to this difficult document, i.e. information on basic radio and television problems in 2016. The first concerns the situation of Polish Television in general. From the information we've read here. I'll quote it right away. We can conclude that in 2016 there was a decline in the audience of universal programs. The two programmes of the Polish Television, One and Two are such programs. For specialized programmes. And my question is: don't you think that Poland's Television is too little expansive looking for those niches in which it could find an additional audience? We have TVP Entertainment and TVP Culture, but there is no such specialized program as TVP Music. And yet TV has very large archival resources and it would only be enough to put them on the screen without any major comments, without any major expenditure. Just like music from the old days. From the 1960s, it returns on various radio antennas, as it could come back in TV form, especially since, as I said, Polish Television is actually a monopolist here. And the second question is, what do you think is such a disproportion as to the issue of regional radio stations? TVP3 has a market share of 0.97% , and regional public radio stations At 5,2%. That's over five times the difference. Why is regional radio heard more often than regional television is viewed, although they should actually broadcast the same information, the same messages, and reach the same audience?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u206	Is that the end of the question? Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u207	Were there any consequences to the author of the non-governmental column? I have also intervened on this issue. I wrote a letter to the president, but I don't know if the consequences have been taken out. [[Voice from the O.R.: No, they weren't.]] And I don't even expect that because these actions have worked. This kind of material doesn't come up, so I wouldn't want any consequences from the TV board. It is enough that these actions have worked. As for the editor of Pawlicki and the program about vaccines, I know that public television broadcasted various programs. Some shared the views of an environment that was reluctant to vaccinate and fight vaccinations, and other programmes, often broadcast in the same series, presented a site that supported widespread vaccinations. Is that what happened in this case? I don't think so, but there were other programs. I think even two in the same cycle were They took it into account. Editor Pawlicki lost the program as a result of other complaints related to the journalistic provocation in which he spoke about the arrest... I can't remember when it was. This was the famous announcement of the program in which the editor Pawlicki spoke about arresting an important platform policy. We have noted a certain impropriety here, but the editor Pawlicki applied such provocation and immediately informed the audience that it was a provocation, so in my private opinion the actions of the TV president were too radical. If this really was the reason for the photo of the editor of Pawlicki and the removal of this program, then I take it as an unjustified act. I wouldn't see the basis for such consequences. About... [[And that's what you stood up for him? Sorry, that's an extra question.]] Excuse me? [[You stood up for Pawlicki's editor about that?]] I did not defend him, but I did not share a position that pointed to such an important responsibility. We could start a discussion, but because it was all after the fact, after the release of the editor Pawlicki, then this discussion didn't make sense anymore. Anyway, it was never the official reason for the editor's cancellation, although the president of the TV explained it that way anyway. If I were asked for my opinion then, yes, I would defend myself. I think it was completely unjustified. The journalist who said something said right away that it was just a provocation, he took it all into quotes... Really, outrage, in my opinion, was disproportionate. When it comes to resigning from the transmission of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid, we also need to ask the President of Polish Television why he did so, but there is also a question, as I understand it, of image. Since the face of this orchestra, Mr. Jerzy Owsiak, is publicly discrediting the company he's supposed to be working with, I guess it's hard to count on the development of such a form of cooperation. And I'm sure it's decided, but it's the president of the TV to have to talk about it. But, as I understand it, mostly that's what it's all about, it's hard to do this kind of anti-advertisement thing on your own air. And let's remind you that these gigantic programming and advertising times, which means the cost on the television side has always been very high. TVN, to which the Great Orchestra moved, invested much less, invested much less time on the main air and gave less time on specialized antennas. As far as the expansion of television is concerned, these are good examples. Because TVP ABC is the most developing thematic channel on all televisions, in these several hundred programs in Polish. As far as TVP History and Culture are concerned, they also have a well-established position, although there are no current productions in History. Well, I hope that changes. Public television is planning to launch a real hit if there was a stable financing of the TVP Sport decoding. Everywhere you have to pay for sports and, worse than that, you have to pay different operators and different platforms depending on what sport you prefer, because someone else has rights to the ball, someone else has rights to the slag, someone else has rights to the retina. So this move from the sender, the creation of an open antenna with the most important sporting events, would really be something worth fighting for by introducing a subscription. That's what you have to remember. We are not only thinking about information programs, but mainly about such things, these are the biggest costs. As far as the musical idea is concerned, I know that there is such an idea, to create such a musical program, although it is not that there are recordings with concerts in television resources, because every time you have to pay, you have to solve the copyright problem. This is all expensive, and requires great efforts and legal work to resolve copyright issues. And, of course, I hope that there will be a lot of podcasts, there will be a big, expansive even, aggressive fight of all public broadcasters on the Internet, so that... Today, public television VOD is a very dynamic service, there is a very big traffic... these are tens of millions of users on the television website and I hope it will develop. When it comes to the difference between local television and radio, the reason may be simple. Local television has up to 5 hours of broadcasts per day, including premiere broadcasts is an hour, two hours, and the radio broadcasts 24 hours a day. And that's the difference in this market share. Well, the radio position, the local radio position is much stronger, but it also involves the cost of radio production and radio activity to the cost of television activity is 1:10, i.e. from the money we have, much easier to build and maintain a regional radio station. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u208	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u209	Thank you very much. I have a question about such a reality past, concerning the present reality. Namely in the 1990s, in short, of course, when concessions were divided in terms of commercial television TVN and Polsat, radio stations Zetka, RMF FM... Against this background, in society practically... In a society, which at that time in about 93% She declared that she was a follower of the Catholic Church, the only radio that had broken through the decision-makers of that time, and it was thanks to the sacred memory of Ryszard Bender that Radio Maryja, from which the Television Trwam grew. The question is how, against the background of this underdevelopment in terms of tolerance towards their own society, in which people at that time decisively lived and made such decisions... From the perspective of the National Radio and Television Council, what is the condition of the widely understood religious media in the 1990s? Can it be said that from the point of view of satisfying the natural needs of Catholics and civil rights in Poland, media are functioning in such a proportion that they fulfil this condition of human and citizen rights?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u210	Thank you, Senator. And Mr. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u211	Minister, I would like to ask again about missionary issues, this time in relation to the activities of regional radio companies. What I'm talking about is referring to the data that you're giving, which is interesting. Namely, the vast majority of regional companies do not create and disseminate programmes for local communities, but they are intended to serve these communities. At least as far as cost analysis is concerned, this is how it goes: 0.0 Except for a few examples, because they are. So what's interesting is why Wroclaw could spend 1.5 million on this... [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Can you give us a page?]] This is page 61. Why can Wroclaw spend nearly 1.5 million and most of them can't do anything? And why can small centers like Koszalin do a little bit, and big ones like my Poznan can't do anything? What's it to do with, or am I actually judging? Because I understand you've been collecting this data for some reason.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u212	Yes. I'm the one who's gonna say it's all about the city programs. This table entitled "Creating and disseminating programmes for local communities" refers to urban programmes that simply have them on the radio. [[But that doesn't change much about my question about why.]] I mean, it changes completely, because it's not... It's not about... it's about business and some strategy of a local regional company. One has launched an additional urban program, apart from its main program, and another has not started. If she started one of these, that's where they have the costs, and that's how it works. But it's not... [[Thank you for explaining.]] There you go. [[Thank you very much. Then I'm asking you to answer Senator Zarin's question.]] I will remind you that the presence of the Church in the media was one of those postulates posted on the gate of Gdańsk Shipyard, so these are postulates which are very important and have been for a long time. No, of course I don't think it's done. It's just that there was... a lot of work being done in the purposes, thanks to which, among other things. Every diocese has a right and a frequency so it can have a radio station. Television is worse, because it's hard to keep such television on the market. But it can't be said that if the station didn't hold up, it's clearly the fault of those who organized it and couldn't keep it. These concessions, which were initially allocated by the National Council in the 1990s, gave these broadcasters, these broadcasters, also market positions. And it's no coincidence that today TVN and Polsat are the biggest commercial televisions This is because it was then that these broadcasters were licensed and were able to develop this position, and then the market looked completely different. So, if there were other opportunities for broadcasters associated with the Church or religious broadcasters, they might also have a different position. Another situation was on the radio because diocesan stations appeared earlier and they are, they function, apart from those that were incorporated into the Puls... [[Voice from the room: Plus.]] ... plus, and then they were split, sold and function today in two different structures. One is related to Zetka, the other is related to ZPR. I smiled so much because I remembered that it was Mr. Arab Minister... well, then not the Minister, but the Arab Minister participated in this merge and then sharing and selling these... [[And who was in charge of the Plus?]] Well, I'm just saying I'm laughing because two characters Today quite famous on the political market... [[Name it.]] ...that's the Arab Minister and Father Kazimierz... [[Owl.]] The Owl, yeah, they were driving... Our monitoring shows that these independent, non-associated diocesan stations have a much better local offer, so we try to strengthen them where there is a possibility. Unfortunately, it is also a matter of decision of bishops in individual dioceses... Recently the Lublin radio has just gone online Plus, which we have noted with sadness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u213	Thank you very much. And Mr. Krzysztof Elephant. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, how do you assess the functioning of regional programming councils in the context of their usefulness in ensuring the quality of broadcasts, including in particular their mission? Do you think that the Programme Boards operate at the same level of substance, or would some of them require, to be put mildly, some changes in their functioning? The second question concerns technical and investment issues. Do you see the need to strengthen technical, local and hardware resources in regional media? Isn't it simple not... Does not the shortcomings in this regard have a simple impact on the quality of the programmes being broadcast and implemented? Thank you. [[Anybody else want to ask you a question?]] [[I'd still have...]] [[There you go, Mr. Senator.]] [[Now can I?]] [[Yes, of course.]] The question is whether the National Council was surprised by a rather noisy issue of conflict around the National Festival of Polish Song in Opole... [[But it's already been done.]] Was that a question? [[It was, it was.]] Sorry, I didn't hear the answer. And have you taken a position on this issue that in the future could somehow protect our media reality, including the historical one, from such events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u215	Thank you. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u216	As far as Opole is concerned, I've actually answered that question. But since it's the second time, I'm gonna allow myself to make an even more general statement. It's lost here. Although I'm hoping it'll work out. First of all, it's the city itself. Because it is known that this city is known Not only is it known, but in this context known, please do not misunderstand me Because of the festival, not the festival is famous for its city. So first a festival was created and there was a brand built on it, which Opole is of course a very important element, but the same festival can be built and created in any other city. And I think President Opole's greater sense would be very appropriate. Moreover, the city council issued such an opinion in its resolution. It is very regrettable that such conflicts later translate, and are unfortunately also strengthened, into a situation in which they lose both sides. As far as programming boards are concerned, it's up to the media council. Indeed, there is a mechanism that has been the same mechanism for years, since the start of the act, i.e. the indication, the political choice of politicians is not conducive to such consensusal compositions that would be developed, although there are councils that are able to work for the benefit of a given centre, a local radio station or a regional television centre to cooperate and create some good. This is not common in this model. I also have experience from the Polish Radio Programme Council and I know that discussions are more of a parliamentary debate than a programme evaluation. Mistakes... As I understand it, it's about financial deficits, it's about funding regional centres, local media. [[For example, the construction of new centres and hardware shortages.]] Yeah, but that's what the funding is about. It is also related to the program offer, i.e. that it is only 2 hours, that it is up to 2 hours of premiere production per day, if we are talking about television, because it is the big, biggest cost. First of all, we think that, first of all, we will be able to create... we will be able to improve the situation with the subscription and this should automatically be reflected in the functioning of regional radio and television centres, and second, then these centres will have more antennas. If they have more antennas, there will also be new programming projects, new broadcasts and, which is very important, greater integration of the local environment. Ladies and gentlemen, as the transmission of the local football or basketball league disappeared, the league was disappearing. This league was based on this hour broadcast somewhere Saturday or Sunday afternoon. If we get these centres to start producing it, it's really going to be a very important part of building a local environment. Then also advertising can be if we are talking about some solutions and advertising support. This will also greatly strengthen radio companies. Plus, we're thinking that based on the Digital Media Library, where we already have a network of fiber optics, and we've got all the public television centers plugged in, and if we have TV centers, we can hook up the radio station easily with fiber optics... So we already have one big virtual network of all these public media companies and we can create local public media portals with tourist information, for example. about the Coast or other landmarks, with its own weather forecast and, above all, with archives concerning the area, a given location that will not be interested in Internet users from another region, but locally will be very valuable. So the potential to use is very large, but for now it needs to be rebuilt, because production has always been reduced every year, hence investment shortages and at the moment everything is really falling apart in many centres.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u217	Thank you very much. I don't see any more... [[Me too.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Come on.]] [[It's too bad for you.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u218	Thank you. That's how I listened and... Would you mind telling me what it was about building a local bond? When TV showed basketball, that basketball was, and if it doesn't show, this basketball is gone? [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Yes, that's right.]] I don't really understand. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: This must be understood.]] I'm from Green Mountain, where there's basketball and there's speedway. Speedway is broadcasted by encrypted TV, and she's fine because sponsors pay big money and people watch it. Basketball's on TVP, probably even in the open channel, if I'm not mistaken, and it's got poor ratings. What does it have to do with whether the TV is or isn't there?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u219	Speedway is in several voivodships and that's where it develops. It's about these more and less popular sports, and above all about teams that aren't first- or second-class teams, they're just playing the local league. The experience so far was that at the moment when some... I don't want to insult anybody, so I'm not gonna tell you what club it was or what city it was from, but when this club played in its league and was shown on local television 'Cause, of course, no national station could be shown That's when they were sponsors. Someone was teaching some money and you could keep the stadium. When it disappeared, it suddenly turned out that there are no market mechanisms to maintain investment in this sport. It's a simple rule: show me, and I'll find the sponsors. Today, many valuable events, not just sports, begin with organizing a letter of intent to one or another TV, so that it is shown somewhere at all. And in regional centers there was indeed a chance to show such events of minor importance that had no chance to be found in those... And that's the role of local media. Local media without financial, budget, subscription support do not have a chance to stay on the market, and this is seen not only in the history of Polish local media, but also in the way this market developed in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Oh, I'd still like to complete what I said about those comparisons, because you senators asked me that. Well, I said that in the Polish Television it is similar as it was in 2015, but in the Polish Radio the situation is completely opposite, i.e. there are more opposition parties than the governing parties. In 2015, this proportion was reversed, so here is the information that Polish Radio prefers the Civic Platform, Modern, Kukiza and PSL, and earlier, for another government, preferred the Platform and PSL. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for the comprehensive answers to your senators' questions. I inform you that the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Witold Kołodziejski, has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by... Are you Senator Klein? There isn't. ...Senator Kazimierz Kleina and Senator Sławomir Rybicki. Ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, I now open a joint discussion. [[And the reports?]] Oh, yeah, yeah. Excuse me. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to submit a report to the committee on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u221	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to report on the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016. Before I read the report, I would like to say that this meeting took place, there was a very turbulent discussion, Mr Czabański was not present, but he was justified because we agreed... On his behalf, the report was submitted by Mrs Joan Lichock. There was also a separate sentence made by Mr Julius Braun. And after the discussion... I read: After hearing the information of the members of the National Media Council and having held the discussion at its meeting on 27 June 2017. The Commission shall present a draft resolution of the Senate, supported by a majority of votes, in which it requests the adoption of Information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016. Signed: Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, Jerzy Fedorowicz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. And I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture... [[Oh, Jackowski.]] ...and means of transmission, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present a report to the committee on the report of the 2016 National Radio and Television Council. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] [[It's the chairman...]] [[I don't think that's necessary.]] [[And there's a surrogate procedure if he's not here?]] [[I don't think we need a report anymore.]] [[Well, the chairman can.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The President shall submit.]] [[What do you mean, the committee's report for information? Oh, come on.]] [[Well, it's been divided. Vice-President...]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damian: No, no.]] Wait a minute. [[Wait for the decision.]] Ladies and gentlemen, take two minutes. Senator Jackowski is about to show up. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, since Senator Jackowski is not here... You're welcome. [[There you go. Except I can also answer questions if they are, because I'm finally president.]] [[Voice from the room: He runs from the Sejm.]] Oh, he's running from the Sejm. Mr. Chairman, he's running from the Sejm, so maybe... [[So he won't have a heart attack.]] No, he'll be here in half a minute, and since he wanted to report so badly, let's just... [[Voices from the hall: Oh!]] Oh, please. [[Voices from the hall: Oh, there it is.]] Sir... [[The card's already on the table because I was supposed to...]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome. [[Do as I do, take it and read it. There's a card on the table.]] Please, Mr. Senator. Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u223	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the National Radio and Television Council! Invited guests! I'm sorry, I've been listening to the debate in the Seym for a while, because there's so much going on in parallel, but here I am. I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, to recommend to the High House the adoption of the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2016. I would like to draw attention to a few elements. For the first time in history, since there has been a law on radio and television, we are dealing with separation. Once this report of the National Radio and Television Council covered all media issues that were attributed to the National Radio and Television Council. Since 2016... As you know, the Act on the National Media Council has been adopted. Therefore, this report or this point in total has been divided into 2 points, although we process them together. And there's one thing that's worth paying attention to. Namely, we treat this in such a way that we are dealing with the continuity of the constitutional institution, because the National Council of Radiophony and Television is a constitutional body, enshrined in the Constitution, and since 12 September, after the expiry of the six-year term of the previous National Council of Radiophony and Television, which was chaired by Mr Jan Dworak, we have its current composition, headed by President Kołodziejski. And that's the first element. And the second, as I mentioned, is that there was also the formation of the National Media Council, which in turn took over part of the competence of the National Radio and Television Council, mainly in the field of creating authorities of media companies, i.e. Polish Television, Polish Press Agency, as well as Polish Radio and regional companies of Polish Radio. As for the course of our debate at the committee meeting, what was of interest to the senators... The discussion was actually about these two areas, because they were necessarily connected. The Senators were interested in the issues of software councils in public companies, the issue of subscription law, because such topics appeared in discussions, monitoring the content of TV and radio programmes and broadcasts, and the concession policy of the National Radio and Television Council in 2016. Interestingly, during the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media, the request for a report on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council was adopted unanimously, while during the meeting of the Senate Committee on Culture and Media the votes were divided, and part of the senators voted against, although the contribution of the National Radio and Television Council chaired by Jan Dworak, which is until 12 September, also opinion... the activities of the National Radio and Television Council, well, it can be said, negatively, since they supported the proposal to reject this report. I say this as a curiosity, but it also shows what was the situation at the Senate Committee on Culture and Media. In view of the result of the vote, because 5 senators voted in favour of the report, 4 voted against, in view of the positive recommendation, we also propose to the High House a draft resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council, which I will allow myself to read: the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the basis of an article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Act of 29 December 1992 on Radio and Television adopts the report of the National Radio and Television Council of its activities in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u224	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. Thank you very much. I'm opening a joint discussion. And to speak, please, Senator Czesław Ryszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! State Members of the National Radio and Television Council! Thank you very much for both information and, above all, for your work in a situation of total criticism by so-called. Total opposition. Thank you for the factual, calm answers to the senators' questions, according to our Chamber of Intellectual Reflections. But the debate is governed by a little bit of other laws, there will certainly be more emotions, which is why I am announcing some of these emotions. The 2016 report of the National Radio and Television Council covers, as President Jackowski mentioned, only a few months of the Council's activities, because last September the Council's term of office as a member of the PO-PSL-SLD coalition lasted. The members of this council, let me put it simply, cared only for the interests of the parties from which they came. On TVP or in Polish Radu rarely were experts, publicists, creators or artists with different views than the parties mentioned. As a result, antennas, editors, and programs were stubborn. Many journalists who had the courage to openly criticize the government of Donald Tusk or Ewa Kopacz were expelled from TVP. Several hundred journalists were dumped into companies that didn't have employment contracts. It was supposed to heal public television finances. I believe that in the report presented, the National Radio and Television Council did not critically refer to its predecessors for the past six months. As for information about the activities of the National Media Council in 2016, it is also by nature very short, because it not only covers a short period, but above all we do not have the announced large media law or subscription law, but only referring to them, will be possible e.g. assess how all public radio companies, national television and the Polish Press Agency operate. I would like to focus my attention on the issue that has been discussed here a lot, namely the issue of the subscription law that the current President of the National Media Council was working on when he was Deputy Minister of Culture and National Heritage. He promised to give it as soon as possible. Well, unfortunately... We look forward to this project. While waiting, it is necessary to remind you of the appalling actions of this so-called. Total opposition. The President of the Civic Platform, Mr Grzegorz Schetyn, at the meeting of the National Council of the Civic Platform, called on Poles to disobey and not pay a radio and television subscription. The PO leader went further than Donald Tusk in 2007, calling on Poles to break the law. He said this: if it is so that Parliament, at the request of the TVP, will accept the increase of the racket on this television, we will call for civil disobedience and non-payment of this fee. He continued: we will not leave those who will be bullied for not paying their subscription; they will be able to count on compensation; I promise you this. This is a particularly outrageous declaration. Those who will not pay the subscription will be rewarded for this after the Civil Platform has taken over power, this is not only a clear violation of the Constitution, but also a call to the knock. What does the National Radio and Television Council say? I haven't heard her say those words. Also, the D.A.'s office should take care of it by public record... It should also be borne in mind that those who put their trust in Donald Tusk's words years ago and who fell for his election gig today have to pay their debt and often have a bailiff in their home. We should ask why Donald Tusk tricked people. He was 8 years old to relieve those persons of their obligation to pay the subscription, to cut them off or otherwise to apply the licence. Not only did he not do it, but he sent the IRS to do it. In the report of the National Radio and Television Council, I read that there are currently a quarter of a million requests for exemption from the need to pay the debt. The amount to be redeemed is approx. 2 thousand PLN per person. Most often the only defense, the explanation of these people, is the reference to the words of Prime Minister Donald Tusk. Calling for a non-payment of a subscription, to put it directly, to destroy public media, is an extremely harmful action of the Civic Platform politicians. Perhaps most Poles do not realize what the collapse of public media is at stake. The threat is that we will only be committed to commercial media, private media, mostly foreign media, that we will allow them to fool Poles, to provide informational leaks full of semi-truths and trivialities. Without public media funded by all citizens, without their mission, we will not learn to see and evaluate the reality surrounding us, we will forget about our history and identity. It's just that no commercial television, and certainly not the one with foreign capital, is going to fulfill the public television mission. Today's TVP is not PiS-owska propaganda, as Grzegorz Schetyna said. It is also not a seeding of hatred, as he added. I believe that the sowing of hatred was his words: television so-called. public is the disgrace of those who created it, who lead it, who speak the language of hatred; this is the symbol and element of the hate industry; these are the people who are there to destroy; you will answer for all that you are doing today. In the context of such words In our opinion, in the opinion of the Law and Justice, a good system of financing public media, national media should be adopted as soon as possible, so as to cut through any attempt to rebel the society that weakens missionary activity, particularly in the missionary activities of regional public radio companies which most benefit from subscription fees. Public television isn't a 20-minute program that somebody might think is too favourable to the government. It's a dozen channels. These are productions. These are archives and websites. It's a whole lot of different activities without which you can't build a civilized state with its offices and institutions. Public media is one of the most important elements here. In a word: public media This is our common national good. I understand that whatever Law and Justice does, whatever President Jacek Kurski or other President of regional television or Polish Radio will do, it will still be criticised. Yes, we must be critical, but we must always remember the Polish interest. It cannot be sold to private or international media giants. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the National Radio and Television Council to these anti-government appeals and speeches in commercial media. This is a normal information war. It's an extremely dangerous fake news fire. It's a canon of lies and half-truths. Moreover, politicians of the Civic Platform began to behave aggressively and rudely towards TVP journalists. Therefore, I ask: is it the task of authorised broadcasting licences to encourage or even call for the overthrow of legally elected authorities? Art. 18 of the Act on Radio and Television states that "I quote "the broadcasts or other communications cannot promote illegal activities and the Polish state's reason. Art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act allows the withdrawal of the concession when the activity of the consignor poses a threat to the security and defence of the State. Hence my appeal: National Radio and Television Council, please carry out your constitutional and statutory tasks and apply the legal measures granted to the Council. Thank you for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u226	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Bobka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me start by reminding you clearly that the bodies we are debating today are under the Constitution to uphold freedom of expression and public interest in the media. This is obvious, but let us try to think for a moment about what freedom of speech really means today. Intuitively, it seems obvious: anyone can say what he thinks is appropriate. But enjoying the freedom of speech From freedom at all, but from freedom of speech in particular It's not that simple. This requires a certain organization, format, structure. Here, in this room, if we all started to exercise our freedom of speech at once, we'd be in a tumult and we'd be in a ridiculous situation. If we all started talking at the same time, it would be tumult and it would be completely ineffective to exercise freedom of speech. In order to enjoy freedom of speech, you need a certain culture. The point is, the marshal speaks and when one says, the other listens. There must be an organization here. Without it there is tumult, chaos and nonsense. Let me repeat: the exercise of freedom of speech requires a certain culture. In European tradition, we have something to appeal to. You could actually talk about two structures or two ways of exercising the right to freedom of speech, a culture of debate, a culture of exchange of ideas and arguments. By the way, it may be worth recalling that the culture of European debate was developed in an excellent way in the Middle Ages, at medieval universities. St. Tomasz from Aquinas, discussed issues concerning various problems, e.g. Truth is an invincible pattern of the exercise of freedom of speech and dispute. There's culture. It's already been described by the ancient Greeks. The manipulation, the culture of emotion, the culture of influence on those who listen, not by reason and argument, but by manipulation and emotion. It is worth asking ourselves: what culture do we live in today? Is it in the culture of reason and exchange of arguments or in the culture of manipulation? I, ladies and gentlemen, have no doubt Looking at what is happening in the media today, not only in Poland, but in Europe That we definitely and of course live in a culture of manipulation. The culture of objective presentation of truth... Senator Klich mentioned this at the beginning in such a context that this standard of objectivity collapsed a year and a half ago in Poland. That's not true. The standard of striving for an objective representation of reality has broken down or is breaking down... It's a long process. Unfortunately, not only in Poland and Europe are we living in a culture of manipulation. Accepting a message without asking who it says, for what purpose and what it wants to gain is a manifestation of naivety. In such a situation, in order to talk about freedom of speech, one must, in fact, care first and foremost for pluralism, so that each of us, every citizen, has access to different broadcasters. In this respect, the situation in Poland in my opinion is paradoxically much better, and I say it with some surprise actually. .. than in Europe. Europe, which for years, for the period of the Polish People's Republic, has been a model of freedom of speech for us, is in a deep crisis today in my view. Today, even the level and depth of the discussion about the situation in Poland... Reading about Poland in foreign media, I am really devastated by the shallowness, one-sidedness of the ratings that appear there. There's no pluralism. There is a problem with pluralism in Europe. In Poland it is much better in this respect. Now for the public media mission. What is the role, meaning, and tasks of the public media in the situation that I have briefly outlined? Well, for the past year and a half, no doubt this has happened. And there's nothing to hide that's not the case, at least that's my assessment. In particular, public media, especially those that are so strongly criticized by public television, present the position of the government, the governing party. Is that a good thing or a bad thing? That's how the monopoly was broken. We have a wider range of views. Today... It's also a certain thing, I'd say. A clinical example for specialists: today, Poland looks completely different from Poland at 7.30 p.m. These are two completely different paintings. This is instructive, though sad. That's probably not how it's supposed to be. Over the last year and a half, public television has broken the monopoly of the mainstream into relations about what is happening in Poland. But is this the main task of public media? Well, probably not. We would probably require more from the public media. It is certainly the task of public media to build a community, so to go not only to supporters of the government, but to all Poles. To some extent it can happen, in programs on just such channels as TVP Culture, TVP History. This is certainly worth putting even more emphasis on. Financial resources are also needed for this. Finally, I would like to say one more, in my opinion, of an extremely crucial public television mission. Namely, there's no... Maybe not only that there isn't, but it's hard to talk about the sensible use of freedom of speech, the freedom of the media without a journalist's ethos, without the freedom of a journalist. What is the situation of journalists in Poland today, especially young people, those working in regional media for small money, under enormous pressure, often depraved, often forced to write and present reality against their conscience? I didn't get to ask that anymore, because there were a lot of questions today, maybe too many questions, they kept repeating themselves. Perhaps the question has been asked. I'll ask for that information. What the employment structure of journalists in the regional media looks like, in the central media. How many of them work in trash cans? This is a phenomenon that we're used to, that most young people work in trash cans, while celebrities make a lot of money. Is this a normal situation? Is this the situation that builds up a journalist's ethos? In such a situation, is there a climate for serious exercise of freedom of speech? And there is no freedom of speech without the freedom of a person, without the ethos of the one who represents reality. Is it even possible to return to ethos, the standard of objectivity, or do we have to stick and move in ethos, or actually in the anti-ethos of permanent manipulation, which unfortunately not only in Poland, but in general in today's world is rather a dominant trend? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u228	Thank you. [[It's me now.]] Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u229	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator, thank you for this speech. It seems to me that the Senate is the right place for such a debate in which we are talking about truth, freedom of speech and what principles we should follow. I have been dealing with media since there has been free Poland since 1989, and with pain I find that we have not managed to lead to such a situation that we talk about really public media. And I was convinced that we could move slowly towards it. From the very beginning, when the government of Tadeusz Mazowiecki... When Parliament passed the Act on the National Council of Radio and Television at the time, I was convinced that people who enjoyed extraordinary moral authority among citizens would enter it, that there might not be any political parties on this board. Then, ladies and gentlemen, there would be no problem. I see no reason to reply, Mr Senator, Mr Ryszka, to your, well, actually, article, because you read, prepare yourself... you have come up with a very virulent text. I want to tell you that I don't like this crazy because you're going back to the case 10 years ago when in the election campaign the candidate for the Prime Minister said that we're going to try to eliminate the subscription as an unnecessary tribute to Poles... [[I was talking about the Schetyn.]] Please? [[I was talking about Schetina at the National Council...]] Yes, yes, but I quote your... Relax, let's not stop or else I'm gonna get out of my head and start having problems. Well, first of all, I would ask that in situations like this, when we're going to be a model for citizens... In a political dispute, let us not bring up matters that have no meaning for what we are discussing. And we are discussing the report of the National Council and the report of the National Media Council. Of course, I could answer any of these arguments, Senator. If you are saying that President Schetyna is criticizing today's television, I will answer you that on TV or on the National Council, which theoretically is attributed to the Civic Platform and PSL coalition, it has worked, and for years, Mr Pospieszalski's programme, in which I, as a member of the governing coalition, have been well offended, even attacked, and I have decided not to perform more in this programme, but the programme has not been removed. If you show me now on Polish television a program that attacks the current team, I will be happy to perform in it. For now, when I was on the show once or twice, I was attacked even before I started talking before I said the first word on the subject. So let's not argue here because I have the evidence, Senator. Why are you moving your head? That means you're accusing me of not telling the truth right now. Yes? [[That's two...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Okay, okay. [[...please don't argue with Senator Ryszka.]] I'm already with the senator... [[Unfortunately, he's always... he's been in a lot of trouble.]] No, no, Mr. Ryszka doesn't... This gentleman... [[No, please...]] ...I don't know his name, but he nods his head that he doesn't. Okay, then. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Senator, there's freedom to nod.]] Oh, well, I'm sorry. I'm not gonna nod your head. [[You have freedom of speech...]] And now I want to get back to the subject. For the first time in my life... I have been receiving reports from the National Radio and Television Council for many years, I have also written a koreferat and, of course, we have always had a political dispute, because there have always been differences over the years when I was in the Sejm, the National Councils, but, in total, these reports, if there was no special political pressure, have always been accepted. This time, of course, we were in a completely different situation, because it concerned reports from a time when two different National Councils, two councils, were in a different composition. Well, the biggest problem I think the current National Council has is not a personal problem, I don't see any personal curves here that could cause some crazy tension. That's not the point. The biggest problem is that it is deprived of its basic function, i.e. the opinion and appointment of members of public company bodies, which the Constitutional Tribunal has challenged, is the Article. 213, paragraph 1 of the Act. That's what Minister Kołodziejski was talking about. I don't know. The minister has to get those powers back. The remainder of the National Council's report shall be carried out in the same manner and scheme as that in which it was carried out. over the past years, there was no problem with that. If we have spoken with the opposite voice, it is only because of this, only because the function of the National Council has been depleted by taking away from it this extraordinary law, which gives you the opportunity to prove that we are a non-political body. That's what gave you the right. Receiving this, writing in the act that there can be no representatives of associations or universities, universities as it was, is, in my opinion, a withdrawal from what we might call public television, public media. Now I want to get back to my opinion on the National Media Council. Come on, Mr. Senator. Here I will appeal to President Ryszka for a moment. You say that we are attacking Kurski. Is Schetina attacking Kurski's TV? Mr. Senator, who really attacked Kurski? Czabański, Minister of Czabański, because one day he kicked him out of the office of head of television. That means he reacted to the wrong idea of the head of television. The boss was fired, the whole nation applauded the National Media Council, but in the evening it turned out to be a p.o. If we collide with what I'm saying now, with your paper, we can score, but I don't care because the truth is one. I'll be done, Mr. Marshal. I would just like to say that the point of informing the public that this National Media Council... This wording of national media does not sound good, it is best to say that the media are public. Yeah, but let's just say you have that kind of access code. But let me tell you, I can't imagine if you're a marshal. Borusewicz will remind me of such a thing as a man who has been in the Polish Parliament since the beginning of freedom For the Members of Parliament to be at the National Council of Radio and Television. If the Marshal doesn't answer, maybe Minister Kołodziejski will say I'm wrong. I do not recall, in any case, that the President-in-Office... It has happened that Mrs. Bubula, who was no longer an MEP, or Senator Boron... They then embraced functions in such a way that they are already prepared to assume these functions. But that's not the case yet. Well, you didn't answer my question, Minister Czabański. Can I use the word "kuriozum"? It is a curial situation in which the Deputy Minister of Government prepares a bill for himself, as it turned out. He told me that the bill was passed by the Sejm. But the fact is, and here I have a separate opinion of Mr Julius Braun, who did not have the opportunity to pronounce him in the Sejm, that indeed the law in the Sejm was carried out by Mrs Raven and Mrs Lichock, who are also messengers and who have also taken this advice. Well, I'm sorry, am I attacking someone here without reason, since I'm just paying attention to where we are? And now my dreams, as a man of old age or age. Don't laugh, Director. However, they are such that we may come to a point where a member of the National Council of Media, the National Council of Radio and Television will not be suspected of promoting a party, will not be suspected of promoting any agreements or any people of television or media, but will be a man who will be accountable to his own conscience for decisions. Because you can imagine, it's very easy to imagine that standing in front of a mirror, I'm okay with myself, although I have completely different views. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u230	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like the floor of Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka... [[Voice from the room: No, now Senator Rulewski.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, yeah, I lost the name of Senator Rulewski. Senator Jan Rulewski. Please, come... [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal, I'm ready, I'm ready...]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not today, but before... well, still and still talk about 8 years of Poland in ruins, and today it is said that nothing has happened. And I would like, as a viewer, and a bit like techniques, to emphasize that during this period media, television were digitized and instead of 7 analogue programs is 27 digital, that public television broadcasts on a universal scale on 7 digital frequencies. I do not know whether we have achieved or have already exceeded the European standard, but this has all been done without financial implications for the public media recipient. I think that this has also affected competition, which had to adapt to this technical level. For this, the National Radio and Television Council, regardless of its composition, thank you and please repeat this in the new institution. If not in another composition, then so-called. The National Media Council. To make the digitalisation process so that the process of socializing television, for example by creating a public library, which I hope will It will develop digitally, and I will use this word, not only the chosen ones, but also the nation... For this process to continue. This appeal is seemingly just an appeal. It refers to information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016 from print No 463. The threshold begins with the question, what are national media? The National Media Council doesn't know what national media is. That's what she said: no legal definition. I thought that until now the coalition that bet this National Media Council, at least knows what a nation is. And if he doesn't know what a nation is At least she should know that the national media are the ones that are in the hands of the chosen people. There's no doubt about it here on the right. You are the chosen nation, therefore, if the media are in your hands, then, as I understand it, they are national for that reason. Maybe it's just a publicist instead of a report, but it's good to know what these national media are, because then we build them for, I understand, a defined nation. I'm not gonna settle this because I don't have enough knowledge and competence. But I can certainly say that in terms of the functioning of national media politicians say that they represent the nation, but the nation no longer says that it is with politicians. How's it going in practice? This is what it looks like in practice, that after this ungrateful TV Tusk, who lied and didn't allow... finally got the people's voice in the form of their representatives. Representatives call for payment, subscription fees. What does the nation say? The nation is silent. The nation at this point forgets that it has national politicians. But the representatives of the nation go on They announce abolition: listen up, crooks, crooks and lost people, you will pay nothing extra, you will only report in and continue to pay for media under the direction of national representatives. And the nation is silent. Worse, for the nation is silent, and the politicians of this nation are fleeing for fear, deserting, as I have proved to Mr. Czabanski. He's already made six proposals, but he's just called it in. He didn't realize any of them. No minister Czabański has ever met. As we had our subscription constantly increased, additionally mortgaged bonds for 800 million PLN Yes. We got what we had. What is more, there is a group of senators who are constantly fighting capitalism or foreign capital. It is at that time that the media financed by the so-called. Foreign capital suddenly gets more ratings and does not charge any fees. So what I'm asking is, isn't this going to be foreign media? Or are they already here? In any case, under your leadership, the nation does not speak to its representatives. I am saying this because, even though I was critical of my chairman's statement... I am sorry, not mine, I am not a member of the party; President Tusk has taken action to change this. So that the real, important human right to reliable information and to shape reality is real. I've told you and I'm in favour of a subscription. It's not a tribute. It is primarily the right to receive daily, 24/7 information and other benefits in the field of culture, sport, morality or even religion. This isn't a racket. This is a fee for the right to continue using the information. The Constitution commands Polish citizens... All truly democratic constitutions order citizens to carry out this duty. I will defend the subscription of a subscription that depended on Minister Rostowski and the subscription that depends on Kurski or another minister in the current government. This is so that the nation can consciously shape... has the right to property. Just like he used to have the right to enter the woods, let him now have the right to go on TV. More: I proposed that not only politicians should be part of the National Media Council as part of the national transformation. It is not a new idea that there are also cultural people, those who influence culture and its culture. But let there also be an ordinary citizen, a viewer who has the right to choose as part of an electronic vote. With the votes of your coalition, you have eliminated this nation's share. You've focused on your people, you've entered a party nomenclature, admitting the opposition, with a known effect, the residual sites. The proposal was quite clear. As it turns out, it was neither by myself nor by the National Radio and Television Council. Such solutions have been applied in countries that do not have the courage to say that they are national. These projects are carried out in Finland and partly in Germany. ♪ I've been adding ♪ This is particularly true in Germany. That if the media are to perform a public mission, there can be no confusion here with the confusion presented by Mr Czabański. It's about the idea that there's gonna be advertising. To know if anyone's watching this TV to have a research office like this. And a public mission. Well, if it's going to be a public mission, if it's going to be an argument in a dispute with the Union and commercial private media, then she has to be clean. Of course, there may be funding and sponsorship, but not on the basis of advertising, but within the framework of so-called. Corporate social responsibility for life in the country. This could be the foundation of some sports, cultural, educational and other news. The media's assessment, as you know, is not about advertising specialists, it's about media popularity experts. I think it's the National Radio and Television Council. Of course, the fee would be universal, implemented through PIT or KRUS... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. Its size, as calculated, is 7,80. There wouldn't be any commercials on the show. They'd be for that. This is an open case. Further investments, which the National Radio and Television Council should speak about on behalf of those citizens who will constantly want to raise levels. It would be a fee imposed with privileges or exemptions for all those who have such privileges today. [[Thank you very much.]] It comes out almost 3 billion zlotys. I'll just give you the numbers, Mr. Marshal. That would be PLN 3 billion. Any taxable person would pay a fee of 7,80. I encourage not the idea, but the consequences in its implementation. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u232	Thank you, Senator. Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u233	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to point out at the outset that it is a great shame that, during this debate, neither the President of the National Media Council nor any of the five representatives, members of the National Media Council, are present, as our speeches concern the report of the Council and it would be good if one of these councils, however, were to take part in these deliberations. But apparently, Mr Czabanski is above all that, and his parliamentary customs do not apply. Nevertheless, I will tell you what I want to say about the public media council. You've already quoted Senator Rulewski here from the bill... I would first like to say a few words about this law, which was very unsuccessful, adopted, so we cannot do that. Mr. Senator has already quoted, he has put forward a statement showing that the public media council is on a good case. Can't find a definition, a legal definition of national media. So why are we trying to talk about national media all the time? It's just public media. A bit further in the same report, however, Mr Czabański determines what the national media are meant to do. And here I would like to quote Mr Czabański: In a democratic state such as Poland, media order should be based on strong and independent from the current policy of national media, i.e. public media, which are in the ownership of the nation. So you're out there somewhere. Czabanski defines it. But that doesn't completely coincide with the facts, which is why this bill is amazing. And I ask myself, who are the national media for? They are probably for the whole nation in such a way that we, all Poles, have the right to national media, including newborns, children and youth. Because national media should be an educational role for this social group, and we do not see it as an educational role, at least on public television. The percentage of educational programs is very low, at a low level. This relates to universal culture and involves all kinds of public media responsibilities 'Cause I'm gonna keep calling them public, not national 'cause it's the public media's responsibilities that don't work. In this regard, the phrase here is: are these media government? Well, I think so, because they respond to the demand of a small group, for the whole nation, of a social group, namely thirty-seven percent of the voters, thanks to which we have this government. Where's the rest of the society? After all, it is not that the whole Polish nation, our entire society, including children and young people, is organized in various types of political options. There are also people with different views, disorganized, unassociated, and national media should serve them equally, as they all do. But no one considered it, which is why we have such public media, not others. Come on. The National Media Act is such a billing car compared to other laws that we have here in this Chamber to deal with. There are individual sentences here that formulate something, but absolutely do not determine and do not give, are not based on any criteria. I'm gonna want to talk about programming here. E.g. Article 2 12 in this Act But it's not just the article I'm talking about. It says that the Programme Board is entitled to review... The Media Council is entitled to review the company's affairs and in this respect the Board has the powers which the Company's laws and statutes grant to the Supervisory Board. And that's it. Why am I talking about these short, enigmatic sentences? Like this report, so is this bill... In principle, it is said that such an article changes the wording of the State Treasury Minister to the National Media Council. Because, as you all know, the public media was supervised until the National Media Council was appointed by the Treasury Minister as a single-member state treasury body. Why, I'd say, is it annoying or annoying to write that in this bill? Because the lack of criteria... the lack of leaning over specific wording makes us have a lot of shortcomings and a lot of very strange things. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the Radio and Television Act, about the record... I want to limit myself here to the Polonia Television Programme Council, to this particular fact I want to draw attention to. Programme Boards in Article 28a points 1 and 2... There are such wordings: the term of office of the Programme Board lasts 4 years and its members represent the social interests and expectations associated with the company's programming activities. This was reduced by the wording in the Act: programme councils, apart from programme opinions, are consulted on the financial and programme plans. And then all we have in the bill is that the National Media Council is setting up programming councils. Period, that's it, nothing else from that radio bill went through. And that's why. In the case of the Polonia Television Programme Council we have such a freak... I am referring here to my question, which I asked Mr Czabanski, whether he does not think that the members of the programme councils in the form of politicians themselves should not have a parliament. The situation is that the National Media Council has set up the Polonia Television Programme Board in accordance with all the arrangements for the number of people, etc. Parliamentary clubs have notified their candidates. And we have a situation at the moment that the President of the Programme Council was a high-ranking government official, Mr Michał Dworczyk, who is a Deputy Minister at the Ministry of National Defence and Vice-President is Mr Dziedziczak, who is a Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, few who are under the care of Polonia and Poles abroad, all of which decide to co-finance the Polonia Television. And he is Vice-President of the Polonia Television Programme Council. The second vice-president was the president of one of the foundations, the Polish Community Foundation, which has important programming issues and repeatedly asks that they be announced on the Polish Television. This is because there are no appropriate criteria for who should be on the programming boards. It has that kind of effect. I'm asking the question is... There's something else. This may sound ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen, but Mr Dworczyk has called a meeting of the Programme Council at the Ministry of National Defence tomorrow. And the bill clearly states that the work of the program boards is organized by a television antenna, which is responsible for the secretariat and organization of the work... [[Senator, I'm...]] I'm almost done. [[Good. You've got five more minutes.]] Television as such has every opportunity to arrange such a meeting. Because there was a media noise, because I was talking about it during the meeting of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and because on Facebook there were questions about whether the Polish Television Programme Council should be militarized, because it is beginning to hold meetings in the Ministry of National Defence, today around 10.00 a.m. Mr Dworczyk moved the meeting of the Programme Council to the headquarters of Polonia Television. These are the consequences of the shortcomings of the laws, or actually the Act on the National Media Council. These types of examples result from the lack of description, due to the lack of specific provisions, entries in the legal language, maybe for some people difficult to understand, but working... In conclusion, I can say at the moment that since we have created one, not another, of the Polonia Television Council and perhaps other programming councils, it is not surprising that there is a formulation in the public circulation that we are dealing with government television or on-site television. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u234	You have a voice now, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I'll start with what Professor Bobko said. Professor, I always listen with great joy and appreciation to what you say, especially on topics that are difficult topics maybe not from an engineering point of view, but from the point of view of obtaining some agreement on the level of discussion, i.e. bringing discussion to a common denominator. Only then, as the professor said, does a real, open discussion begin. What the professor was talking about is a fantastic thing. It's about the love of reason by Thomas of Aquinas. This is an example of loving reason and using it in public discussion, especially in media discussions. This is the openness that the professor was talking about, this is diversity and pluralism. This is the power of progress, not the one-sided display: this is good, and this is bad. I fully agree with the Professor. I only regret that for various reasons such an open discussion on important topics often does not exist in the Polish Parliament, in the Polish Senate. The professor said a very important thing. He said the Polish media were pretty good compared to the Western media. I quickly looked at the data and looked at who we look like when it comes to the media. And somehow the most... Ladies and gentlemen, I have found many common features of our media with television, which is called Russia Today. This is not political sarcasm. President Putin says that public media is a media division of government, that is, governments. And it's hard to answer positively... Today's television is the media division of Law and Justice. There is no desire to let go of reason, discussion and openness. This is a battlefield where one division wants to introduce public order, spatial order and media order. President Putin said about Russia Today that this is an information service funded by the authorities, and the purpose of this television is to break the monopoly of the communication of information about bad information. And President Jacek Kurski says that if TVP journalists are defending Law and Justice today, they are balancing the pro-possessional tilt of most media. Well, where in one or the other expression, the same law or the like, do we have a love of reason, openness and pluralism? Now it's a very important topic. How, then, is the role of the media, especially television, passed on? Because when the mind sleeps, demons wake up. When we turn on emotions, then demons wake up, so reason should be before emotions. When Russia Today reported all kinds of information from Europe, this information was on the belt at the same time: the European Union has evidence that snipers Those in Majdan She hired the opposition. It was an eavesdropping conversation between the boss and the Foreign Minister of Estonia. Do you see this structure? There are certain rules, comparisons, and in the meantime, the belt is ready to tell us what it is and how it should be understood. And now I'm looking at Polish TV... Today things are not easy, there is a discussion about the Supreme Court. Do you know what's on the belt on Polish TV? In Polish public media, in which the power of reason should be built and not the power of a political party? Then, when the debate is going on Better or worse, but discussion On the Supreme Court, the belt flies like this: the faces of resistance against judicial reform are paedophiles and allies, the PiS proposes reform to eliminate corruption and abuse. Well, Mr. Senator, what do you do when there is corruption and abuse? It's not like you start a whole TV machine, you just go to the D.A.'s office, you start a D.A.'s office, all the other services, and you don't sip all the time... So there's this thought bump. We already know what the conclusion of this discussion is. And if he adds to that on the belt, without your president, without any respect, only M. Gersdorf against the reform, which is supposed to eliminate corruption and abuse... This is again an example of the fact that emotions are aroused, ladies and gentlemen, and the mind is asleep. And then the demons wake up. This is how you seek public space in the national media. The professor rightly said that an important element is the staff, especially the youth, because what the shell will soak up when it comes to youth... If these young people soak up this type of journalism, this type of relationship, discussion, they'll be worse in 20 years than they are today. I'd like to give you a classic example. A young journalist, a spirit god, probably, asked some uncomfortable questions to the Prime Minister and immediately took a week's leave of absence. He probably wasn't coming back, but there was a lot of outrage, so they brought him back. I suspect what the conversation looked like. They call him and say, "Listen, kid, you're gonna ask these questions again, you're not gonna work on this TV anymore." You want us to break your career? Well, the young, of course, like the young, wants to work, loves journalism, so I'm sure he's made some resolutions. Let me just say what questions this young man, Prime Minister Szydło, asked. Prime Minister Szydło was asked about the following issues: at the time when President Trump visited Poland, you were not on any joint visit. There were Mr. Waszczykowski and other notables, and you weren't there. Well, that's already caused some concern for the Prime Minister. But of course, the young man kept digging and asking, "Mr. Prime Minister, you were at the congress. Were you alone, or were you absent from this congress? And when he asked those questions... And he said, "Could you exchange the things that Prime Minister Kaczyński was talking about?" Well, it's already shown that it's a substitute for independent journalism. Of course, he had problems with forced leave. And this is building a good example for young people. These things about being, that is, whether contracts are for work, in what form, etc., are important, but what is shown to young people when it comes to how to work in national media is very painful. And to counterbalance, in the British training system, Maybe these British media aren't the best, as Professor said. The main reasons for journalists, especially young journalists entering television or radio, are that the media exercise social, civic control, warn and watch over values. See: in the Polish space of national media are these values? Well, it's another important feature connecting Russia Today and Polish Television. After all, the main attack in the media in Poland is against the opposition. And there's another country where the opposition is mostly attacked: this is Russia, well, I won't mention Belarus anymore. In Russia, the West and the opposition are mostly attacked as this factor of evil. And when you look at information elements in Polish national media today, you can see that it is actually the same. And I would like to say that Professor Krzysztof Gurba of the Pontifical University of John Paul II in Krakow said that the main element of The media, the work of journalists is looking at the power of the hands. He didn't say that looking at the opposition's hands, but that the role of the media is looking at the power of the hands. That's fourth power. And here's the confusion, the third, the fourth and actually all the authorities in one hand. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two more words. Namely the Association of Polish Journalists quoted here today... [[Time's up, Senator.]] Well, then I'm gonna end it, and I'm gonna talk about these assumptions in my next speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u236	Now you have the floor, Senator Klich... but he's gone. Then we'll ask Senator Dowhan. Please. [[I am, Mr. Marshal.]] That's why I'm asking you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u237	Thank you so much for letting me speak to Mr. Klich. High Izbo! Mr. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, I'd like to thank you, because as usual, it's a point and a point. You have time to pick up these things... although Senator Fedorovich has also corrected them very specifically. Senator Ryszka is here. I think you wrote yourself this article or column, which you asked us to read here, because there was no substance in it, except for such typical propaganda. But that's my opinion, maybe a man who hasn't grown up yet, well, maybe in a few years or so, my views will change. Senator Boris-Damięcka also noted that our debate unfortunately does not listen to those who should listen, at least in part. And that, I think, is the conclusion and substance of this debate today. I don't want to focus on politics, I'd rather talk, or as you suggested, there'll be more railroads on TV. But in our regional sometimes show steam trucks from Wolsztyn, beautiful, preserved, dignified steam trucks and several times I managed to see... Anyway, Wolsztyn's not far from Zielona Góra. Well, Senator Rooster, you're welcome. By the way... [[I was, I was twice.]] By the way, we also have a lot of sports events, and you're a fan and a sports activist, so I'm sure we'll have a chance... [[So vibrant.]] [[But not like you know who.]] Yeah, it's pretty lively, actually. I've heard of a loud doping somewhere. But these are the pros and cons of cheering. I want to tell you, too. Because I watch various TVs, Polish and foreign and talk to young people because I work in sports, and sports, this professional sport is primarily the domain of young people The fact that young people, abstracting from politics, which is already extremely monotonous, who are bored and generally not interested in young people, have nothing to watch on public television. Well, what's the message, what's the mission if there's really nothing to watch? Well, of course, it's Christmas, we have Kevin alone at home, everyone's waiting for it, so I get it. In other programs of yours, in general, there's either the same thing over and over again, or there's one rhetoric. Mr Kurski's vocation and later his cancellation, and then his vocation again, is a circus that does not happen in professional companies or on professional television, but television is also a company. Here we had just an example of how it went politically, because it was politically called, politically cancelled and then politically called again. Well, there wasn't any merriment here. If we're talking business... all we hear is that everyone has to pay for TV. Well, I'd rather pay for what I want to watch today, or... well, I want to buy what I decide. But deciding for others to pay because someone there has a mission that doesn't exactly appeal to everyone... I'm totally against it. If this mission of yours is so good, if you think it's gonna sell, then... I mean, other TVs can handle it. There are open programs of Polsatu, TVN, other stations, but there are also encrypted programs on which they earn, they sell advertising. They do not have an extensive base of directors, marketing agents, CEOs, supervisory boards, etc. etc., and yet they manage, function and have excellent results in contrast to your results, which are falling. Well, unfortunately, they're falling, which is what the posts show. Although today, thanks to an extensive system and the availability of television, this audience is still visible, it goes the other way every day or month. Like I said, if it pays off for other TVs, then there's nothing left but to take an example of them. There's nothing to be ashamed of here, but you have to take an example from other TVs. If they make money, sell good ads, make good shows, buy good licenses, invest in games, e.g. sports and buy out games of different international leagues, and it turns out in the form of selling decoders, then maybe it's time to do it. Well, that's what Trwam TV did, which isn't far from you, so other TVs did, and they're doing fine. This is a simple way, not pulling out... and scheming: if not in the current, it's in the gas, if not in the gas, it's in the water, if not in the PIT, it's in other solutions. And someone who doesn't want to watch TV and has a TV because today the TV is not only for watching TV itself, but can serve as a projector, you can play other programs on it... Is this where we're supposed to prove and do a committee, whether anyone's watching or not, or is someone pulling something off the Internet? Well, that contradicts... Where's democracy, where's economic freedom? Mr President, during the debate, we devoted a moment to regional television. I asked that question, and it wasn't just me, because my law and justice buddies... Today there are several regional TV centres, but we actually have a few programs: 2 local journals, 1 reportage, sometimes sports, sometimes culinary, sometimes a little debate on local TV. And that's it. Other issues focus on TVP Info, and when it comes to the transmission of the most important events that are happening today in the country, either there is a TV Info, or there are information programs for competing stations. And you don't have to have extensive regional centers, pay for office space, pay for offices, pay for security, pay for heating, pay for taxes, etc. And pay people to have the same message. Today, if you only have a car in the field and an operator, it takes very little time, considering the roads that have succeeded in building a great effort in the end after so many years and which are building further, which I am very happy about. So you don't need to have an extensive center in the regions today. See how companies distribute, how the market changed. Just pay attention. After all, television is the same product That today you don't build a warehouse in every village to deliver the product from the warehouse to the shops. Today either there are warehouses for several voivodships, or there is one aggregate for the whole country and the products are transported normally. It's the same with television. After all, today you can reach e.g. For the accident, for the random event, for the others... And this is really the moment. But me, looking at what's going on, and yet hearing: Okay, if there's money, these TVs are going to expand... Well, if you give me the money, even though I'm not a journalist, I'd be happy to do what you want. I will build a building, hire 10 or 20 journalists who will stand on every crossword puzzle from morning to evening and record what people say, how cars drive, which chimney smokes... Well, if that's the mission, I really thank you for the mission. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u238	The next speaker is Senator Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... No, I'm sorry, Mr... [[It's a light bulb.]] Senator Żaryn now, right? [[But he's not here. You're a marshal.]] [[But Senator Klich also showed up. He was on the list.]] [[Voice from the room: He was, but he's gone.]] This is Mr. Senator, Marshal Borusewicz... yes, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u239	I'm coming. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation is specific because for the first time we are considering the report of the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council The institution that was formed recently, and, at the same time, I believe, it was created unnecessarily. The National Council of Radiophony and Television is enshrined in the Constitution and was an institution which had all the supervision of public media and the possibility of a holistic response. However, the National Media Council was set up by taking away the very important competences of the National Council, i.e. the appointment of public television boards and radio stations. And that is, whoever appoints and cancels has influence. So, through a simple operation, the most important competence was transferred to the National Media Council, and this was because the council was to remain a bang, only the name and members were to remain. And all competences go to a new body called the Noise Council of National Media. And then there was a two-headed creature. And even if it is directed and controlled by one party, it has different interests, because they are other organisational entities. Therefore, in principle, the National Radio and Television Council is not responsible for personal matters, while the National Media Council is not responsible for governance in the air, but for everything else. And it really is the creation of two institutions whose competences are imposed, from a functional point of view, that is a bad, fatal thing. Therefore, ♪ Or still ♪ Mr. President of the National Media Council... I'm sorry, National Radio and Television Council, as you can see from the answer, as if he doesn't control this financial situation on TV. I'm not saying it's personal, it's financial. I do not know if you are interested in receiving information, Mr President, but we do know that the financial condition of public television is terrible. I asked for it, and I didn't get an answer. How does TV work? Because basically every time there's a report, we focus on television and it's the most important thing. First of all, you threw out ok. 200 journalists from public television and public radio. You threw it away, or you forced it to go away, picking up the programs, taking away the job. This place was attended by employees from 2 sources: from Television Republic and Television Trwam. Some of them I know. One major director, a journalist, and now the director... I met him walking around my parish as a representative of Trwam Television, doing reports. And maybe it worked, but that's all. Those were promotions from lieutenant to general. You can't make a lieutenant general in six months or a year. The only positive result of these changes is that Television Republic and Television Trwam have improved. And I can watch these TVs now. But the result for public television is terrible. Journalists mix information with commentary. There's some information that something's happened, and there's a comment in that. Well, that's the basic mistake of journalism. Is that a bad will or a lack of education? Since I heard on public television last week: a discredited judge convicted something there, that sentence didn't like it, the ruling didn't like it... After all, this is information connected to... this is a basic error that is made on public television. Information combined with comment, unseparated. You don't separate comment from information. And yesterday... Well, that's the peaks: a statement or a statement. And, as I understand it, it was a statement that went on the belt, which meant it flew much longer than the reporter's statement. That the defenders of pedophiles and allies are the faces of resistance against judicial reform. Well, what is it? Shame! This is an outrage! Are we those faces? I didn't really listen to it, but I understand it's not about the problems in the church, right? Though you might have thought so. That kind of... This isn't even fake news. It's just... I do not know why you do not intervene in this matter. Do you need a motion? You're listening and watching... In addition, there is a continuous movement of personnel, even among the people of good change, your people. The main antennas of Polish Television and Polish Radio have already changed directors several times. This deepens the state of uncertainty and frustration among other workers. There are regular commentators, they're commenting... And they're the only ones. And so, Tomczyński, former judge, comments on cases of courts, Prof. Mieczysław Ryba, Ryszard Jółaniecki, Prof. Wiesław Wysocki and a group of journalists who perform in all the layouts, i.e.Paweł Lisicki from the "To Things," Michał Karnowski from this newspaper... [[In the Network.]] Excuse me, from this fishing newspaper in the Network... [[Fun in the room]] Yes, yes, in the Network. And these are steels... other than some of the constants we're all watching. It's just a tube in one tube. Such public television is not public television. She's for public money, for our money... [[Mr. Marshal, time is up.]] ...to mine, too. This is television, which is just the propaganda tube of the PiS government. And don't be surprised that people don't want to pay a subscription, that people register their receivers, because that's a legal possibility. Don't be surprised. Listening down, ratings down. The president of public television says, well, bad measurements, I don't like measurements. Beat the thermometer, the measurements will be better. This isn't public television. It's a government propaganda tube. And just like the Russian TV I'm watching... There television always prepares a certain fire, prepares for certain decisions and actions of the government. Same here. As I hear it... [[You've run out of time, Mr. Marshal.]] Now. When I heard the judges were a bunch of guys and thieves, I knew you guys were gonna go after the judges. And I wasn't wrong. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u240	I'm declaring an announcement. Today's session will continue until 10 p.m. Tomorrow, the session starts at 11:00 p.m. You have a voice now, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In the digital world, the role of the media in the world of globalisation is changing a lot. Of course, we feel how this affects the shape of democracy. How can rational decisions be made without access to verified, good, reliable information? That's the problem. This, of course, concerns the free internet, but this does not mean that you should wave your hand at these, you would say, still modern, but already traditional media. Today information runs fast and is very often replicated. The existence of a place where maximum objective information can be expected is crucial in a world where you don't know what to believe, and you don't know who to believe. And it is at this point that we are talking about these 2 reports, which tell us whether our public media are really some kind of service that sets good standards in journalism, giving us the best opportunity to get an opinion about what our Polish, as well as world reality looks like. Well, when laws were amended here, on the basis of which both the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council work, there were many charges against what was before. We had difficulty in defending the National Council of Radio and Television, Polish public television or Polish Radio against all these allegations, because some of these allegations had good grounds, but we also felt that what was coming, multiple disadvantages, and not removing them, would not strengthen the good sides. And indeed, that is what happened. You accused us that the media wasn't objective enough. I will no longer cite the examples present because this is something that cannot be listened to. Today people are screaming that public television is lying. Recently, we heard this in the days of Solidarity. The senator is shaking his head. Maybe he doesn't agree. At the time, power didn't agree, absolutely. She was freaking out, like we wrote. You'd probably froze, too. But it doesn't blur reality, because it does. It is fatal, the worst, one could say, journalists, without proper experience, as Marshal Borusewicz was just talking about, insanely non-obviously, carry out key publishing programs and, in fact, become one more party in the discussion, a party which, as Senator Czarnobaj said beautifully, Instead of controlling power and being on the side of the opposition, it focuses on attacking the opposition rather than pointing out power. It's a complete puriazum! This does not have to be and should not be the role of public media. They should be balanced in their message, show good, and how, as much good as possible, but also point out evil and give speech to the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, even the best programs, beloved, beloved, under the influence of this change are weakening, losing audiences and viewers. Recently, I read about the Triple Radio Triple ratings, where so much has been corrupted, that the listening of this program has dropped by nearly 20%. Just watch how this change of this program, really with ambition, brings to the same level as the others. Let's look at the economic side. Has it improved a little bit in our media? The subscription was about talking, talking, talking, talking, withdrawing more projects and there is no decision. We still don't know what's next. And was it possible to make the media even cheaper? No. Has the efficiency that has been said so much been improved? Absolutely not! Have employment been reduced? Not at all! Well, not much anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, information on the National Media Council Well, that's the way it's supposed to be. It was hopeless. You have to say, that was the worst piece of information ever presented here. If it were to delete what was completely unnecessary, it would be on two or more pages. And that would be the information that the public media authorities were finally elected. But there won't be any information next year, and I don't know what it says anymore. I don't know what's gonna fit in there. Maybe these competitions, because it's obvious that even the head of this council is looking for something to do here. Gentlemen, what to do here to show that this new institution is needed for anything? And she doesn't need anyone for anything. We've been talking about this from the beginning. The report of the National Radio and Television Council to those basic pains I am talking about is hardly applicable, and even if it applies partially, it only shows that the National Radio and Television Council has sent at most a letter to someone. And that's all it's done to keep at least a shadow of decency. Inaction against the politicisation of public media, inaction against the attack of NGOs, inaction against the spread of promotional advertising, etc., etc. What you are doing is far too little to say that the National Radio and Television Council is actually acting as a regulator. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, this discussion has given us something, because we have heard important information that should not be missed, namely the announcement of hitting media pluralism, which we have thanks to the fact that there are other media than public media. Those were the words that came out here. And it's worth remembering that maybe there will be no recolonization, but there will be deconcentration. [[Time's up.]] Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. Although, in economic matters, concentration begins when 40% is controlled The market, but the Minister has already announced that it will download to 20% and add a few other elements. Can we do that? Oh, yes, I can! Please, how can you assess those responsible for public media when, according to Freedom House, an institution which has been evaluating the functioning of public media for decades, Polish media are at the worst, the sixty-sixth place so far, judged as only partially free, not free, only partially free. Well, we still have some left. They may soon be completely enslaved. Whether that's the future, they'll probably show us another report. From my words and from the words of my predecessors, the requests for rejection of information and reports are well-founded. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u242	This is the second time Senator Rulewski has a voice of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u243	There should be at least two corrections during these five minutes, although there should be more. Well, for example. Senator Bobko was talking about a culture of manipulation. It's a Polish lie or cheat. Even if it is supposed to be manipulation, I think it is a mild term for the arson of Poland by the media. The script in the recent case, in the court case, was that journalists were given guidelines to set the courts on fire. It was these famous five or finally seven cases out of 10,000 people, when they were not proven and not sentenced to the end, that turned out to be the face of the entire Polish judiciary. They burn journalists, they don't manipulate journalists, they set journalists on fire, they make politicians. Yes, Mr. Senator, they were able to make great changes, so-called. reforms. And the manipulation in this case is not that people expect these five to be put in prison... People expect things to go faster, that the judgments that have passed be executed, that the dignity of a man in the courts should take place and that the courts should not serve and that justice should be served. But none of these journalists... And this is another corrigendum, Mr. Editor... I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but I think it was you who said that Senator Borusewicz wasn't journalists. Journalism is a craft, it's a profession. These are editors, editors... As you know, today in the world, we do so that anyone who writes on the Internet is an editor. What's more, an editor like Rachoń is a truth hacker. After all, he's taking money not for driving... but for denying the truth, for throwing the truth of bastards in the form of debaters. And that's the charge to Senator Ryszka. You were critical of what, of course, you have the right to do, especially as a man who professes the principle of truth as a fundamental principle of Christianity, word and truth... But how did you find out about the Khlebowski gambling incident? Where did you get such fluently repeated sentences from the scandal of the Owl and his friends? From public television. And I'd like at least one show on public television to be about a friend. # To say no more # Mr Macierewicz. At least one show showing his way of life and this fast, above average promotion. [[What promotion?]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It would be good for them to show what happens to him after he falls, how he feels... [[Jake, how was he in Radom, then...]] [[Voice from the room: Let's talk.]] And ending up right because I want to respect these five... And now, unfortunately, one charge here for television is, both at that time and present. Technology gives you different possibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, today we live in an open world, in a full, wide world, which is this village, and our public television, but unfortunately behind it almost entirely private television, only that there play a role of costs, closes our world to Wołomin, Grodziska, all this Poland actually lives only what is in Warsaw and around Warsaw. Meanwhile, the world is bigger, and it's not just how it turns out that crowds of refugees are attacking Europe or that there are gay parades in Berlin, actually crowded. This television should at least show what not only politicians in the European Parliament are debating, but also judges, and maybe it should show the shortcomings of a Europe that cannot control its borders, but these are prepared projects... Maybe this television should also show what is happening in other countries that Singapore, even though it should not exist in theory, should sink or be absorbed by the Chinese power, is developing even more than ever. This television is unfortunately specific and is closed in its self-righteousness, because it is ruled by it. Already, Mr. Marshal, one last thing. Not journalists, but random amateurs. Why? Among other things, because I want to defend these editors or others here... There's not enough resources. Good TV is finance, and finance is when people pay a subscription, which is when TV viewers go handy with politicians, especially national ones. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u244	Senator Zdrojewska has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u245	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of words have been said here today. I may repeat myself, but sometimes it's worth hearing things again. I don't think that bad TV's ever happened before. At least I don't remember it. This TV... It's horrible what I'm gonna say. For communism television was made by specialists, and now television is made by really mediocre propagandists. And that's the problem with TV right now. Am I being literal? No. The facts are behind what I'm saying. The public television is out of the picture. Unfortunately, they leave even such popular programs as Teleexpress, which is one of Poles' favourite programs. Poles not only leave information programs, but also choose private television. I'm not surprised that some heads have such ideas now to eliminate something or mess with private television. You're just hoping that maybe then the viewer will come back to you. No, he won't. He's not coming back because he's not a stupid spectator who's gonna be watching things you're broadcasting. Senator Czarnobaj gave some examples here. I've made another one of my favorites. It's about the inscriptions on the famous stripes that flew on TV the day Trump arrived, about the inscriptions saying that the PO is trying to start a political storm on the day he arrived. That was the sign on the belt on public television. And this is Marshal Kuchciński who called the Sejm on this day. He didn't have to do that. . and appointed a debate on the cancellation of Minister Błaszczak. It was, but the TV didn't see it. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz said that television makes a mistake, mixing comment with information. And that's the truth. Television constantly mixes commentary with information, but it's not a mistake. It's just manipulation. This is propaganda. Let's call things by name. Like a blonde lady sitting there wants to laugh and doesn't want to listen to me... You don't have to do that. We have to sit here because we work here. You don't have to, Dear Lady of the National Council. I would like to say that you are responsible for all this. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, we discussed the Act on the National Media Council, a completely meaningless act. I think you're ashamed because now you see that it wasn't needed for anything except one staffing procedure. Law and Justice does so that if he needs someone to trade, he writes a bill and then prepares another one. It's really embarrassing. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am saying about TVP3 unfortunately also applies to the news from which the viewers have left. This applies to the whole programme of the first, where we deal with extremely ugly cases which are elements of propaganda, and suddenly change the framework in connection with political events. I'm not being literal around here. Let me remind you of this change of routine. On Saturday at 11:50 p.m. and on Sunday afternoon, a film was shown, reminding... That's what happened last time. It's supposed to ring a bell. This is typical Stalinist propaganda or worse. You may be upset that I am comparing you to Stalinist propaganda or even worse. But you know what Mr. Michael Rachoń said? He estimated that the courts after 1990 were in some respects a continuation of those operating during World War II and during Stalinism. That's what Mr. Rachoń says, Mr. TV editor. It's a shame. [[Very good editor.]] A very good editor? We're very different here. Ladies and gentlemen, what I would like to talk about is the destruction of confidence in television, because I will remind you that already 52% of people do not believe Polish Television, and 47% He doesn't believe the Polish Radio. It is the country that has led to this, and you are responsible for this. And, of course, Mr. President Kurski plus the president of the radio. You're responsible for this. Among sins... How can the Polish Television receive discharge from the Minister when it has brought 180 million PLN of losses? It's unforgivable. In such a situation, the president is thrown out, changed, and given to someone who simply knows how to do so. And how do you know someone who makes a terrible discopole New Year's Eve in Zakopane for 6 million zlotys? $6 million for one night. Ladies and gentlemen, you will now perform a series about Kazimierz the Great, because you have remembered that not only propaganda is your task, but also historical policy. Well, I'm scared and I'm anxious about this show. The Opole scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, this was not in the entire history of the Polish Television, so that there would not be a festival in Opole at the moment when it should be held, and for this you are responsible for the President and the State. The Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. Even sick kids bother you? Collecting money for older people, for sick children? It even bothers you, you're kicking it off TV. You also do things that are unacceptable, such as: promoting a new portal for Mr Karnowski on television without an appropriate agreement. You can't do that. I would like to quote Mr Kurski's statement: "If TVP journalists defend the PiS, they balance the pro-oppositional tilt of most media." So most of the media has some kind of tilt. President Kurski therefore thinks he has to tilt. He admitted to repairing it and making power sound good, so that power would only boast, that the main topic, almost two years after the election, would still be the Civic Platform, hopeless opposition, as evidenced by all these already famous stripes on TVP Info. If one of the senators in the opposite camp convinces me to do so, he'll have some arguments for not being propaganda television, and it's... And rightly said Marshal Borusewicz I've noticed that, too. That some journalists have left Trwam Television, and it is really possible to watch it right now. That's something... [[The Holy Spirit is watching.]] From the Television Republic, and from the Republic it's almost completely somewhere... This is amazing. But it's awfully sad, ladies and gentlemen, if there's one more thing I have to say, because I don't think anyone's talking about it. This is really disgusting, disgusting manipulation of society, and this applies to refugees. Primitive anti-refugee propaganda in Polish Television. [[You're so brave in words: disgusting, gross... this is not an House where you use words like that.]] Now, I'm gonna tell you... Let me give you an example, Senator. Every time I give an example here, I don't want to be literal. Did you know that the news came from fake news, the sketch where the incident was shown, how an Islamist enters the wine shop... [[Time's up.]] ...in Ramadan and it starts to knock down these wines? It's just something amazing, I mean. so unprofessional people work in Polish Television that they are unable to distinguish between sketch and truth. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that... this has already been quoted today. Defenders of pedophiles and alimentiaries That's what you call those people who are standing under the Seym right now, and those people who were standing in the Constitution Square. I was standing there too, so here you go, I'm a worse sort, I can be a defense attorney. But doesn't that remind you of something? Doesn't that remind you of the terms "spoiled dwarfs"? It's all the same. [[No.]] Same source and same style. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u246	Senator Czarnobaj has a voice for the second time in five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Continuing what concerns Polish national media, I would like to say this: to say that national media is a tube of rulers, it's like not to say anything. And this sentence reflects the nature of what is happening in national media. And what this reminds me of, what she asked in the last sentence of Senator Zdrojewska... Do you remember, especially as famous characters as Senator Rooster, Senator Rulewski and many other heroes of Polish August, those words about guardhood? Who showed them on the belt then? Free Europe? [[It was June, not August.]] I'm talking about the heroes of August, Professor. Listen with understanding... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] These are the methods that show the image and completely different content, so that the viewer will have an immediate application coming from the screen. [[That scoundrelism was in June.]] I'd also like to say... [[Let me finish.]] ...that the Polish Journalists' Association has several rules on its website Ethical Media Cards. I will not discuss them all, but I would like to draw attention to a few. The principle of truth. This is what a journalist working in every editorial office should be guided by, and especially working in the editorial office of national media. And as we look at what was happening around the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, the vanishing stamp strapped to the flap, it shows the truth and nothing but the truth... Back in the day, those people who did this used to preach the truth of time, the truth of the screen, and the truth is what we're gonna tell them. The principle of objectivity, or diversity in discussion. See such a discussion on Polish news TV. Well, getting ready for this meeting, I watched it for two days. You know, there were 4 invited guests: Mr Szejnfeld, 3 against and yet an editor against, and an audience against. Yeah, the objectivity was really strong in there. This open discussion, this beautiful discussion in which reason is the most important, not the sick emotions that show that what was before, what was so far, is all wrong. What we're building now is this beauty, this promised land. The principle of separating information from comment. Well, it's been here many times. I would just like to add that, when there were protests in Warsaw, it was on the belt that flew, you know, such an inscription: barbarians protest in Warsaw. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Right, how beautifully it was given? Look at the depths. Not only are they barbarians in Warsaw. All that was missing was that they were still colored barbarians, and that would be giving away what you want to create. [[You bastards!]] The principle of fairness. Can we talk about the principle of honesty, when on TVP Info, the reporter's accident, the prime minister, disappears a continuous line in relations showing why, etc.? Is this fair television? Is that an honest message? Why are you doing this? To show Poland in a curved mirror? You could say that the mission of television The media mission, but above all television, was replaced by party censorship. And that goes completely in that direction, and those speeches that were here clearly confirm it. And finally, ladies and gentlemen... I love what's related to statistics. And I asked the Minister here, Mr Czabański, Mr President, that the Polish Journalists' Association in response to the Freedom House study said that he disagreed. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a comparison... I'll read it to you. Freedom House wrote that the bias of information services produced by public media is everyday in Poland. Reporters Without Borders... Just don't tell me they're being financed by some American or German sources. Reporters without borders... The biggest drop in media freedom, 36 seats. Let me just remind you that the similar decrease, but a little smaller, you were weaker, was in 2006, 28 places. Well, then you guys were just starting this good TV. And they say that the media in Poland, especially television, became the propaganda tube of the government. And the second statement is to seek to disable independent media. These are the conclusions of the report by reporters without borders. The European Press and Media Freedom Centre and the European Federation of Journalists... That's the third one. Fourth: Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe... After visiting Poland and talking to different authorities, they wrote that there was a restriction on freedom of the media in Poland. Well, you're not gonna tell me these people aren't writing the truth. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal, last sentence. And for all this, on the basis of these reports, the editor Chapman did not know who it was, who wrote an article about the Polish media, at which the Press Freedom Monitoring Centre, which is the agenda of the Polish Journalists Association, wrote that this report and article are biased, presented the point of view of the funding entities, did not meet the requirements of either the scientific study or the journalism article. And you have the answer that the only truth of the screen is Polish TV today, and the Polish Journalists Association... And here I just want to remind you that on the board of the Association of Polish Journalists are above all the editor Skowronski and editor Wolski. And if you'd like to see their speeches, I would like to invite you. Then you will believe that what we say is true. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u248	Senator Rooster's voice. [[Stas, tell me the truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u249	I'm always telling the truth. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'm so happy for you. You know what it's made of? The Holy Spirit is watching over this room today. And why, Senator Rulewski? As I hear from Senator Zdrojewska and from Mr Marshal, the best TV is Television. I'm going on, it's my heart that's happy. [[It wasn't that bad.]] I'm so happy with my heart. Because I remember the previous National Radio and Television Council, when Mr Dworak was the head of the event, when there were so many protests, when millions of faithful viewers and listeners of Trwam Television and Radio Maryja went and fought for a place on the multiplex. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember because I participated in these protests myself. And I'm really happy that Mr. Marshal and Senator today are saying that this is the best TV ever. [[They didn't say that.]] And through ...I know it's going online, so I'm going to say, Father Tadeusz, congratulations on your fight being won. Dear Lords, so you love... Because we all hear that Mrs Merkel, Mr Tusk, are like best friends. So here's what I'm gonna tell you: in Germany, everyone pays their subscription. [[Right.]] Everyone pays their subscription. And how could you, Mr. Tusk, and now Mr. Schetyna, step forward and tell citizens not to pay their subscription? Here's what I'm gonna say. Whether it was PSL or now, I always pay my subscription. I always pay my subscription. Ladies and gentlemen... I'm surprised, Jasi, Senator Rulewski, that you are attacking Minister Macierewicz. This man was wearing an NRA... [[Minister...]] Excuse me, this man with Minister Naimski founded KOR, was in Radom, fighting for free, independent Poland. How's your mouth, my friend, coming through... It's like I would attack Senator Klich today. I have different views, but for what he did in Solidarity, I will never say a word about him. Let's get some sense into each other. TV is really free, it's free. We realized, we people of Solidarity, the fourth postulate from the gate in Gdańsk Shipyard, where it was about free media, where it was in the free press. It is today that I remember the inscription that we do not wish for the People's Tribune, the Soldier of Liberty and the Green Flag. You all know that the People's Tribune was a newspaper of PZPR's cameras, that the People's Soldier was a WSI newspaper and all Ubec services... [[What about the election, Stas?]] And the Green Flag is, you know, there was propaganda, I don't know, the ZSL... I don't really remember that anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that some of the attacks are really unjustified because these reporters are changing television... You attack Mr. Rachon and many others. Janek, I can tell you that. I'm turning on TV yesterday, and I can see you're in news. Enable Info They connect with Bydgoszcz. I'm turning on Voronica 17 on Sunday... [[And there's Rulewski again.]] ...because my wife and I like to watch after Mass... [[How much are you paying for this?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... Excuse me, Mr. Senator, let me finish. I watch and see the representatives of everyone. Last Sunday, Mr. Editor says he invited a representative of the Platform, but he got an answer that only Szczerba... I remember, it was Sunday. Just Honest and nobody else. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's been a long time since the commune to choose who's coming... Do I blame myself for not being invited once? I don't have any. But I'm glad I'm on Radio Maryja and Television Trwam forever. I'm happy for you. Next case. You're attacking that woman who let go today... Ladies and gentlemen, let's say this. Thank you for leading us to democracy, because neither Rooster could protest, nor you could straighten up, nor could anyone protest. What is the picture depicted... If, gentlemen, I can judge your coup, your coup... Senator, I'm sorry... [[I'm sorry.]] Dear Lords, my reception and my wife, my wonderful wife, is this. We watch TV, show information... I watch TVP1 and I see they're showing Mr. Kievsky. Who's Mr. Kievski? [[Kievsky.]] [[Kievsky.]] Kievsky. Isn't that a divorced man? Isn't that the alimony guy who doesn't pay three kids alimony? For me, a man from the mountains, it would be a shame, first of all, that you're getting a divorce, and secondly that you're not responsible for your own children, for your own family. Who are we complaining about? TV? And chase him away. He won't be shown by TV, and then no one's gonna blame your editor for saying something. We're fighting together for retirement. Who's coming to the demonstrations? The entire establishment with General Dukaczewski at the head. Next thing. A young boy, a journalist, approaches the editor-in-chief of the magazine, which you love, and this editor of the shoe goes I'm sorry that I use such words, he treated and used such words that... Dear Mrs. Dear, my wife says to me: man, what's going on out there, don't go to the Senate because you might not be coming back. Dear Lords, speaking by men about the coup, about Majdan... After all, we fought for this beloved homeland, for this free Poland, the independent Poland! After all, we're glad the last remains of heroes were dug up on the Link. I told the president of the IPN that if they found Captain Pilecki, I would come to him with a bouquet of flowers. And I'll go! What's going on here? And we're taking those from the cellar and their heirs out into the street?! [[Applause]] How we are not afraid of God! If we don't have a conscience! Because because the heirs of the ubeks and the P.A.P.R.s come here, I'm not surprised, because they'd want to turn this country over. For me, I voted twice for President Lech Wałęsa, but for the third time, I wouldn't vote. And what, Dear Lords, how does such authority undermine legal manifestations, is television, the first program not to show it? And to his editor, Mrs. Olejnik, what did he say? I think you all know that these are words... I understand that... sometimes at the game, I spoke emotionally, too. I resigned, although I love young people... Ladies and gentlemen, are those the words? That's what the whole world hears. A Nobel Prize-winning man who should be an example in the council of wise men... Let's come to our senses. This TV has really changed. I see there are representatives of PO, PSL, Petru, Kukiza. What if there's no pluralism? There's pluralism. I, Mr and Mrs Dear, went to the demonstrations at the time when it wasn't allowed. Mr. Klich and Mr. Rulewski... You know very well, because I've told you before, Janek, that when you were dragged to Bydgoszcz on the pavement, and we were watching on TV, from Free Europe, we were learning about it, we were praying for you not to die. And now I don't recognize you. [[Me too.]] I don't recognize you. Everything wrong with your beloved country. Poland is a mother, as Saint John Paul said II, who kneeled as he left the plane and kissed the ground. He said, "This is my mother." And what, this mother we want to squash?! This mother we want to destroy?! Do we want to destroy these media?! And they're all "be." Dear Lords, I hear how we glorify the communists that they are good... Are they good?! So, the media don't have the right to show the Smolensk tragedy, they don't have the right to show President Trump's arrival? Or lately... Dear Friend Janie, how do you say the president signed the bill in his robe... After all, the President is the authority to give such things to my grandchildren. The Senate also has authority. If we don't rebuild authority in this country... This country is drifting, this country is drifting and drowning. We need to rebuild authority. As I said, I may differ with Senator Klich, but I will defend him everywhere because I fight for free Poland. Not Kiev, who's coming... And you resent those people at the National Television and Radio Council that they showed it? And why did he, with that ponytail, come there? [[Time's up.]] I'm going for it today... I went to my hairdresser last night to get a haircut. Today I thank God that I had a teacher like the minister sitting here, Professor Kawecki. Thank you, Professor, for your influence on my worldview as well. And first of all, I thank the parents who are dead, my grandmother and the whole family who talked about Katyn when under the pillow listening to Radio Free Europe, Lakeland and many, many others. I appeal for the sake of my beloved country, which is called the Republic of Poland! Let's respect the dead pope for whom... In every homily it was said: Poland is my homeland, you are my compatriots. And let's really remember... And let us not compare Kievsky with Senator Rulewski, Senator Klich, Senator Kazimierz Wiatrem and many colleagues. Let's not compare and let's not presume that these people are coming and the media are showing it. Glory be to the media for that. The report is wonderful because, as the people of the Front of Unity criticize the report, the PRON, who set up the Military Council for National Savings, have no right to do it here because they supported the commune, supported the system, and for money they sold themselves to everyone to live decently then, to enter the Workers' and Boys' Inspection to fly around the shops to exterminate people to take goods and then to live well. [[You've already crossed...]] I know, but, Mr. Marshal, these are such important things that please... I won't speak again. We're well aware of military meat shops, police stores. It was us, Janek and Senator Klich, who fought to eliminate it, to eliminate it. And with us, when you come out here, no matter who comes from the PiS, it's all for them. Let's be different worldly, let's be different beautifully. I value everyone. Marshal Borusewicz, Marshal Zdrojewska, admitted to their mistake that they thought Trwam Television was wonderful. [[They're gonna straighten it out.]] You have to have the courage to do that, too. You have to have the courage to do that, too. And if you'd like to know, Mrs. Zdrojewska's husband was driving as a train driver. Because, Jasia, you laughed at the railwaymen from Wrocław Brochow. And he paid for me as chairman of the National Section of Railways NSZZ.Solidarity, he paid contributions. And I really wish you all from the National Television and Radio Council, God bless you, go on like this. And really, the good of the country is to come first. And journalists are wonderful. Because the way they treated Mr. Rachon and the others at those demonstrations, I really hurt. I think: we fought for free Poland; after all, I do not disturb anyone when someone watches TVN24. There's no pluralism? And what did TVN24 do for previous governments? Who went on pilgrimages? Even as His Holiness, or Benedict XVI, or Francis were traveling abroad, who was it? There was no one but Trwam TV. They were the only ones who passed it on. I am truly sorry, Mr. Marshal, for exceeding the time, but I will no longer speak for the second time in this discussion. I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u250	We'll take assurances. Now, Senator Wind... [[Mr. Marshal, may I have the correction mode?]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u251	In corrigendum mode. Mr Rogut's speech was undoubtedly violent, but in this ghastly tone he was lost in my assessments, which sounds as follows: so also great appreciation for the president of the union of Lech Wałęsa, so for the creator of the Black One and co-founder of KOR Macierewicz, but with less recognition I refer to the presidency of Lech Wałęsa, and especially the altar of Mr Macierewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u252	I didn't understand the correction, but I'm sure the senator understands. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But he corrected it.]] Senator Wind has a voice now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u253	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I thank Senator Rooster very much for this speech and for such great emotions, because when you touch the hearts of the Lightest Republic, it is difficult to do it without emotion. We have a recording of the speech of John Paul II in Kielce, when he with such an incredible takeover, and probably for the only time shouting voice said: 'This is my mother, this land!'. So I understand these emotions and thank you for these emotions. I decided to take the floor briefly because this discussion is mainly attended by the Senators of the Civic Platform. Taught by our previous sitting, I try to be extremely careful, because quotes taken out of context or completely untrue about my person... well, they teach me some caution. Well, it was about a subscription, about a social attitude. Well, we weren't talking about social attitudes, we were talking about calling politicians, those who should feel responsible for the common good. And this call for politicians was in different times and always on one side of the political scene. So let's not twist and change. Media objectivity. Well, it's hard, but there's no doubt that pluralism is that pluralism in the media is. And those who are so critical of this last time, as if they are on the agenda and do not remember what was in the media when the Civic Platform and PSL ruled in Poland. Not only the information was usually mixed with comments, but there were many misrepresentations and misrepresentations. Well, there's a very loud yelling of a very small minority, very often organized. Senator Bobko called for the use of reason, recalling the figure of the great saint and philosopher, St. Thomas. The next senator liked it very much, but it would be more useful to apply the principle than to delight in it. I must say that I remember those bad times when the Civic Platform and the PSL were in charge, marching in defence of Trwam Television. [[110.]] This is a symbol of pluralism of that time. How many marches were there, how many people participated in them and nothing, and for a long time nothing. It's been months and years and nothing for a long time. And mainstream media with one voice behind the government of the Civic Platform. Fortunately, there was Television Trwam and Radio Maryja, although with limited access to society. We know how this access changed when Television Trwam was on the multiplex. I remember the statements of the President of the Court, President of the National Council of Radiophony and Television at the Senate Culture Commission. I will not quote them, but these were statements far from the truth, I am already ignoring personal culture. Of course, the committee meeting was devoted to the concession for Television Trwam, the rules of this bizarre procedure, because it is difficult to call it a competition when Television Trwam was excluded as unbelievable etc., we remember these details. Of course, there are a lot of these thoughts, and with each one we should argue here. The Opole Festival was called up, Kurski's president's fault... well, we know that. Taught that caution, that's where I'm gonna end up. I watch public television and listen to public radio and see all the political options there. But as you can see, equal rights for all are for many violations of laws, injustice and persecution. That's also how you interpret reality, as you can say August was doing a lot of work. Well, I remember differently. And I don't think it's the first time we've had that kind of inaccuracies. They happen to us. Thank you so much, God bless you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u254	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to speak with Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u255	Thank you very much. As far as I can remember, there was talk of scumbags in 1976, probably after the events... [[Voice from the room:...in June.]] Please? [[June.]] In June, yes. And in 1956, before that, yes. These events, unfortunately, I don't remember, but I don't have any such sins on my conscience as you said the senator, the type of participation in some PRON, PZPR, etc., etc. However, I remember the television perfectly from the times of communism, I remember it very well. But I'm not gonna talk about it anymore. I'm gonna talk about the words you said. Mr. Senator, I have to correct, but you think Father Rydzyk is listening to us, so I have to correct him. Well, we didn't say that Television Trwam is the best TV, we said it was better than the public in the information layer, and I suspect it was also religious. And that's to correct it. The second thing I'm gonna say... You've kind of provoked me to this, Mr. Senator, to mention the Link. [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I, Senator? Because it's for you. [[Please, yes, yes, you can.]] You mentioned the Link. I wasn't gonna talk about it, but this is something that... The state kicked out an actress who played in a show at the theater. She works at the theater, but she also works at the TV show. She played in some show that the TV president didn't like, she got kicked out of the show, and the president said that she wouldn't be able to work for a few years. A young woman who starts, you might say. [[Voice from the room: But why...]] But listen to me. Meanwhile, still working on TV, the person who, taking the attitude of a celebrity or celebrity, had the audacity to photograph himself on the Link with the bones of the Cursed Soldiers. [[But not on the Link.]] Take an interest in this, Mr. Senator, because I've seen a picture like this. I asked Senator Zarin if anyone could do something like this. Mr. Senator told me that anyone can come... [[Voice from the room: No...]] Well, that's what you told me, Senator Żaryn, said anyone could come and photograph themselves. Notabene is the same person, employee or TV co-worker who wanted to introduce herself on social media with a false insurgent. That's what I'm paying attention to. I'm not mentioning a name because it's not necessary here, but it was really such a embarrassing thing that I have to say here. Photographing with the bones drawn from the graves is something so disgusting... I think that television should never work with such people. And now here's the thing about correcting it. The senator has a different opinion about this situation with Mr Szczerba, but the Council of Media Ethics has dealt with this matter and stated that TVP Info did not allow Mr Szczerba to enter in contrary to journalistic ethics. So that's how it's been assessed by professionals who are on the Board of Media Ethics. And finally, about Senator Rulewski, who you see on TV all the time. [[Yeah, I see it all the time.]] I absolutely share your opinion here. I'm surprised Senator Rulewski's on that TV. He is very brave because the situation in which he is one has two adversaries in the program, and yet the editor joins this choir and is against Senator Rulewski... I think it's a kind of masochism to go on TV in this situation. Besides, these kinds of programs are quite common. Ask our fellow senators, colleagues from the Senate, who are invited to public television, who are talking about how they were invited and were supposed to talk about a completely different topic, but after entering it turned out that this is driving a guy without a hold, usually three on one. As I say, the fact that political forces are tearing each other apart is no wonder... [[That's good.]] ...but the fact that a journalist is a party to this dispute is really disgusting. Thank you very much. [[Can I make a correction?]] [[Come on now.]] [[Why are you forbidding me?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u256	There you go. Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u257	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes, Mrs. Marshal. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, because I thought my esteemed marshal was driving. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Senator Zdrojewska! If the corpse has been desecrated and this person has taken pictures, I will be the first to sign with you under the letter to the President of the National Radio and Television Council, because for me, the corpse is sanctity, definitely. That's what I was gonna say. And second of all, you know, I was listening, as I said, to Voronica 17, and I said... You know, I know exactly... I will not judge Mr Honestly, because I... His father was a boxer, he's from Prawowice near Tarnow, I know his uncle a priest who has a different opinion than Mr Szczerba... And maybe that's it, I won't talk anymore. But I congratulate the editor on the courage he doesn't allow himself to be forced to choose the guys he wants on the show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u258	Thank you very much. Senator in corrigendum mode. Please. It's a short one.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u259	Yeah, in corrigendum mode. This time, to my friend, who was willing to use my name, wearing a noun, i.e. Saying it's masochism. [[Yes, sir.]] Well, I say it's not masochism, but it's an emphasis that I live in Poland, in my country, and television is as much mine as Senator Rooster, and I won't let it push me out! You can only boycott something that is alien, which is imposed by alien force... [[Bravo, Mr. Senator, bravo!]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Bravo, Jack!]] Besides, with all the arguments, I also agree with the Senator's attitude. [[That's the most interesting thing to say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing... Oh, yeah. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted jointly by Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. The joint discussion is closed. Or Chairman of the National Media Council, Mr Krzysztof Czabański - I don't see Mr. President. - He wants to take the floor? But you are President Witold Kołodziejski. Is the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council wishing to speak? [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: From the point of view may I?]] Yeah, I think it's from here. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Not anymore.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, since proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled for the draft resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016 and on the draft resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2016, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the submitted proposals and prepare a report. I also propose that the Senate set a deadline for the committee to submit an additional report so that it is possible to proceed to the third reading at this meeting. If I don't hear any objection, I think the Senate has accepted the motion. There are no votes against. The senate has accepted... In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Good. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the vote will be held at the end of the meeting. Now thank you very much to the President and to all members of the National Radio and Television Council. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Talking in the O.R.]] High Izbo, we are considering item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Substances Depleting the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 564 and the report of the Commission In print No 564 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to present a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[You're welcome.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on the Environment on the Law amending the Law on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and on some other acts of Senate printing No 564. I will immediately say that the committee has been sitting today and proposes to adopt this bill without amendment. However, let me briefly remind you that the main purpose of this law is to implement the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union and the regulations of the European Commission implementing Regulation No 517/2014. This Regulation is already directly applicable in the Member States of the European Union, but some issues still need to be regulated in national legislation, e.g. as regards penalties for non-compliance or the establishment of a national certification scheme. In short, Member States are obliged to modify their national rules, not to create them from scratch. Therefore, this Act amends the existing Law of 15 May 2015 on substances that deplete the ozone layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases. The proposed regulation is necessary because the Member States of the European Union are obliged to notify the European Commission of certification and training programmes. Once these new regulations are introduced, they will be harmonised, inter alia. obligations imposed on operators of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment and fire-fighting systems and electrical switchboards which contain precisely fluorinated greenhouse gases. This applies not only to operators but also to natural persons who perform activities requiring certification. The most important changes concern, first, the extension of the certification obligation in respect of the enlarged equipment catalogue, second, the modification of the labelling obligation and the modification of the scope of the documentation carried out and, third, the adaptation of the criminal rules, to the amended national provisions and to the provisions arising directly from Regulation No 517/2014. As a result of the entry into force of this Act, the scope of obligations of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment operators with these fluorinated greenhouse gases, i.e. Refrigeration units, trucks, cold stores and refrigerated trailers, as regards the setting up and keeping of equipment cards, the performance of specific operations by appropriately certified personnel and the carrying out of mandatory leak checks. A significant change also concerns the scope and frequency of these controls. Following the addition of a new catalogue of equipment in Regulation No 517/2014, it was required to have a certificate for staff to perform certain activities on these equipments and therefore a new group of natural persons performing activities requiring a certificate for staff was covered by the Act. In addition, the obligations imposed on producers of products are changed, e.g. Foams and refrigeration and air conditioning equipment, as regards labelling and reporting requirements. We are also making changes to the administrative penalty of money by implementing the obligation laid down in the European Union regulations referred to above to lay down rules on penalties applicable to infringements of their rules and to take measures to ensure that they are properly implemented. The Act also introduces in the Act of 20 July 1991 on the Environmental Protection Inspection and in the Act of 24 August that year on the State Fire Department amendments providing for an extension of the obligations imposed on the Environmental Protection Inspection and the State Fire Department in the field of control and assessment of compliance with the provisions of the Act of 15 May 2015 on these substances. This amending act also assumes that within 6 months of its entry into force the Central Operator Register, maintained by a specialised entity, will be modified. The law is to enter into force 30 days after the date of publication, with the exception of the provision concerning the administration of the fine for the application contrary to Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Regulation No 517/2014, which will enter into force on 1 January 2020, and the provisions of Article. 9 concerning an additional examination which will enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. As I said, the Committee on the Environment calls for this law to be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u262	I thank the rapporteur very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Paweł Salek, Secretary of State, Representative of the Government for Climate Policy, is with us. Minister, do you wish to speak on the bill under consideration to present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Paweł Salek: Mrs Marshal, thank you...]] If you do not see the necessity, I will ask the question addressed to the senators. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators have that question? Senator Golba would like to ask you a question, Minister, so please... [[Senator Piecha.]] Sorry, Senator Piech. Excuse me. Minister, you're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u263	I have a question for the Minister about those substances that were used in refrigeration equipment at the turn of the 20th and 21st centuries. We were scared all the time with this ozone hole. This ozone hole... these images showed up every week, measured the size of this hole, it mattered so much that it even threatened the lives of living organisms on Earth. What has changed and have these substances been completely withdrawn from production, or are these fluorinated substances, substances of which fluoride is a constituent, still being produced? And if so, how much? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u264	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u265	Thank you kindly, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the bill that we are proceeding with today, I will refer to this for a moment. It requires this process because of the obligation to implement it in our legal order. This is an update of the previous law. Today we need to make this update because Poland is obliged to inform the European Commission about how the provisions of the two EU regulations on fluorinated greenhouse gases are implemented in the Polish legal order. In general, fluorinated greenhouse gases are gases which are also responsible for the greenhouse effect. Their conversion rate is very large in relation to the amount of tonnes of CO2 equivalent because everything in climate policy is always converted into equivalent in terms of carbon dioxide inventory, and we always express ourselves in these units. I will say this: today is the case, however, that technological progress makes the air conditioning and cooling system constantly evolving, and today these amounts of substances are consuming less and less, but at the same time because these are quantities going into thousands of tons of CO2 and its equivalent, the aim is to protect the environment so that the emissions of these gases are as small as possible so that they are in good installations and that the people responsible for these installations also take care of them properly. EU law requires us to ensure that the penalties associated with the improper operation of the installation are implemented... To be clear, Ladies and gentlemen, no one is in favour of punishing Polish entrepreneurs. That's not what this bill is about. Today is the case that every now and then there are various kinds of information about various kinds of harmful substances in the world. Indeed, in the past, there was a very serious discussion about the ozone hole. I remember that from my youth. Today we have a very serious debate about climate, about how climate is warming up. Before that, there were discussions about how much gas is caught. We remember such discussions. I assume that technological progress will make such substances less and less. As for the exact amount of such gases, I will allow myself to answer them to the senator when I check with the National Emission Inventory Centre, because I would not want to make a mistake as a minister. If your marshal will allow it, we'll give you that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u266	In writing, right? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Paweł Salek: Yes.]] Good. Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any volunteers. [[Yet...]] Oh, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the points of the Act does not enter into force until 1 January 2020. It concerns the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases. Would I ask you to explain why we're implementing him so late?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u268	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u269	Thank you kindly, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senators, in answer to this question, let me be clear: this is the result of European Union legislation. In principle, the majority of the provisions which are in the law and which must be implemented in the Polish law result directly from the Regulation. The regulation binds the Member State in its entirety, but here we have such a special situation that some of the provisions of the regulation must be implemented in Polish law individually, through the law. What the senator is asking is, as I said, from the regulation. It's about those records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u270	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Paweł Salek: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Wojciech Piecha. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we could proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda, but there is no Senator Rapporteur, so I will announce a recess by 7:30 p.m. I hope you find Senator Jackowski. [[Voice from the gym: The glare.]] Senator Żaryn. Time-out till 7:30. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 23 to 19 minutes 32]] High Senate, resume your session. We proceed to the examination of item twenty-eight of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 25th anniversary of the cancellation of the government of Jan Olszewski. I would remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. It is printed in print No 522, and the report in print No 522 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Legislative Committee a report on the resolution on the 25th anniversary of the appeal of the government of Jan Olszewski "Print No 522 S. High Izbo, let's start with why the Senate is going to make such a resolution. Why this House? Because the Senate was the only one in Polish state who was never contaminated by the original sin of free elections. It was the Sejm that was selected during the half century of communism, or actually indicated by communist leaders. It is the Sejm in the first elections, which some environments try to present as free, in 1989, the nomen omen on 4 June, was chosen in the so-called. free elections. In fact, these were non-free elections, because only in part could free candidates be selected for free mandates. The Senate, if only it existed, was always chosen freely. This House has never been Contaminated with this first-born sin, i.e. indicating candidates and the impossibility of their full freedom of choice. The Senate has a moral right to do so, but it also has a moral obligation. Why? Because the Senate apart from other functions, apart from other tasks... Its task is not to allow certain important events from history and social memory, moments of breakthroughs, which decided what was happening in the history of Poland and which decided on the further course of this story. The Senate must also have regard for historical justice, so as to give it to these environments, those characters who are sometimes forgotten or deliberately silent, proper homage, talk about their merits, get them out of oblivion and restore public memory. The Senate is simply tasked with conducting a responsible historical policy. In this House Of course, it is not only this House's responsibility to pursue this policy, to shape this policy, to set certain orientations. We do it, among other things. through resolutions. And this is the purpose of the resolution which we are now debating, i.e. the resolution on the 25th anniversary of the cancellation of the government of Jan Olszewski. I will read to you the text of this resolution, which was accepted by the committee on 9 June at its meeting. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 25th anniversary of the cancellation of the government of Jan Olszewski. On the night of June 4, 1992, in the atmosphere of a bloodless coup, the government of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski was cancelled. The first office supported by the Sejm was selected in the first free elections which took place in Poland after the end of World War II. Within less than six months of its activity, the government has undertaken a difficult attempt to repair the state and to break the pathological phenomena occurring in the Polish society and economy. He stopped the robbery, the thieving privatisation. He reduced the growing deficit of public finances, the printing of empty money resulting from the so-called. Balcerowicz's plan. He removed from power the Soviet agent placed in state institutions. It caused strong resistance to round-top environments and their desire to overthrow the cabinet. He was the first to take action to integrate Poland with NATO, leading to the signing of an agreement on the removal of Soviet troops from our country. The result was a conflict with the then President Lech Wałęsa, who, within the framework of the so-called. NATO-bis pushed for the idea of transforming Russian soldiers, military bases in Poland into extraterritorial offices of Polish-Russian companies and thus leaving Russian special forces' exhibits within the Polish borders. The action of the appeal of the government of Jan Olszewski began in May 1992. It was attended by groups, environments and beneficiaries of the Round Table Agreement: post-communists and part of the new, controlled by special services, pseudoelite III of the Republic of Poland. A direct pretext for appeal was the implementation by the Minister of Internal Affairs of Antoni Macierewicz of the resolution of the Sejm requiring full information on high government officials, Members and Senators who were co-workers of the UB and the SB in the years 1945 to 1990. The coalition of the fear of the informers, which was created in the Seym at the time, was patronized by President Lech Wałęsa TW Bolek. It was in his office that details of the anti-government action were agreed, which is commonly referred to as the night of the briefcase or the night of the change. The first attempt to build a fully independent and democratic Polish state 25 years ago did not go to waste. The Senate of the Republic of Poland thanks Prime Minister Jan Olszewski for his steadfast attitude in those crucial days. Today we can answer his question with dignity: "Whose will Poland be?" The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. So much for the lyrics. Now, ladies and gentlemen, a few words about how the committee was working. To be honest, this committee meeting wasn't very turbulent for the subject that this resolution is taking. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, who denied the draft resolution in its entirety and applied to reject the text in its entirety; Senator Jan Filip Libicki, who had doubts about the consistency of the text and maintained the motion for rejection; Senator Jan Żaryn, who in turn believed that the text should be adopted without amendments and made an appropriate proposal; Senator Krystian Probier, the chairman of the committee, Senator Stanisław Gogacz. There were minor ambiguities related to the wording of the text and related questions. Mr Leszek Piechota made an interesting proposal, in addition to... In fact, he proposed that, instead of this resolution, a conference be held to deal with this issue. Senator Aleksander Pociej, Senator Michał Potowy and Senator Piotr Zientarski, who, in agreement with the proposal to withdraw the project, felt that this story should be left to historians and that the Senate should not speak on this subject. The motion for rejection was rejected in the vote. Six senators voted in favour of the proposal, 4 against and 1 abstention. I would just like to add, before the discussion that will begin, that this text... I mean, at least I tried to write this text so that its contents contain as many facts as possible, and as few evaluations as possible, the evaluation statements that could be used to undermine this text. I would ask that in the discussion, if such a thing begins here, refer just to the facts, to this story and to remember one thing, very important. This twenty-fiveth anniversary is already over, but we are still sort of in the process of remembering it, and we have the chance to make those facts that took place on the Polish political scene 25 years ago, simply refer here, in Parliament and make a clear assessment of them. Next chance we won't have, next chance will be in 25 years. I wish you all the best. I'm gonna take care of myself, But I don't think we're going to respond to that. I believe that the Senate should address this issue and adopt such a resolution. And the fact that she's, to put it mildly, really... He's talking about reality, but he's talking about this reality without covering it, straight up, he's talking in a simple text. And in my opinion it is her advantage, because it is also addressed to those people who neither history nor politics do. We, as I said at the outset, are responsible for conveying and strengthening this version of history that was really, deceiving this story, restoring to our minds the facts that have happened and which have affected the fate of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u272	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant. I remind you that the applicant is also Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I haven't been to this committee meeting. Please tell me why there was such opposition from a part of the senators, in total different arguments were put forward, but in general opposition to this resolution, which, in my deep conviction, renders historical truth and tribute to the first democratic government chosen after World War II in Poland. Is there any way you could further highlight the background to this dispute or this debate or this exchange of views at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u274	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u275	Rather, the opposition was in line with political divisions, i.e. the senators, ladies and gentlemen, the Senators of the Civic Platform, although not everyone, as I said, has abstained from voting. I think he's coming from a certain accepted Although, as I say, this is my presumption, because this objection was not motivated during the committee's meeting, a scenario, a description of events, I would say, a common one, which has been established in consciousness, and which does not have much to do with actual events taking place, historical. And it is very difficult to separate from such views, because they are also associated with a certain political attitude, including today's action, with today's views, with today's view of reality. So this assessment of history is still so fresh that it affects current policy and also affects the attitude of a person on many issues in our House. And the effect is that it's storms of some kind of building built in part, unfortunately, on false. So it is also as if it is our duty that we simply lie this story, not only to the average citizen, as you can see, but also to politicians. [[One more thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u276	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u277	Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, senator, for this explanation. And by developing this content, I will ask whether it is also a coincidence that the date of 4 June is trying to be reserved only for events of 1989, i.e. partially free elections, well, fully democratic to our House, which has been restored, but in the case of the Contracting Sejm, which should also be remembered.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u278	Yes, it is, as the senator mentioned here. Even... That's also interesting, because it's a wider public opinion as if it doesn't know. Namely, the Sejm established in 2013 on 4 June the Day of Freedom and Civil Rights for these contract elections. But what were the civil liberties, if on the one hand the sovereign was given the opportunity to choose, and in a limited way, because in the case of the Senate free, and in the case of the Sejm, however limited, not fully free, but at the same time what is forgotten, at the time when the elections gave a negative result to the ruling party, i.e. the PZPR-ZSL-SD agreement and the affiliates, as regards the question of the elections on the national list, the election was changed in the course of the election? And it was done by the Council of State, unfortunately, with the consent of the Virtue of Solidarity. During the election, the ordination was changed so that, in quotes, of course, the word given to the communists could be kept. But this means that then in the situation of choice: either a nation of sovereigns, or a passing old agreement, which was still in power and which did not really have moral right to rule in Poland, had no democratic legitimacy, instead of a nation chosen this agreement. The Sovereign was betrayed, the nation betrayed. It is what freedom it is, what civil rights it is, if the rulers, and then effectively rulers, actually rulers were those of the headship of They betrayed the nation, its rights, its basic right to free elections, questioned practically the outcome of these elections and led to the fact that in the second round these places on the national list were distributed around the districts and were sort of planted, practically, with the key of all the politicians from the camp of the previous power, i.e. the PZPR-ZSL-SD? And the Senate, which is interesting. As I say, it kind of distinguishes our chambers. It also celebrated 4 June, but celebrated in a different way, namely the year 2014 in which the anniversary of the 1989 elections was the 20th anniversary, it announced the Year of the Rebirth of the Senate in Poland. Which is consistent with historical facts. The pronunciation of two festivals is completely different: here is a feast which should not actually exist, because it is an anti-sanction, if one examines them more deeply, and here the Senate, according to the historical truth, stated then, in 2014, that actually 25 years ago there was a rebirth of the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u279	Thank you, Senator. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. I'm opening a discussion. And I'll ask Senator Jerzy Wczyła to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The draft resolution on the 25th anniversary of the cancellation of the government of Jan Olszewski is logical and illogical at the same time. Logical, because according to Georges Danton's famous doctrine that the revolution devours its own children, the PiS is now entering this stage of the revolution. Let me remind you that Georges Danton said this famous phrase at this stage of the French Revolution, when France was haunting the terror of Robespierre. The logic of the situation is that PiS, exhausting its resources in the form of hunting Communists and informants from the period of the Polish People's Republic, begins to search for enemies among those with whom many of today's Senators of the Polish People's Republic have overthrown this communism. I would add that, in accordance with another principle, the lapidarized word "catch the thief," a particular zeal in searching for these enemies we see among those who have no merit in overthrowing communism. But let's go back to the revolution eating up our own children. In line with the logic of history, I am waiting for the moment when the PiS leaders will have to start eating their own members, because they will run out of propaganda fuel to build the atmosphere of purification of Poland from enemies. I don't think we're gonna have to wait long for this stage. And the second part. The project is illogical because it is the fall of the government and its cause, although the Law and Justice themselves have great merits in hiding the cause of the fall. The draft resolution states that one of the merits of the Olszewski government was the preparation by the then Minister of Interior of Antoni Macierewicz I quote: The full list of government officials, Members and Senators who were co-workers of the UB and the SB in 1945 and 1990. The draft resolution explicitly states that I'm quoting you again. The coalition of fear of whistleblowers on the list led to a bloodless coup. If this diagnosis is true, then I remind you that to this coalition of fear we must add the sacred memory of President Lech Kaczyński, President Andrzej Duda and the prime ministers Jarosław Kaczyński and Beata Szydło 'Cause they could've leaked that list, and they didn't. And I honestly say that I would like this list to be disclosed because I feel like she overthrowed the Olszewski government 25 years ago, so now it would overthrow the Beata Szydło government. That is why I submit a request for inclusion in the draft resolution, after the words of Bolek, the following sentences: The next representatives of the Polish authorities joined the coalition of fear, including the presidents Lech Kaczyński and Andrzej Duda and the prime ministers Jarosław Kaczyński and Beata Szydło. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u281	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gogacz. There you go. [[Me, right?]] Yeah, yeah. Well, well, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! First of all, I would like to thank Senator Jerzy Czerwiński for this initiative, for taking this initiative commemorating 25 years since the overthrow of the government of Jan Olszewski, commemorating Jan Olszewski, Prime Minister of Jan Olszewski For this initiative, thanks to which, of course, after the vote, we will be able... through which these words, which are in the last paragraph... These words, which are in the last paragraph: The Senate of the Republic of Poland thanks Prime Minister Jan Olszewski for his steadfast attitude in those crucial days. Today we can answer his question with dignity: "Whose will Poland be?" Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. Or is it simply Poland?... It seems that even such words have been uttered. And the fact that we will take this resolution and that it will be in the Polish Monitor, of course, will simply be immortalized... But what we find in this last paragraph is what we read about those crucial days, what has already been said... It was only three years after the Round Table, after the Caesar we all refer to. No matter how we treat the Round Table as a whole, we all refer to this censorship. Even 3 years after Poland, this state body was not yet fully educated, Jan Olszewski's government presents some proposals regarding the arrangement, the building of social order, political order, economic order... And at this point, And this is happening in the first democratic term of the Sejm, this time is very much, so to speak, young man, this is just the beginning of these actions. The government of Jan Olszewski is the first to signal in which direction Poland should develop. Of course, those signals that say there's an objection to pathological privatization, thieving privatization... After all, we still remember, our generation remembers, when we were told all the time that the state's wealth is by definition evil, a wealth that does not contribute to economic development, that the best development is on the basis of private property. And the best companies, the best bets were sold back then. If someone thought that those who took over the estate of the State Treasury were only private entities, they would be very wrong, because the sequence of privatisations, although already after the Olszewski government, also led to the fact that even state entities took over our state entities. This happened, for example, with Telecommunications Poland SA, when all of a sudden privatisation was the fact that Telecommunications Poland was taken over by France Télécom. France Télécom, whose entire shares were the French States. Jan Olszewski's government defended the economy against such privatisation. We remember the Szczecin Shipyard. We believe very strongly that we will be able to save this shipyard after what the previous coalition did when this shipyard was almost destroyed. Now there's an attempt to rebuild. But Jan Olszewski's government protected him from trying to ruin this yard even then. But, if you look closer, we have Świdnik, WSK Świdnik. After all, what courage the government of Jan Olszewski had to show as a young state, an entity of international law, who, when it comes to the new system, wants to appear in the world... And suddenly it turns out that there is an embargo on the supply of helicopters, helicopters from WSK Świdnik to Burma. Jan Olszewski's government cares about this embargo and sells these helicopters. And thanks to this WSK Świdnik... Now it is run by another entity, but then WSK Świdnik was defended. And the inhabitants of Świdnik, of course, remember that so far. When it comes to political orientations... We have NATO and we have the European Union. At that time, in 1992, there were not so many people, legal persons or natural persons, to raise such an issue that we are setting a direction for Poland as a country which will be a member of NATO and a member of the European Union. Jan Olszewski's government was the first. Those who are screaming so hard now were even against it. And then there's the mirroring and the decommunization. Ladies and gentlemen, it was obvious. Whether historically or by analogy with other countries that also came out of the communist block That Poland should go through this process. The actions aimed at decommunization and vetting were, of course, justified, except that perhaps there was not enough time to prepare even better the implementation of this resolution, but the government of Jan Olszewski had no room for manoeuvre to fail to comply with the resolution adopted by the Sejm. The Sejm passed a resolution, and the government had to comply with that resolution. I already told you about the difficult time, at the beginning, but please note: the overthrow of Jan Olszewski's government in 1992 and in 1993, after the overthrow of Jan Olszewski's government, it suddenly turned out that in Poland, as a result of the accelerated parliamentary elections in 1993, no party entered the Sejm. Well, no party... Only KPN then entered the Sejm and all right-wing parties were left behind the Sejm, so that there was a very high risk that, however, what we decided after 1989 would be lost and the elections in 1993 could prove it. Only in 1997, when AWS was created, did these trends turn out to be somehow different. Ladies and gentlemen, after the overthrow of Jan Olszewski's government, there was a huge social movement organized in the defense clubs of Jan Olszewski's government. This social movement was a bottom-up initiative. Nobody imposed this, no one from Warsaw drove or organized it. People, citizens spontaneously merged into groups and sent signals that they were defending the government of Jan Olszewski. This movement turned into a movement for the Republic of Poland, into a political party and then in the Movement for Reconstruction of Poland. So that today we remind you that it's been 25 years, that's a very good decision. I am convinced that the Sejm, as a whole, will adopt this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the Senate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u283	The Senate. [[The Senate.]] Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, would like to join you in thanking Senator Gogacz just now for taking this initiative, which may not be exactly on 4 June, so on the twenty-fiveth anniversary of the overthrow of the government of Jan Olszewski, nevertheless, for the very reasons that Senator Czerwiński was talking about, justifying this project, this resolution is absolutely necessary. I think what were the times... The film by Jack Kurski and Piotr Semka entitled: The night shift reflects the colors of those... well, in total the grim events of our latest history of Poland. There are specific issues there. You can see the mechanism of overthrowing the government, which, of course, gives you a lot to think about. At the beginning of March 1992, three months before these events, a study was prepared at the Ministry of the Interior entitled "Inner threats to state security', intended for the highest authorities. The conclusion states, among other things, that:: Start verification work and their first successes will mobilize some of the most vulnerable environments to actions calculated to paralyze the government or actually overthrow it. End of quote. So Prime Minister Jan Olszewski was well aware of what he risked, but he treated his mission to restore the attributes of an independent state serious and decided consistently to oppose pathological relations in the country. At the beginning of the office, a state report was prepared which deviates significantly from the optimistic development of Jan Krzysztof Bielecki's team, i.e. the previous Prime Minister, before Jan Olszewski. The government apparatus was a mess, and the state's financial condition was hopeless. The leaders of Jan Krzysztof Bielecki's crew caused public money to collapse. There has been an uncontrolled increase in the budget deficit, which already in September 1991 led to the break-up of cooperation with Poland by the International Monetary Fund. Key resorts such as television, which was still a radio committee at the time, and especially the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Home Affairs were outside the control of the first democratically elected Polish government. Leszek Miller, then Secretary-General of the SdRP, spoke in January 1992 in an interview with the Tribune, and I quote: "Many think that they have bought silence and that their secrets lie in the archives of the MMA. But perhaps not everything is at the end of the quote. He thus made it clear to Jan Olszewski's team that former PZPR officers have in their hands a lot of compromising materials and can freely blackmail the political elites of that time. Perhaps by politeness he did not add that the materials are also in other countries, which he was unpleasantly reminded of, revealing in Moscow that the PZPR was financed by the KPZR, although it was ensured that documents concerning the fraternal parties were destroyed. In the country still I'm talking about 1992, the permanent army of the neighbouring power, and their commander may have insulted the public and the government of the state in whose territory he was with his army guarding the Russian interests. Nearly half a year the Olszewski government's actions led to an orderly financial policy of the state and a clear increase in production and a breakthrough in the economy of recession. A draft of a reasonable budget has been drawn up, which has received positive assessments of the International Monetary Fund. According to a report by the National Bank of Poland from the end of June 1992, Poland has had a positive balance of the current balance of payments in turnover with foreign countries for the first time in many years. According to a survey of the Public Opinion Research Centre of June 1992, the Olszewski government did the most for the country in terms of taking care of military strength and defence of the country, fighting recession, agricultural policy, policies against state enterprises, fighting economic scandals and fighting crime. The adjustment of the budget and the financial discipline allowed for an increase for the budgetary sphere in the summer of 1992. Two important international agreements were signed with Fiat and General Motors. At the same time, work has been started on central administration reform. In international politics, treaties were signed with Russia and Ukraine, relations with Belarus were spoiled and the Visegrad Triangle was strengthened. However, what may have been said less on the occasion of the mission of the government of Jan Olszewski was the difference of views on relations between Poland and Russia between Jan Olszewski and then President Lech Wałęsa, who had her history. For the first time, it clearly appeared, although not publicly, during the Janajev coup in Moscow in August 1991. Then it turned out that another vision was presented by the president and another vision. His then advisor, Jan Olszewski. This difference of opinion has become more pronounced in the case of the infamous article. 7 of the Polish-Russian Treaty, because this point made it possible to clarify what Russian interests are or rather the interests of a supranational trade organisation that he organized in some sense KGB and other special forces. The Russians, obliged by the treaty to withdraw their troops, wanted to leave to the Vistula financial and intelligence assets in the form of de facto outside Polish control military bases transformed into a joint venture, which would legalize their presence permanently. Only the Prime Minister's veto, included in the famous cipher, and the threat of a great scandal at the last minute forced President Lech Wałęsa to oppose the Russians. It is worth noting that airports, garrisons and polices occupied by Russian troops stationed in Poland were used for the transfer of goods between Russia and Western Europe, allowing the old Soviet-born establishment, which had links with various organizations operating at the border of law in other countries, huge financial and commodity operations. The High Izbo, when the government of Jan Olszewski was overthrown, in the no longer existing writing of the World, the world newspaper, appeared a distinctive title, which is the best point of what happened on June 4th, or actually on June 4th and June 5th. The title of this article was: Olszewski goes away The agents remain. And that was the point of the situation that happened. So it is worth remembering this in the context of our discussions about the latest history of Poland. It is also worth remembering the achievements of the government of Jan Olszewski, who was not small, and which government in general opinion is presented as weak, incompetent and without its own ideas. That is why I thank you all the more for reminding Senator Czerwiński of these events from the latest history of Poland. This is part of the discussion on political correctness in interpreting the latest history, which is ideological and which is presented according to certain cripples, schemes designed to convince us to this vision, vision as just the right one, which is presented by the environments associated with the so-called. a camp of progress and democracy. All the more glory to the senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u285	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Robert Gawel. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, would like to thank Senator Czerwiński for this resolution. It is important not only from the point of view of Poland's history, the latest history. It is also a lesson for us to learn from. I can't agree with what Senator Senator Wright said here, that the PiS is trying to devour their own children because they're leading a revolution, and that the Law and Justice are looking for enemies. We're not looking for enemies. This resolution has one main purpose We want to pay tribute and thank the government of Prime Minister Olszewski for being the sovereign government of the Republic. Because that's what he was from the beginning to the end. Looking at the government's actions Some may be critical, some may be more positive. What happened as a result of the actions of Prime Minister Olszewski, and also as a result of the beginnings of carrying out the resolution, shows us what forces in Poland after 1989 had a powerful influence on the functioning of the state. It was a very strange combination of forces that formed such an agglomeration. They were also politicians and business world, but unfortunately, the mafia world, because that is what it is to be called those who did business in the possession of themselves during the first period of dismantling the Polish economy. We regret to say that the attempt to sign, as Senator Jackowski said, the agreement between Poland and Russia on the development of the post-Soviet bases has certainly caused great concern among these environments. And, of course, Korwin-Mikke's motion for an internal affairs resolution had an impact on the confusion that arose and resulted in a night shift. But the application was filed on 28 May. And on May 27, he entered the Sejm, the Marshal of the Sejm, President Lech Wałęsa's request for the withdrawal of the government. After his visit to Moscow. Is it necessary to continue in this Chamber to explain to you what may have caused this concern? So I repeat: Jan Olszewski's government was the sovereign government of the Republic of Poland. And that is why today, from the perspective of 25 years, it is necessary to As Senator Czerwiński said The Sovereign Senate worshiped this government. And it cannot be so as to repeat as a mantra what President Alexander Kwasniewski said, that history should be left to historians. Because if we can't clean up our own house for so many years, that's all, that dirt that's under the surface, it's gonna come out. If then, at the beginning of the Third Republic, actions were carried out which would serve the sovereignty of the state and the power of the state, there would not be those problems which continue until today. Unfortunately, it is regrettable to say that what happened on June 4th was a conspiracy of precisely those forces which, more or less consciously, sought to prevent Poland from being a sovereign state. Therefore, thank you very much for preparing this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u287	Thank you. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by thanking you too, Senator. It is very good that we can colonize, although in such a small composition, especially on the opposition side, those events that took place 25 years ago. Because 25 years is a good distance to think about what happened at the time, and especially in 1989 and 1992, with this apogee, which was the night shift. And there was, of course, a lot of things going on, and you can't talk about it in a few minutes. Undoubtedly, it can be said that this is the time when a sovereign nation on the one hand tried to get out of the ticks that were created by the rise of communist Poland... And these excavations took place at least since the cited act of the Round Table Agreement, by extraordinary, undoubtedly, because unplanned as they really did, the elections on 4 June 1989, then in an act of opposition to the fact that the government of Tadeusz Mazowiecki, who could have been a pioneer, became an epigon after a few months... i.e. what was called a fight for essentially recognition of the sovereignty of the Polish people, in a situation of breaking up, not only potentially, a communist party, but also a camp of socialist states in Central Europe, an uprising after the parliamentary elections of the first sovereign states, i.e. those whom we can say that the outcome of the elections was the emanation of the national dictatorship against the communist past, and the establishment of the Olszewski government, which also went towards the release of the nation. At the same time, for the same time, until 1989 and 1992, we can talk about a second wave, which at the same time created facts and, as it turned out, was stronger. This is the wave that, you can say, created the communist side in 1988 and 1989, preparing for the Round Table and having no doubt more skills and arguments than the solidarity side. It is about the possibility of preparing for an act that we can call sharing power or rather sharing responsibility for the destruction of the state while remaining in power as long as possible. Let me remind you that these three, Urban, Pozoga and Piozek, who were surgically preparing the Round Table's talks, predicted that it would indeed be necessary to share power with.Solidarity. At the same time, she assumed that "Solidarity' would not bear the economic crisis and would be compromised. Then after 4 years the party will return to political power and rule as a legal communist formation with social legitimacy. This was seen at the level of preparation for the Round Table, and then in the results of the Round Table, the communist side clearly prepared itself by selecting groups of people from the widely understood camp, which groups and specific individuals were to deserve to be called constructive opposition and implement the plan together with the communists. The result of this series of events, where the subjectivity of the nation was not present at all, and the contract was present, was the moment when, after the election on June 4th, it turned out very quickly that the electoral rule had to be changed so that this contract conspiracy of the Round Table could be fulfilled. The Mazowiecki government decided to continue the Round Table arrangement, although it had a choice, especially after autumn 1989. We all remember that argument. The government continued this because it considered that the documents signed with the other party required respect. It is as if with an external supervisor, the power resulting from the domination of the Soviet Union signed contracts which would be more important than sovereignty. But it was the other way around. Temporary contracts signed due to a situation which was variable in 1989 could not be risked of bloodshed of the nation It was to be destroyed because the value was not the contract, but the sovereignty and democratic system, which was to guarantee that this sovereignty would be preserved. In fact, the Olszewski government was the only government in those early years who knew from the beginning to the end that there was no choice, no alternative. The Polish government is to uphold the sovereignty of its own nation, and the illusory resolution, whether properly formulated by Janusz Korwin-Mikke or not, was part of a much wider project, which was at the beginning of that government. This project was based on the fact that instead of colluding the elite is sovereignty. What was the collusion of the elite we recognized in June 1992? The fact that only elites had the right to access the truth about the Polish People's Republic for ever, and the Olszewski government with Mr Antoni Macierewicz, deciding to execute the resolution, de facto unlocked this knowledge and from hidden knowledge. But he didn't do universal knowledge for all. One of the conditions of sovereignty is that knowledge available to elites becomes universal. And these elites were meant to continue in conspiracy. No doubt it can be said that this contract, which we often call collusion, would actually lead to the subordinateness of the nation resulting from this blackmail, which still played a role in 1989, and which blackmail could no longer fulfil this function in 1992. This blackmail was based on the fact that in 1989 there was still a concern about how the fate of Central and Eastern Europe would turn out. There was a fear of re-entry, according to Breznev's doctrine, of Soviet troops. But that fear was long gone in 1992. Therefore, it was necessary to find another way for the Polish nation, so that it did not fall into independence. How important it was to hide the reality concerning both the Polish People's Republic and the structures of the Polish People's Republic that passed to this so-called. a democratic state and settled in the economy through various activities of the various sectors of the country at that time. They settled virtually everywhere, but this economy has undoubtedly proved to be the most sensitive place of these post-communist elites, who are already in an alliance with some elites of "Solidarity," who have decided to take advantage of this idea of Pozoga, Urbana and Pioka. [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] It is therefore undoubtedly And this is also seen in this resolution. The story of fighting good against evil. And this is, of course, building a good, positive mythology. We all live in myths, all nations live in myths, and this myth On the truth, the myth about Jan Olszewski's government we should build, because it is also a myth about the right of Poles to independence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u289	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Pak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! When the events that we're talking about today were happening, I was still a relatively young man, a high school student, but I just had those memories in me, and I'm gonna try to say a few words about how I'm doing. then I saw as a young boy who was a little more interested in politics than my average age, for example because my dad was already active in politics at the time. And yet it was a long time ago because at that stage it was not I've even sent to the Sejm. He was a completely beginner politician back then. From this period, from these years of transition from primary school to high school I remember two events that involved great emotions. In eighth grade. At that time it was 1989, with great pride and enthusiasm, we ran with a poster of solidarity with leaflets, we engaged in elections with our parents, our uncles, with our neighbors. We were after what's said, the good side of power, and then, as kids like that, we were crazy proud of it. And there were these elections in 1989, and somehow quickly this spell broke. And it's Jan Olszewski's government. I remember as a government that had such a special moral charge. It seems to me that in particular the figure of Jan Olszewski embodied such elementary decency in politics. And even then, in 1992, such an ordinary Pole, who in 1989 believed so completely in the idea of Solidarity, very much this elementary decency was lacking in politics, lacked truth, integrity, fidelity to the idea of Solidarity, also in the bosom of Solidarity, among its people. And it was a great drama of Poland reborn after 1989, that three years after these elections we faced such a very drastic event, such a drastic, negative breakthrough, which was the overthrow of the government of Jan Olszewski. And also since then, Poles have waited for many, many years for a government that will carry such a strong load of decency, honesty, restoration of ideals, because already we could not count on this great symbol, which still a few years earlier was Lech Wałęsa. I am not talking about such people as politically aware and historically as present here, I am talking about ordinary Poles who, however, believed in Lech Wałęsa, because at that time most people in Lech Wałęsa believed in Lech Wałęsa. She believed in him as if he were an icon, believed in him as if he were a pope. It can be said that they were such two great figures, exchanged by ordinary Poles with one breath. And it was in 1992 that it had already completely collapsed, there were no authorities, there was no unity. And a year later, the SLD-PSL coalition ruled, and in three years we had President Kwasniewski, so we can say that the commune is back. Of course, there were also a lot of decent people in that environment, for example in the Polish People's Party, but these people were also going through various painful experiences later, they were leaving that environment, everyone was looking for values somewhere, just these values of Solidarity. Once again, I stress this: for me as a teenager, a young man, Jan Olszewski was such a symbol of an honest man in politics, a man who paid a very high price for this honesty, because I refer to what Senator Żaryn said just because he did not accept the philosophy of this arrangement, lost his power and never returned to the political position from which he fell. However, he has always stressed that there are matters more important than any political situation and that he loses his head here, loses his honor. Later on, such decency was created by various social, political movements, which partially, in some way, came to power. For example, the League of Polish Families strongly emphasized this patriotic, national, sovereign cargo, but it was always just some attempts to issue sovereignty, and then again for various reasons, even though due to some political path of the leaders of these political movements, it never managed to do so. And I think... Finally, we reached this time, the current term of law and justice, a party which also strongly emphasized these issues, the issue of integrity and the issue of sovereignty of the Polish state, the Polish nation. To sum up, I think that we Poles are particularly susceptible to these emotions, these values. I think that no party in Poland, no environment will last long if it is this moral foundation that forgets. So this is also a science for us in the future so that we remember these fundamental values. I think we remember, and I wish we could remember as long as possible. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u291	Thank you very much, Senator. That's why we've exhausted the list... [[And Mr. Czerwinski.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this discussion. I would like to conclude by summing it up in this way: we not only honor the government of Jan Olszewski and Prime Minister Jan Olszewski with this resolution, but also impose a certain obligation on ourselves. Because this statement that today we can answer the question asked by Prime Minister Jan Olszewski: 'Whose will Poland be?', it is a commitment for us for sure until the end of this term. The point is that we can always answer this question dignifiedly and in line with what Prime Minister Jan Olszewski was thinking by asking this question. And since an amendment has been tabled, Mr Marshal, I have a request that the Marshal oblige the Legislative Commission to meet at this meeting and present a report so that we can have a third reading at this meeting and pass a resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u293	Good. Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Vistula. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Senator Czerwiński has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemoration of the victims of the Polish operation of the NKVD from 1937. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 523, and the report is published in print No 523 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission has indeed taken up the draft resolution on commemorating the victims of the Polish operation of NKVD from 1937. At its meeting on 27 June, it considered the proposal and introduced amendments during the discussion. These amendments were accepted in a very consistent manner. They were introduced by senators of both the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice Platform. I'll have a unified text in a minute, let me read it. But before that happens, I'd like to say a few more sentences. I promise there will be no longer speech or historical lecture, but these few sentences, I think, are needed. We commemorate the victims of the crime, which took place mainly in 1937 by order of the Soviet authorities of 11 August 1937. This order, as it turned out in practice, caused the murder of more than 111 thousand Poles who were then citizens of the Soviet Union without their will, one of the cruelest countries that humanity has created. This unusual, genocideous crime has not only escaped the perpetrators for the entire duration of the Soviet Union, but there was neither force nor mobilization nor ability to claim the truth about that genocide. But also for the long years of our Republic, after 1989, also, as we can say to ourselves today, created. It is the formulation of a beautiful neology, as you know, which Bolesław Leśmian called in one of his poems and which is often the key to understanding what is not only imperfect, but also in its inner sense evil. And it was this evil that, for so long as it was victorious, that lasted practically until recently. Only works of historians, Professor Ivanov, Dr. Tomasz Sommer and several others, works of the scientific community, which here also We often recall, that is, the Institute of National Remembrance, slowly, slowly extricating the truth about the genocide, resulting in the murder of more than 111 thousand Poles. This truth is important not only because every such inhuman act should undoubtedly be revealed, branded, and all who might feel the need to make amends have the right to do so. In this case, too, this is important and the truth about this crime must be made public, that it was done for a very specific reason. These over 111 thousand Poles were murdered because they lost the experiment, i.e. They didn't want to be Soviets. They lost the experiment, which was designed for them in the 1920s, to build a new man who would still speak Polish, but was to be primarily a godless and Soviet. This main press body, which was going out in Marchlewsko, in Dierżyńska, in these Polish-speaking communities, promoted by the union of godless people, was to perform the task of transforming the whole Polish soul of those Poles who lived there. But as it often appeared in Polish history, when fighting this deeply Polish nature, it turns out that even the largest animal, the greatest dictator, the greatest criminal ideology and practice of government are not able to destroy this soul. And this is worth emphasising also for this reason: these 111 thousand people were brutally murdered because they wanted to stay in Poland and Catholicism. And this is the obvious dimension of this victory after years, when we will remind about it today and pass such a resolution. Therefore, not only do these people deserve this, but we deserve this lesson, so that we also know that Polishness is not just a quality. Polityka is a really serious task. This polishness is the duration of a specific set of values, that is, the duration of a particular reality which has been operating in this nation since 966 and this is therefore a permanent commitment. If you don't mind, I will now read this text of the proposed resolution. On the commemoration of the Polish victims of the crimes of the NKVD from the years 1937 and 1938. On 11 August 1937, the National Commissioner for Internal Affairs of the USSR Nikolai Jeżov, at the request of Joseph Stalin, issued the order number 00485, which began the so-called Polish operation Its purpose was the Poles living in the former border lands of the Republic, which under the Russian Treaty of 1921 took over the Soviet Union. This gave rise to a ruthless extermination action, which was a crime of genocide directed against Poles, whose determinant was purely Polish nationality. The devastating scale of this genocide is reflected in numbers. Although Poles represented 0.64% of the Soviet Union's population, among the victims of Stalin's Great Terror in 1937 there were more than 15% of them. Some estimates from the years 1937 and 1938 even indicate that this was 20%. At that time 111,000 091 people were murdered, and another 28,000 744 were sentenced to a long stay in the camps. The brutality of the criminal system is evidenced by the fact that families of victims, including children, were subjected to mass repression and resettlement. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, refusing to allow Poles living in the former border lands of the Republic to be erased from history and social memory, having regard to historical justice in order to conduct a responsible historical policy, pays tribute to the victims of the Polish operation of the NKVD from the years 1937-1938, and declares that it is the responsibility of the Polish State to restore their memory to Polish society and to the whole world. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. It's one of those resolutions through which if we take them We will sign up as senators in this reconstruction of memory, the true memory of true Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u295	Thank you very much, Professor. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Jan Zarin to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Gawel, and then Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u296	I will allow myself to look a little deeper into history as a cause and effect sequence, absolutely not justifying Stalin's criminals, of course in no way I want to do this, but I want to ask a question. Namely, as you well know, in March 1921 in Riga the Polish government delegation dealt with the Soviet delegation on the terms of the peace treaty ending the Polish-Bolshevik war. Art. 6 of the treaty limited the possibility of choosing the option of Polish citizenship and enabled the Soviet authorities to block trips to Poland. Even descendants of the independence struggles from 1830 to 1863 had to prove their activity to Soviet officials, using Polish language as common language, which indicated attachment to Polishness. No appeal procedure is foreseen. Most of them suffered the tragic consequences of the treaty provisions. I would therefore like to ask this senator if he would agree, of course, by looking at the entire historical sequence, with the thesis that this lack of imagination and political doctrine unfortunately in this case ended up leaving a huge number of Poles, Polish citizens outside the borders of the Republic of Poland. After all, we know that the chairman of the Soviet delegation Adolf Joffe said that Russia was ready for greater concessions in terms of boundaries, but the endec doctrine stopped it. Do you agree with this thesis? [[Can I answer that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u297	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, and yes, and no. It is true, of course, that the doctrine about which, in a second's time, accompanied by the Polish delegation, both Mr Dębski and Grabski, because it was the leaders on the Polish side who spoke with Joffe and with the Soviet side, was a real and important phenomenon, and indeed it came from the National Democracy Incorporate Programme, I will say about this doctrine in a moment, but without a doubt in March 1921 politicians, both Polish and worldly, could not yet know a lot of things. They couldn't have known, among other things. that it was not until the next year that the Soviet Union and this temporary power of Bolsheviks, which in the past years was fighting to remain in the Soviet Union since 1922, could still have lost. And the room had to be signed. Therefore, it can be said that one of the reasons why it is difficult to hold responsible for this intellectual weakness of the Polish delegation... It is difficult to burden, because it was the result of the inability to understand things that were anchored for good only next year. Of course, it is possible to discuss whether the doctrine was politically wise or not, but she said so much that this Polish country built after 123 years must ask itself whether it is able to bear this independence, whether it is able to lift independence in conditions where practically everyone around it is against this independence and sustainability. On the one hand, Russia, on the other hand Germany, but we practically had border disputes also with Lithuania, with Czechoslovakia. Is the inner Polish force so strong that it can be used to protect this newly regained independence? One such canonical question within the framework of this corporate doctrine was the question about the ethnic composition of Polish citizens. Undoubtedly, the National Democracy wanted to follow the Western European political doctrines of that time, i.e. it wanted to build a national state, yes, a national state, a democratic state in which there is an internal consolidation of the nation, which aims to ensure that the state survives not only building an independent state in the sense of protecting its borders, but also building an independent state. Unfortunately, everything pointed to the fact that national minorities, and the further east, territorially, the more they were, not only would they not be interested in protecting this newly recovered independent being, but would do anything to undermine this independent existence. And, of course, leaving these thousands of Poles outside the borders of the Second Republic in the form that your Senator referred to was a total mistake, but the question was whether Poland was to arise with a very clear internal weakness, namely that not all of this Poland at that time wanted or should have been limited by these potential internal enemies, since we had external enemies anyway. And that wasn't an easy question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u299	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Wasn't this a forerunner operation by the Stalinist communist regime? I ask because it actually rehearsed all the elements that were later used in the extermination of the Polish population. Well, first of all, deportations, because a significant part of this operation... What is not mentioned in the resolution, I will not talk about it in my speech, but more than 100,000 Poles were transported to Kazakhstan during this period. Second, the murder technique itself A shot to the back of the head because this was the way it was done... no, the slaughter of Poles in fact. And thirdly, the way you blacked out the memory of the crime. You could say the Soviet Union was a master in hiding this crime. So I have this question: can you confirm, as an outstanding historian and initiator of this resolution, whether it was indeed a wide-ranging operation, but also with elements of a frightening mystery of the iniquity of the crime syndicate, which simply tested its capabilities and techniques of extermination of Poles?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u301	Thank you. Yes, of course, in short, it can be said that all these actions of the criminal system, especially since 1928, when Stalinism has already been strengthened in the Soviet Union, this is a range of crimes not accidental, but committed intentionally in different directions. Crimes against Poles are one of the most important, but certainly not the only range of logical, consecutive facts. They will, of course, also be related to the ongoing de facto, despite Trotsky's fall, doctrine of permanent revolution. That is, the Soviet Union wanted to have the Bolshevik national minorities speaking in different languages, so that the revolution would radiate on the principle of brutally entering the territories of Latin civilization and transferring this revolutionary power. Unadjusted national minorities were either liquidated in the Soviet Union or pushed to a total margin, i.e. to the camps. The lag system was created in the early 1920s, followed by Nazi Germany, which introduced the so-called category. not so; it is de facto the official name of the category of people who have been excluded from the action of the Soviet law. In fact, under the supervision of the NKVD, people directed to the gulags played a very important role, that is to say, building the Soviet economy. The Soviet economy was largely subject to NKVD, not to any Ministry of Economic Affairs. Therefore, this breakdown On the one hand, murdering with a shot in the back of the head, on the other hand deportation or putting in the lags This is part of the same philosophy of gaining, so to speak, the forces of the regime, which must constantly consolidate not only internally economically, but also be able to transfer the revolution to linguistically foreign areas. Therefore, the Bolsheviks had to be trained to take power in those lands. In this sense it can be said that this is the most logical sequence of events. Of course, these events can also be written into a logical sequence of revenge, i.e. revenge for the 1920 war. Although in this case, taking into account the decision of the hedgehog and the anti-Polish operation supervised by him, it is evident that it is not was the main motive, i.e. not revenge in this case and the 1920 complex. In turn Katyn or the widely understood Katyn crime is evidently the consequence of this anti-Polish complex. But you also have to notice the third logical link between this crime and the Soviet system, that's what I emphasized. The anti-religiousity of the pagan system. It was not by chance the only state structure that reacted to what was happening in the Soviet Union, it was the Holy See, which published two encyclicals in 1937 after Pope Pius XI's decision. It was in February and March 1937. The first was directed against... the first was very clearly condemning Nazism, the second was condemning Bolshevism. It was the only place in the world where in 1937 the evils stemming from these two doctrines and pagan practices, i.e. from the Christian work, were able to be defined. No other liberal, Masonic force, any force functioning in Europe at that time, was able to see this fundamental conflict. All forces saw as the most important other conflicts, not the one that, as it turned out, was truly defined. Why did the Holy See understand this in the case of Bolshevism in 1937? Why did she view him as an illustration of action against human religion? Because the Polish or de facto anti-Polish operation was included in the 5-year plan, which was then implemented. As you know, in the Soviet Union everything was planned. During the 1930's, among others, they were implemented. a plan to de-religion public space. It means that in the Soviet Union this plan was to win. It was even tried to speed up its implementation, and priests were deported. This, of course, concerned not only the Catholic Church, which had a marginal significance in relation to the significance of the Orthodox Church, but the entire public space of the Soviet Union. It was to be free from religious superstitions. And since gaining freedom from religious superstition did not want to go as fast as it should, because human consciousness, according to Marxists, did not keep up with this challenge, it was necessary to murder possible hosts. A total of 200 priests were murdered. The result of the murders of priests of the Roman Catholic Church in the territory of the Soviet Union was that in 1939 there were only 2 parishes in the entire Soviet Union. The first one was in Lubianka, Moscow. It was surrounded by walls of the church of St. Louis with a French priest who was a bishop secretly consecrated by the Holy See. The whole time there was hope that the church wouldn't fall there. It was a French priest who, of course, was not there for the Russian people, but for representatives of diplomacy. The second church, which had the same task, had nothing to do with the evangelization of Soviet lands, was in St. Petersburg, where consulates and embassies of various countries were. These were the only two raisins on the map of the entire Soviet Union. And that was the victory of the Soviet Union over the Roman Catholic Church. This is also part of a great and terrible crime on the nature of a man who has the right to confess his religion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I have a question of a different nature. We, by this resolution, seem to draw from a certain oblivion a very large and at the same time a very forgotten group of Poles. That's what I'd call it. And as long as the Volyn tragedy broke through a wall of oblivion... I think that if you asked an average Pole about this murder, he would not be able to associate it, because at school it was not discussed and not yet mentioned in a simple public message. We're doing it, and it's good. Very good. But it would be good to have another permanent commemoration of this matter. Do you have any awareness and knowledge of whether the commemoration of these people exists somewhere on the site or here in Poland? Like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, Because if not, at least here in Poland, in the capital city of the country should appear to me and you should simply ask for an initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u304	Thank you very much, Senator. Clearly there is no such commemoration in Polish areas, which would be unambiguously, e.g. in the form of a monument, reminded the residents of the municipality of Marchlewsk and the municipality of Dzierżyńsk. These were two communes, one in Soviet Ukraine, the other in Soviet Belarus, where this language-ethnic experiment has been conducted since the 1920s in order to colonize the people living there. Also in the territory of today's Belarus and Ukraine, although of course in the case of Ukraine Bykownia is the place that affects many history, many nations at least since the 1930s. I thank you very much for this question, because for a year the Institute of National Remembrance has in its competence historical space from 1917 to 1939 and can undoubtedly address the commemoration of this drama of Poles living in the Soviet Union. I think that our resolution will help, and we too, I believe, as Senators of Law and Justice, can boldly ask the President of the IPN to honor these people.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. First: does the senator agree with the opinion that the Katyn genocide and the Soviet crimes committed in Poles during World War II, i.e. since 17 September 1939, covered as if in quotes Just a Polish operation? Usually, as it is said, Katyn is exchanged, these executions are exchanged or these four exports from 1939 and 1941, these events from our history. My second question is, did the Soviet authorities, and then the Soviet Union... Because at the turn of the eighties and nineties I heard that the families of the victims of the Polish operation were given rehabilitation certificates of these people. Does this not confirm that in this way the Soviet or Soviet authorities were indirectly admitting that this operation and those allegations which were made to Poles were unfounded? Finally, the third question: how is cooperation with Russian historians? However, we do not know about many elements of this crime, because it is all in the Russian archives. Is there anything the senator could say about this? Can these studies progress, or are there difficulties in accessing these archives? I am talking about those who are currently in the territory of the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u307	Thank you very much. I'll start with question three. One can say that there is a principle that is not written anywhere, but it is in practice, it is an experimental principle: the weaker the Russian authority is, the more open the archives. And there was a time at the beginning of the exit of the Soviet Union towards Russia, that is, in the days of Boris Jelcin, where there was evidently a lot of documents which were also made public, whether in the form of Mitrochin archives, or primarily in the form of what he extracted from Russia Vladimir Bukowski. That time ended very quickly. No doubt we already have much bigger problems, as historians in turn, to reach these files. However, it is undoubtedly always worth recalling the activities of Russian friends who have served the truth for many years, or Memorial. In the 1990s, their great, great courage, and knowledge of things also caused Polish historians to reach the recording groups mainly because they understood where to look, and this was largely due to the Memorial. But of course, as you can imagine, these are researches that have not yet been fully recognized. Luckily, the files concerning e.g. The crimes of genocide resulting from the great famine in Ukraine have been preserved in the area of Kiev and Free Ukraine are very eager to make them available. Similarly, e.g. the Latvian state, which was also established on the ruins of the Soviet republic. NKVD's copies of the files in the former republics give some scope of awareness about the depth of this crime, which was performed not only on the Polish people, but also on these nations, e.g. Latvians or Ukrainians. So the elements of this knowledge exist. Let's hope this knowledge gets bigger and bigger. I can't answer the second question. I don't know this rehabilitation mechanism. Actually, that's the first I've heard of it. I will learn because I do not remember that during the period of the Soviet Union there was any rehabilitation path for people, families who suffered as a result of an anti-Polish operation. However, you are right, of course, Mr. Senator, that Katyn genocide and the time of World War II have covered to some extent the memory of the Polish operation from 1937 to 1938, but it must also be said I refer to Senator Robert Gawl's question here. Unfortunately, perhaps also due to the fault of negligence, the Second Reichspospolitan was also not able to remember this and to extract this knowledge at all. I repeat, practically the only moral and ideological force that has decided to brand it unambiguously, but not from the point of view of the current political interest, as the fascists did, but from the point of view of defending humanity, it was the Holy See. She was able to condemn these two doctrines: Nazism and Bolshevism. So that in this sense there was nothing to cover with the Katyn crime, that there was simply no force that would be interested in mining before 1939 this tragic time for Poles living there, in the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u308	Senator Jackowski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u309	Mr. Senator, but from the information I have, it appears that our two girls, however, had an orientation... [[She was...]] ...in terms of repression against Poles. Well, accusing Poles of alleged ties to POW and spy action, disloyalty... It was the foundation of the accusation, of course unfounded, because tens of thousands did not undertake, could not even undertake, this kind of cooperation, because if so, it would not necessarily have a secret character. So the Second Republic, the elites of the Second Republic must have had some knowledge. I don't know to what extent The more that she began practically earlier, before this famous order, because these deportations to Kazakhstan began, probably in the 30th... [[A year earlier.]] Yes, sir. Yes, sir. So I have a question about whether we know more about the degree, scale of knowledge of the Second Republic about this crime. [[Yes, Mr. Senator. You reminded me of POW, which is an organization that had...]] [[Can I add something right away?]] [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u310	As far as the "Two" issue is concerned, I would very much ask you to approach the Polish military intelligence with greater distance before World War II. Recent findings show unambiguously that he was highly infiltrated by Soviet military intelligence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u311	That's what I wanted to tell you, too. Professor Piotr Paweł Wieczorkiewicz established as much as he could because of the source conditions at the time, that, as Senator Gaweł mentioned, unlike the Polish interview and counterintelligence on the German section, which was, it seems, much better organized... Although there were failures, of course, here the problem was fundamental, i.e. that the Soviet intelligence was much more efficient in penetrating the cells of two responsible for the eastern direction. Well, we still have a serious problem as historians today. Although I am one of those who treat this person as a Polish hero with Bolesław Kontrim, the person who stood in the leading position when it comes to the counterintelligence penetration of Soviet envoys at the eastern borders of the Republic of Poland, and led to the arrest of these spies, which later ended in court proceedings in Vilnius or Łuck. Yeah, well, the courts ended these cases in different places. And at the same time, there are still charges against Contrim that he may have been a double agent, and we cannot solve this mystery until today. In the case of our German operations, there are no more such mysteries, which also indicates that the Second Republic was in a better position here. Of course, the Soviets accused Poles of creating POW. Look at the organization the Bolsheviks chose under what name. It was supposed to exist in the Soviet state. The Institute of National Remembrance issued a whole volume of documents which were intended to testify to the penetration of the Soviet State by the Second Republic, and nothing was confirmed. There is no evidence that the Second Republic is at all able to enter Soviet territory and create any conspiracy cells there among the Polish minority. In fact, the only country I know it sounds completely unbelievable. It was the Holy See who, from the beginning of the 1920's to the Bishop's mission, tried to create secret diocesan structures from the second half of the 1920's to keep the Church alive there. All this was destroyed, and all secret consecrated bishops were, of course, arrested and murdered, but this also speaks of how difficult totalitarianism was any attempt to install there a quasi-autonomic space, uncontrolled by Soviet services.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u312	No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After the signing of the Russian peace in 1921 about 1 million 200 thousand Poles were found within the Soviet Union according to official data. Some say that there were even three times more. The largest part of this Polonia originated from the pre-dissection period and has lived in these areas for centuries. The second group consists of descendants of exiles to Sibir from the time of the Bar Confederation, Kościuszko Insurrection, November Uprising and January Uprising. The third group is those who voluntarily settled in the Asian part of Russia during the partitions in search of work. The fourth group were children and grandchildren of Poles who lived in the Russian Empire during the partitions, i.e. representatives of liberal professions, scientists, teachers and military officials. Many of them were among the elite of the Russian Empire. In this way, Poles, although in varying intensity, were scattered throughout the territory of the Soviet Union, and many Poles held a high position in the social hierarchy. However, the main aggregates of our compatriots were on the former borders of the I Republic of Poland, the Żytomierz region of Soviet Ukraine; and the Minsk region of Soviet Belarus. Polonia, as a result of the Bolshevik Revolution, lost everything: patriotic speech, customs, religion, national culture, possessions. The ratio of Soviet authorities to Poles has evolved, since initially relatively neutral has become increasingly unfavorable, and suspicion has begun to grow especially during the period of rural collectivization, i.e. in 1929 and 1932. During this time, antireligious activity was declared a state policy, atheization increased, churches closed, clergymen were persecuted. Arrests and exports to Siberia began. Poles remained faithful to their national traditions and Catholic religion and resisted mass collectiveization, broken in Ukraine by force and great hunger. Only in 1933 the population of regions inhabited by Poles decreased by about 1/4 as a result of deportation into the Soviet Union. In Marchlewszczyzna, founded in 1925 in Ukraine, the second next to Dzierżyńszczyzna in Belarus, the Polish autonomous district, which was intended by the authorities to facilitate the communion of Poles, was collected only 19% by 1931. farms, which caused the Soviets' rage. The Soviets came to the conclusion that the Polish national experiment was completely unsuccessful, and Poles considered the Soviet communist ideology to be opposed. There's a lot of pressure on the repression. Both Polish autonomous districts were liquidated in 1935. Between 1935 and 1936, anti-collectives were deported to Kazakhstan. A total of about 100 thousand Poles who founded as many as 307 new Polish villages And mass arrests began. These actions were intended to lead to the final dispersal of the Kresów and, by the way, to the full nationalization of Poles and the creation of a unified Soviet man. In the second wave of repression, the Soviet authorities ordered mass deportations of Poles from Soviet Belarus in the years 1937 and 1939. However, the basis for the most horrible terror was, already mentioned in the draft resolution by Senator Zarin, operational order of the NKVD No 00485 of 11 August 1937. Santa Claus. It was originally to be completed within 3 months. In fact, the trial with Poles lasted 15 months. In the order we read, among other things, I quote: "Everyone arrested as soon as their level of misconduct is revealed in the investigation process is divided into two categories: the first category, to which all spy, diversionary, harmful and insurgent intelligence personnel belong, is shot; the second category, less active than them, is placed in prisons and prisons with a sentence of between 5 and 10 years. End of quote. In the period from 15 August 1937 to 15 November 1938, more than 168 thousand people were sentenced to death, including 111 thousand 91 to death sentences, the remaining five to ten years in prison or prison, in fact most often for 15 years. The charges were false from start to finish. The active structures of POW did not exist and were a propaganda invention of the NKVD. The arrests were carried out in the night, mass, in haste, smoothly and without publicity. The action aroused widespread fear and was wrapped in a gloomy mystery. During the investigation, protocols were drawn up, in which the blame was briefly described, laconically identifying the arrested Polish counter-revolutionist, the enemy of the Soviet Union, a member of Polish counter-revolutionary organizations POW, a Polish kulak, a pawsudczyk, an active Catholic activist. Such preconceived protocols were sent to the higher courts with prior convictions. In the peripheral NKVD commands, letters of convictions were compiled and convictions verified, i.e. Usually, they were raised. The lists collected at an express rate were sent to Moscow, where they were finally and irrevocablely approved by the College in the composition: Commissioner Jezov and Chief Prosecutor Andrei Wyszynskij. Then the approved sentences were notified to the NKVD facilities in which the Poles were held. The shootings took place at night in the NKVD circuit headquarters. The technology of genocide was the same. Shot in the back of the head As later in Katyn, Kharkov and Mednoje. 250 people were murdered on the shift. In the place of the execution there were 2 buckets: one with water, the other with cologne. Mieczysław Łoziński, the author of the memory of these terrible events, wrote: "Each of the oppressors was soaked with the smell of human blood so that even the dog ran away and only from a distance began to bark nervously at the oppressor. The mass executions of Poles in the years 1937-1938 took place in Kiev-Bykowni, Minsk-Kuropaty, Moscow-Butovo, in Levashów near St. Petersburg, Smolensk, Kharkov, Vinnica and other places. The corpses of the murdered in the night were being exported with fine sackcloths to the surrounding forests, where they were thrown into deep pits and buried in well-hidden places. Historians calculate that between 1934 and 1938 he was murdered in the Soviet Union, mainly during the Polish operation, at least 150 thousand Poles. Tens of thousands were sentenced to prisons or camps, tens and even hundreds of thousands were deported into the Soviet Union. These victims include the inhabitants of Soviet Ukraine who died in the years 1932-1933 as a result of the so-called. great hunger, artificially induced by the Soviet Union authorities to break the resistance of the population to forced collectiveisation. It should be stressed that the victims of these terrible repressions were mainly young men and men of age. In this way the Polish element in the Soviet Union was very weakened and in almost every Polish family there was someone murdered, imprisoned or sent to the camp. High Izbo! Thank you very much, Senator Żaryn, for the 80th anniversary of the crime. The 11th of August 1937 is a symbolic date, the date of issuing this order, we can commemorate those of our compatriots. In this speech I wanted to outline the scale of this genocide, which was simply gigantic and which was foreordained in relation to these acts of violence, repression and genocide, which the Soviet Union carried out on the Polish population in the period after 17 September 1939. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u314	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to refer to the situation which resulted in the reschedule, reschedule or conversion of the resolution concerning the appeal of the government of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski with this resolution concerning the commemoration of the Polish victims of the NKVD crimes. In this way, I was prevented from taking part in the discussion on the appeal of the government of Jan Olszewski. And in this House, I think I'm the only one who doesn't know the case from the transmissions and the transmissions, but he was there in the courtroom, he was early, and he knows what this case was like. So I don't know what happened. This resolution on the cancellation of the government of Jan Olszewski is horrendous. It says here about the atmosphere of a bloodless coup in a situation where the government was voted off because it lost its support. In turn, he lost his support, he also lost the support of the Centre Agreement, which, in fact, voted against the cancellation, but he also lost this support. He lost political support. Then it is written about a round-top agreement and that post-communists and some of the new, controlled by the special forces, pseudoelites were involved. Gentlemen of the Senators, in talks at the Round Table, and before that, Lech Kaczyński took part in Magdalena. Chairman Wałęsa didn't take me... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry.]] I'll be right back. I just want to say two sentences... [[But now we're...]] Now. [[...we will consult on item twenty-six of the resolution on the commemoration of the victims of the Polish operation of NKVD from 1937.]] I'll get right to it. [[You're welcome.]] Lech Kaczyński took part in the Round Table meeting, Jarosław Kaczyński took part in the Round Table meeting and you call it a conspiracy controlled by the special forces? [[Mr. Marshal, we've already considered this point.]] I understand, but without me. Without me, you considered him in some surprising... [[You were on TVN24, as far as I'm concerned.]] It's okay, but I'm here now. Turns out the resolutions were changed. I came here to talk about it... [[I understand, Mr. Marshal...]] ...and express your... [[...but it's not my fault.]] ...disclaimer. This is an outrageous resolution. I understand that this is... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...a vision of history not only the senator who signed it. Right now it's becoming a vision of the history of the entire PiS. How can you put your leaders in that light? [[Mr. Marshal, we are discussing a resolution on commemorating the victims of the Polish operation NKVD...]] And now I'm going to... [[Thank you very much.]] ...this resolution... [[Thank you.]] ...Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you very much.]] It's a good thing we're remembering this so-called one. Polish action, because it was a crime on a huge scale. A crime that touched someone who was Polish. This crime was on people who thought they were Poles or were considered Poles by the regime. She first touched Poles in communist law enforcement agencies, those who went to the Soviet, Soviet, Soviet Russia and caused huge damage to the structures of POWs, which were at the beginning. She touched the traitors, but that doesn't mean they weren't Poles. Then it also affected the activists of the Communist Party of Poland, because the entire management of KPP was liquidated as part of this action. It shows that the repression was national. Within the framework of this action more than 100 thousand were murdered, while at the same time two Polish national districts were liquidated, where Polish schools and the Polish communist but Polish apparatus were present. 111,000 91 people were shot. How do we know? From the security files. Very accurate statistics were made. Out-of-court reprisals, twos, threes decided to convict these people and they were shot. It wasn't just farmers that were destroyed. This communist intelligence was also eliminated: the heads of collective farms, who were Poles, party activists, and ordinary people, on whom there were some reports and information, because the authorities of security worked longer and analyzed the information they had received before. Last time I was in the Podolski Stones and around here... If you're going to do that, gentlemen of the Senators, please take an interest. From the monasteries, from churches that were either renovated or renovated, several dozen trucks of bones with traces of lime were transported, i.e. they were not medieval burials. Unfortunately, priests are in such a hurry to make repairs that they don't notify law enforcement. We give money for repairs, we don't affect this situation in any way. Of course, you have to move, bury, but first you have to do some basic investigation: measure, watch how many bones there are. I'm pretty sure they're mostly people who've been shot because they've been shot... That number that was shot must have been shot in the area. Soviet service facilities were placed in monasteries, churches. There was a deep underground and it was possible to commit such a terrible crime without the knowledge of the locals. So that I have an appeal to your senators, especially those who are in the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad: pay attention to this, talk to these priests and say that this is not the way to do it. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Now. About 10 years ago in Lviv I met Stanisław Popławski, a Pole who took care of Orląt Cemetery. I've been staying with him for a few days. He told me that it was from these parts of the central Ukraine that the Žitomierszczyzna, the Vineyard, managed to escape at that time, and basically was called into the army. His father and two uncles were shot. He saved himself because he didn't go back to his place of residence anymore. First, he survived hunger because the whole neighborhood survived it, a terrible famine, and then the next family was shot. And he told me that it was 1998, 1999 that he had just confessed to his daughter that he was Polish. He was so scared. The daughter who came from Sachalin. This daughter found out that her father's name was Stanisław, and that she was Polish. He didn't tell his wife about it for the rest of his life. That's how this crime affected people. Much of the Poles survived. The most Poles living in Ukraine are in Zhytomir region, in the vicinity of Zhytomir and Vinnica. Those are the ones who couldn't be murdered. They've lost their mother tongue. They feel belonging to Poland, feel Poles, but they were afraid to speak Polish. It was undoubtedly a crime of genocide. Finally, it wasn't just a Polish action. So-called. Polish action, i.e. mass murders, was the largest, but it was also called. German action, during which Germans were murdered and even Finnish action. There was also a Latvian action, during which they began with those Latvians who were in the service and previously murdered others. Well, that's how we ended up working with the enemy. You have to remember all this. Once again, I support this resolution, but I will absolutely vote against the Olszewski government resolution... [[That's not the point.]] I will support this resolution because people murdered in the 1930s only because they were Poles, we should respect and remember all of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We begin to consider item twenty-seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the creation of the National Committee of Poland. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 539. The report is published in print No 539 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Legislative Commission met on 12 July 2017 and discussed the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the creation of the National Committee of Poland. The Commission has adopted a draft resolution, which I will read in a moment. The fact that this project was introduced is the round 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Polish National Committee in Lausanne, Paris, on 15 August 1917. This fact is a pretext not only to honor specific people, which is evident in the text of the resolution. I'll read it in a minute. As the initiator of this resolution, I would like to stress that this fact is also an excuse for us to think about where this, in my view, came from, one of the best Polish traditions of diplomacy, that is, diplomacy conducted by sovereign, free Poles who at the right moment could find themselves in the right place. At that time there was no Polish state, and they led to the fact that the non-existent country was among the winners. This is one of the few dates and one of the few events in Polish history, when we could tell ourselves that we became winners in an extraordinary situation, considering 1914, that is, the beginning of a great war. And it is worth remembering this event to remember that we have in us such dynamic abilities that can be useful today, today's Polish diplomacy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because, as we understand perfectly, and today it runs the sovereign policy of the free Polish nation. It is good that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can appeal to the best possible patterns in its memory. That's why I've been calling. And I hope that will happen. When this resolution is put to the vote, the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will come to our meeting and receive this resolution as a kind of vote for them, not so much to remember as to apply. And now let me read the text of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Polish National Committee. That is the correct name, not the opposite, of course, which entered one of the versions of the project at some point. The National Committee of Poland was established on 15 August 1917 at the congress of independence activists in Lausanne on the initiative of Roman Dmowski and his closest associates. Moved to Paris, where he was based on Avenue Kleber 11 bis, he was immediately recognized by France (then by its other allies) as an official representation of the Polish nation fighting alongside the countries of the Entent. Since 1918. The Committee was governed by the Blue Army and its commander General Józef Haller. The most active members of the KNP's founders were In addition to President Roman Dmowski .. Ignacy.. J. Paderewski, hr. Maurycy Zamoyski, Erasmus Piltz, Władysław Sobański, Konstanty Skirmunt, Marian Seyda and Jan M. Rozwadowski and many other activists, mainly from the national-democratic camp. The aim of the Committee was to regain independence by Poland, thanks to the defeat of Germany and their allies, and by means of Diplomacy and military activities. In this way, the tradition of the Polish-French alliance dating back to Napoleon Bonaparte and the Legions of Gen. Jan H. Dąbrowski and subsequent attempts to internationalize the Polish cause during subsequent uprisings were referred to. The Committee carried out intensive diplomatic activities in favour of the Polish case, among others. affected the final shape of the 14-point war programme of President Thomas Woodrow Wilson of the United States and placed a point in it 13. talking about the right of Poles to an independent Polish country with free access to the sea. The Committee established a network of its diplomatic representations in Belgium, Italy, Sweden, Brazil, the United Kingdom, the USA; it took the current care of Poles remaining in the West; it recruited the Polish army; it prepared with experts historical and legal documents on Poland's proposed borders, creating the basis for future peace solutions. The main source of KNP's livelihood was the private money of the Zamoyski family. After the uprising of Government I. J. Paderewski, appointed by Mr Józef Piłsudski, in January 1919, represented the main diplomatic and expert background of the Polish delegation during the Versailles Congress ending the First World War. Through their ongoing propaganda-lecturing and media work, they influenced the positive image of Poland in France, which is the main ally and host of the ongoing debates. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses gratitude to politicians, creators and activists of the Polish National Committee, thanks to which we found ourselves The Polish delegation in Versailles has not yet had their own state among the winners of World War I, which resulted in the presence of the Polish delegation in Versailles as a co-creator of world governance based on the idea of national self-determination and respect for democratic rules of public life. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. If you don't mind, two more sentences. This resolution and its content are part of what we call a good Polish historical policy today. I mean, we emphasize Polish successes, because we have them really hard, but we have to extract them from various decks of oblivion. In this case, unfortunately, one of the reasons why the forgetfulness of KNP functioned was the fate of power in the Second Republic. After the May bombing of Józef Piłsudski, after 1926, they wanted to forget that there were other independent co-founders than just the camp of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. Of course, in the Polish People's Republic it was forbidden to use Roman Dmowski's name in a good context, not to mention any activity of him, and in free Poland we were also coming out, and we are still coming out of this one-dimensional propiłsudczyk vision of Polish reality as a positive one. Today is the time. also to see these diverse, authentically beautiful achievements of Polish intelligence from this unique generation of insubordinates in which Józef Piłsudski, and Roman Dmowski, and Ignacy Jan Paderewski and many, many others were in this generation. Let's not close this Polish memory to one box Just to make her sound harder when we had so many diamonds. It's worth telling each other about these diamonds. Please accept this resolution. I hope that also, as I said, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when it receives this resolution, will bear witness that this resolution and today rests in good hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u318	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Jan Zarin to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I'm closing the discussion. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u319	The joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of Law July 19th, 8:30 in room 217. The meeting will take place in the event of the adoption of the law at the 40th session of the Sejm and its transfer to the Senate. The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted for the draft resolution on the 25th anniversary of the appeal of the government of Jan Olszewski will be held today immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media of the Communication on the consideration of the proposals submitted to the draft resolution on the Report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2016 and on the draft resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016 will take place tomorrow, 19 July, at 10.30 a.m. in room 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-18-senat-45-4.u320	Thank you, too. I'm gonna schedule a recess by 11:00 tomorrow. Good night. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 54]]
