ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u1	Good morning. I'm reopening the session. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[I can't hear you.]] Dear Senators! I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the election of the Chair of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senate printing No 501 and considering it as point 17. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Cinema and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 493, and the report of the Commission In print No 493 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u2	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media. Mr. Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 24 April. The Commission, after considering the Act at its meeting on 26 April, issued a negative opinion on the Act amending the Act on Cinema and certain other laws. Now, a few words of explanation. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, which is called by some technical law, consists of the fact that the Act on cinematography and other laws amends, deletes the name of the National Philmotheque and introduces a more general provision: the State cultural institution specialising in the protection of national cultural heritage in the field of cinematography. The text itself does not cause any controversy. This law has also been positively assessed by the Legislative Office. At the meeting of the cultural committee, the senators had no comment on the form and shape of the proposed changes. But these changes, even though they are technical, open the way for the merger of two institutions: the National Audiovisual Institute and the National Film Library. What does that mean? This does not mean, as we have heard from the Ministry, the liquidation of these facilities, because it is a combination of them, but the senators at the committee meeting drew attention to certain issues and asked many questions to the ministry. A few months ago we received an announcement from the Ministry of Culture that there will be changes, i.e. that NInA will be connected to the National Film Library, and it has been justified. We had a lot of doubts at the time. These changes were supposed to be in March. The reason for the delay, as the Minister informed us, was that we had to prepare this very short bill, so that we only received it at the moment. The project of combining these institutions aroused various protests in cultural environments. The Senators also had a lot of doubts during the previous sessions as well as the recent debates. What were they about? They were about... We asked, among other things. whether the legal terms of the merger have been prepared or whether the new institution already has a statute, etc. Because if we vote in favour of these amendments, we will open the way for the Minister to join these two institutions. We also asked for opinions. It turns out that this project received a negative opinion from the National Audiovisual Institute Council. Ladies and gentlemen, both of these facilities... the National Film Library has a tradition of decades. In turn, NInA, which has a shorter tradition, is a very modern facility with very modern headquarters, which has been prepared by the great effort of this institution in recent years, has recently been opened and is very popular among the inhabitants of Warsaw, dealing with extremely important audiovisual issues. It is an institution modelled on the French institution. In fact, it deals with new media, all of them, what we are motivated by the development of culture and the development of audiovisual techniques. The fact that completely new techniques, media and e.g. have appeared in the culture. Social media, obliges us to a completely different way of archiving, recording various kinds of major cultural events. As I say, these are two well-deserved facilities. There were also questions, among others. Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka asked such a question about NInA's activities. Unfortunately, in fact, she did not get the answer to this question, so that we had the impression that perhaps the ministry did not fully know the activities of this institution. But perhaps the Minister... The Minister is here, so maybe he can tell you about how this activity has really been in recent years. And it was certainly one of the most modern and dynamic institutions in the culture. Its connection with the National Film Library was justified by the Ministry by the necessity to carry out work in the National Film Library, the necessity to protect the goods which are collected there. However, we know that NInA does not have the technical means to carry out this type of work. If you have any questions, please. As I say, the opinion was definitely negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr Senator, Mr Fedorovich. You're welcome. Then you're Senator Grubski. [[Miss Marshal, can you hear me? I don't have... I'm gonna say this because I didn't take my card...]] No, no, Mr. Senator. Take the card because it's all on tape, so... [[I forgot. I'm sorry.]] You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: It's normal at this age.]] [[I thought you weren't gonna...]] We'll wait. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry for the discomfort. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur because I would like to make this clear. Was the Committee on Culture and Media I am conducting in favour of this amendment, was it against and what was the ratio of votes? I would like to ask for an answer so that the senators, who may not have been from the beginning, will listen to you on this matter. If you don't mind me asking...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u5	Yes, of course. If I say the opinion was negative, that means the senators were against it. And the vote ratio was 6:2. But it can complement why 6:2 and not more, because the committee is much more numerous, I'll say that it's good that the senator reminded me of it. A lot of controversy raised such a rapid deadline for introducing this law to our committee. So that some colleagues, also from the PiS, simply did not come to the committee meeting, despite the notifications, because the notifications went very late, only in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u6	Thank you. Senator Maciej Grubski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, I have two questions. In view of the outcome of the 6:2 vote, I have a request to clarify what were the specific grounds for this vote. And the second question is: what will be the cost of bringing these two institutions together and was this discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u8	Thank you very much. As far as costs are concerned, they were not the subject of the sitting, but the Minister is present, so we can still ask this question. The senators, of course, voted in accordance with their conscience, after discussion. Thus, such a result of the vote is 6:2. During this meeting negative opinions were formulated regarding this merger. The senators spoke, among others. the fact that the merger of these two institutions could result in the loss of the achievements of the two institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, first question... These will be questions about the text, not the point of combining institutions, namely... in the article. 1 in point 2 we repeal Article. The 29th Cinema Act. This article, in turn, tells us how the National Film Library is financed, that it receives a grant for its activities, etc. The question is: if we do not eliminate or transform the film itself, what will the National Film Library be financed from during the transition period? That is, from the date of entry into force of this law until it is eventually liquidated or transformed. Well, it's gotta be financed out of something.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u11	Yes. Thank you so much for that question. However, this matter was not discussed at the committee meeting, but there is a minister present, so that he can answer the question of the honourable senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u12	Thank you very much. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u13	The second question is also related to the text, i.e.... We remove from the legal circulation, from the act the concept of the National Philmotheque, i.e. this own name we replace the descriptive name of the State institution of culture... etc., etc. Okay, but now the question is: where will the collections, which so far, according to the Act on mandatory library copies, be directed to the National Film Library? Because nowhere in this law is there a relatively simple record that for now it is the National Film Library that is the national institution of culture. In short, when you send a messenger with a copy of the film to a state-owned cultural institution specialized in the protection of national cultural heritage in the field of cinematography, what address will you send it to?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u14	Thank you. That's a good question for the Minister, too. This was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. I asked about the statute of the new institution, which will be created: FINA, i.e. the National Film Library of the Audio-visual Institute... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, please be quiet. Gentlemen, gentlemen...]] ...and I have been informed that this statute is only in preparation. So that was one of the reasons why we voted against. It seemed to us that everything was not yet prepared here, and this type of procedure, as we know, is very, very serious.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u15	Thank you, Senator. Anyone else want to ask the senator a question? I don't see any volunteers. Senator, thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Paweł Lewandowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? Please, Minister, I'm inviting you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, please remain silent. Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, I'm awkward to pay attention, but please be quiet, because it bothers me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! When it comes to the reason why the institutions of the National Audiovisual Institute and the National Film Library are merged, it is relatively prosaic. The purpose of the establishment of the National Audiovisual Institute was to archive and digitise and disseminate the objects of film culture, i.e. what has been produced over 100 years of cinematography, everything that has been collected, among others. in the archives of the National Film Library, but most of all... The basic idea, the task of this institute was to digitize and disseminate cultural goods that were produced in the Polish Television. Polish Television has launched its own programme of digitization of cultural goods, films, television programs, everything that was once recorded in the state radio and television organization unit and after 1993 already in the Polish Television. The radio also digitized its archives on its own, and digitized virtually everything and digitizes everything that it creates on an ongoing basis. Therefore, there was no need for these collections, which were in the Polish Television, to be transferred to the national institution, NINA, the National Audiovisual Institute. In this situation, the institution has no other ability to conduct its so-called. Core business, decided to address widely understood cultural activities, which are essentially the statutory action of the National Centre for Culture, another cultural institution run by the Minister of Culture. As a result, she held various meetings, co-organized productions, film co-productions, the Television Theatre, engaged in renting a hall for recordings or theatre tests, organized interesting exhibitions, published a periodical, still published, organized international conferences and actually praised her for it, but that was not the reason for the institution's existence. This institution was set up for PLN 60 million, received an entity grant of at least PLN 12 million per year, sometimes more, because, as I said, it participated in co-productions. For this money it was and is equipped with state-of-the-art digitalisation equipment. The National Audiovisual Institute can digitize 20 films a year. Digitization is not the same process of transferring the tape into a digital form, it is also correction, that is repairing the damage, that is a re-process of post-production. And that's what this institute was called for. The next element of the activity was to be the dissemination of those goods which were digitized there, and, as I said, NInA does not have any material for digitisation. The equipment that was purchased there with this money has so far been used to digitize so-called. private archives, or communes, right, christenings, weddings. Any citizen could have come to NINA, passed on... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: How dare you...]] [[It's unbelievable...]] [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please...]] I didn't interrupt you. [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators...]] I thought the Senate wasn't the Sejm and that there was a way to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u17	Minister, please stop for a moment. Mr and Mrs Senators, you will be able to ask questions to the senator and to the minister, as well as to the Minister's statements in the discussion, and now I ask for silence. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u18	The National Film Library is an institution of culture, which was established already in the 1950s as, let's call it, the central film archive of Polish cinematography and has changed its name many times over the years. At this point, the National Film Library stores a large collection of films, and annually it is able to digitize only 6. One of the objectives of the action of the National Film Library is also the dissemination of these films, i.e. the sharing of these films to the general public. These are the pearls of Polish cinematography, and not only of Polish cinematography, there are many outstanding artists sometimes only in one or two copies. They require immediate, even emergency digitalization. Gentlemen, senators, you probably don't know. I also mentioned this at the committee meeting. The film can only last 140 years, and then it's biodegradable and we lose these works forever. Also during the Second World War and during other storms that took place in Poland, the collections of the National Film Library were severely depleted. The movies have been cut, destroyed, some of them aren't there at all. The process of digitization allows you to complete many elements, allow you to complete postproduction or even do it again. Therefore, the merger of these institutions will result in the two institutions which are in principle unable to perform their functions separately, being able to perform these functions together. It's synergy. In the process of joining these institutions, no one will be fired, all employees will be fired. As far as the statutes are concerned, the statute is appropriate to the institution after its appointment, not before its appointment. There's no one to give this charter right now. As far as the bill is concerned, just as the Senator rapporteur was gracious to say, there are no formal objections to it. Well, there's just a problem with that, at least according to Senators of the Civic Platform, that there's an opening door to the liquidation of the National Audiovisual Institute. I would like to say that the creation and liquidation of institutions is part of the audiovisual policy of the Minister of Culture. Institutions shall be created and disposed of by means of an order. In fact, we could eliminate this institution immediately and the legislative issue would not be a big problem. But we just wanted to sort things out. As we have written in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, this is a technical amendment introduced so that this matter can be settled. This new institution will carry out all activities that have so far been carried out by those institutions separately. This will be a synergy effect because it will be possible to combine modern technology, knowledge and experience of the National Audiovisual Institute and archives, resources and capabilities of the National Film Library. We expect that this will not digitalize 26 films a year, but even 30 films. At the moment, we are also considering a multi-annual programme to promote the digitisation of cultural goods, the most vulnerable and the most valuable ones, and we hope that we can find money for this in the state budget. There was also a question about the costs of this new institution, about the costs of merging these institutions. According to the OSR, it will be several hundred thousand zlotys. In fact, they're ls. Just organizational costs. As regards the financing of institutions during the transitional period, at the beginning of each financial year each institution receives an entity grant. And this grant is granted for a year. We do not assume, by granting a grant, that we will only grant it for six months, so until the merger both institutions will operate on the basis of the budget that was set at the beginning of the year. After that, these budgets will be combined, as will the institutions. I do not see any problem with losing the achievements, because, as I said, no one will eliminate any additional activity of these institutions. There's absolutely no reason for that. If it's a mandatory copy, there's a recipe in our project. It's an art. 3, which states that the Act of 7 November 1996 on compulsory library copies shall be amended as follows: the words "National Philmotheque in Warsaw' shall be replaced by the words "State cultural institution specialising in the protection of national cultural heritage in the field of cinematography' referred to in Article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One... So, of course, we have also anticipated these doubts of the committee. As far as support is concerned, there is no environmental organization, including the Polish Filmmakers Association, all this time... Because I remind you that for at least a year now it is known that these institutions will be combined, but representatives of the film or digital environment have not presented any objection or even an opinion. When it comes to the institute's advice, it's important to remember that the organizational system changes in the institutions to be merged. And I'm not surprised that the council, which is part of this organization, is against it, because it will be resolved automatically. I'm gonna check out the question I haven't answered yet... [[If you don't...]] And as far as funding is concerned, you have doubts about what this institution will be financed from when this is not mentioned in the Film Act. So I'm explaining that it's going to be financed under the Cultural Activity Act, which is the basis for all cultural institutions. I am surprised that statutory exceptions were created in the law-making process for any institution. We have a universal law on the basis of which cultural institutions operate, and I am in favour of the maximum number of cultural institutions acting on the basis of this law, because cultural institutions are nothing but a cultural policy tool for the Minister of Culture. It's basically an organisational issue, whether we call 5, 3 or 2.....it's only up to the minister to which institutions they work, whether they're called new, whether they're being decommissioned, whether they're connected. These are the tools of the minister and the political element of the government. I don't see any reason why this would raise any doubts about the Senate. or Parliament in general. If I haven't answered any questions, then of course I'm open... I may not have written anything down, although I was trying to record all the questions and doubts that had arisen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u19	Thank you, Minister. And the question you ask is Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u20	Thank you very much. I will immediately address the words of the Minister who fell here just now, completely incomprehensible to me. Mr. Minister, I'm afraid I have to say this with regret. You are not aware of the activities of the National Audiovisual Institute. You were unable to answer the question asked by the senator during the committee meeting to describe this activity, and just now, as you said, what the institute does... Well, that's not what he does, sir. I've opened a charter that's in force at NINA right now. What tasks was this facility called for? Listen carefully and kindly to this. The Institute's activities include the dissemination and promotion of culture, science and education, with particular emphasis on audiovisual and audiovisual works, including film. To that end, the institute... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Thank you, senator, for interrupting. To this end, the Institute will, in particular: collect, archive and document audiovisual works; carry out digitisation and reconstruction of audiovisual works; take action to create conditions for universal access to audiovisual works; co-create, produce, record and promote high-level cultural works, carry out publishing activities... [[Senator, question.]] Minister, these are statutory duties. Well, unfortunately, I must recall, Mrs. Marshal, this text, because I see that the Minister has no idea what the national tasks are... [[Mrs. Senator...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: I have an idea and I have this text here.]] Well, here you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...gracefully, Minister... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: I am already referring.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Because you brought in the business... [[Mrs. Senator...]] I'm done asking the question. [[That was an inappropriate remark, because you're talking to the Deputy Minister of Culture who's responsible for preparing this text, so...]] I'm really sorry, but... [[Senator, have you asked a question yet? I am convinced that the Minister knows this text and does not need to read it.]] Okay, but I'd like to... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: I will respond...]] ...to present the tasks of the National Audiovisual Institute in accordance with its statutes and to refer only then to what is the subject of the National Audiovisual Institute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u21	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u22	Senator, as far as the purpose of the National Audiovisual Institute is concerned... [[Voice from the room: Not the purpose, but the task.]] Excuse me? I didn't hear you. [[Voice from the room: This is a discussion...]] As far as the purpose of the establishment of the National Audiovisual Institute is concerned, as I said at the beginning, the purpose of its establishment was to digitise and disseminate cultural resources. Because it turned out that the National Audiovisual Institute had nothing to digitize, because it did not gain access to the archives of the Polish Television, and does not want to digitize the collections of the National Film Library It was necessary to include a justification for the continued functioning of such an institution in the statutes. Therefore, the statute has been expanded so that practically everything can be pressed into it. This institution does basically everything that any other institution can do, apart from digitising cinema, important audiovisual works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u23	Thank you very much. And you ask the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u24	Minister, do the heads of these two institutions have a term of office or not? The ones that... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: They serve as...]] I'll tell you what I mean. I mean, the situation that the Ministry is creating reminds me very much of the situation of 2 museums in Gdansk. World War II Museum and Westerplatte Museum Which were merged to remove the cadence director of the Museum of World War II. I therefore ask for a term of office.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u25	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Of course, they are cadence...]] Minister, I give the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u26	I'm sorry. Of course, they're cadence. But the target that... [[And when do their terms end?]] In a year and a half, I think, about Mr. Merczyński. And as far as Mrs. Rogowska is concerned, it's hard for me to say right now. I don't remember that exactly. But as for Mrs. Rogowska, it seems that... I don't know, actually, maybe I shouldn't say it, but since the Senate is asking, I'll say that Mrs. Rogowska has been offered to become vice-director of the new institution. And he's gonna be the vice principal because, as far as I know, she accepted the offer. And Mr. Merczyński, who opposed the merger of these institutions, of course... Well, since his actions have repeatedly shown that, as we would say, he would like to prevent us from joining these two institutions, we have understood that he is unlikely to cooperate in further running the new institution. Therefore, we did not make him such a proposal to continue his mission in the new institution. But if he shared our view of synergy, I wouldn't see any problem in continuing to cooperate with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u27	Thank you very much. President Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal, please note that I will have five questions. So either I can have a minute for each one, or I can ask them one at a time after every answer. [[Mr. Chairman, why don't you ask 3 now and then, for your marshal and your senator, the rest, okay?]] Okay, I'll adjust. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Sorry, I'll just take a pen.]] You don't need a pen because these questions are short. Tell me, in light of what you've been gracious to say, that there have been recordings of communions and weddings... Tell me, what is ninateka.pl?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u29	Ninateka.pl is a website of Ninateki, where you can watch various digitized works. [[Communion.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: No, no...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u30	And can you tell me now... [[And what are you mistreating this Minister for?]] ...what has Ninateka done so important in recent times? Because you said she did very little. [[From communion...]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: I did not say that Ninateka...]] [[I'm very sorry, but you're going into polemics. I would ask the President to ask three questions that the Minister will answer.]] Okay, well, then... What I'm trying to say is, if there's words that bother us... We're in the Senate, and we really shouldn't interrupt. But since there are words about communions in public circulation, I want the senators to know that in 2015 on the occasion of the 250th anniversary of the public theatre in Poland, the largest works of Polish audiovisual theatre were collected as part of the theatre collection. Over 60 performances of the Television and Radio Theatre have been recorded. And that's what Ninatek does. Maybe that's not a question. I'm just saying, I'm leveling out what we're talking about. Come on. A world-wide pioneering musical online collection containing almost all works by Witold Lutosławski, Krzysztof Penderecki and Mikołaj Górecki, as well as a collection of information about the lives of these 3 composers. So, uh... How does that apply to your statement, Minister, about communion and what it does wrong... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: I already translate...]] [[Are you still...]] There's gonna be one more question. [[Then ask them immediately, Mr President.]] I don't know why you say Mrs. Rogowska will be vice principal. There are rules. The question is this. We, of course, do, and the public also... [[The Minister's co-worker shall provide him with written information.]] Thank you, Mr. Counselor, for being kind enough to give us a hint, but... [[Oh, no. I'm out of here.]] [[Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you a question.]] Tell me, how's the future director case going? Will it be a contest, or will Mr. Merczyński be able to take part in it? Will you appoint someone? Is this person acting Commissioner Veromieczyk? Will there be any rules regarding the appointment of the director of the joint institutions? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: As for...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u31	That was the last question? [[Then I'll ask more questions.]] They're gonna be... Good. Please, Minister. [[I'll wait.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u32	As far as the first question is concerned, it's like a statement about what NInA did, and I'd like to say yes. The purpose of the National Audiovisual Institute is to repeat this once again. In general, it is the digitisation of objects of film or audiovisual culture, which is also about recordings. In turn, it does not require all the tools that the National Audiovisual Institute has to collect. You don't need equipment for 60 million zlotys to collect already digitized things and disseminate them online, so don't compare these two things. However, this equipment, which should be used for the digitisation of cinematography, something that may soon be lost, because we have it in one copy, as I said in the introduction, is often used for the digitisation of personal videotapes, of course on the basis that they pass copyright and theoretically these materials could be used to create a so-called history of private life. So much for that. As regards the appointment of directors, the principles of this appointment are, of course, laid down in the Act and the entire procedure will be carried out by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. [[Excuse me, I have to ask...]] [[Please ask me a question.]] [[But what are the rules? Is this gonna be a contest?]] [[We'll ask the Platform.]] No, it's not gonna be a contest. [[And that's the answer I'm talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u33	Thank you very much. The question you ask is Marshal Maria Panczyk-Podziej. Please, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, explain to me, but really, coffee on the bench, how one institution will perform its statutory duties better than the other two, since, as you said yourself, the same number of people will be employed. Because I don't understand. What is the phenomenon of this? I don't think the name of the institution is gonna make it any easier, it's not gonna make it any easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u35	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u36	In fact, there's a pretty simple answer to that question. Because in the National Audiovisual Institute there are many uninstalled places for digitisation. If the entire team of the National Audiovisual Institute really wanted to digitize works of art, they could do about 6 and 8 works of art a year. On the other hand, the National Film Library has a very large staffing cast, but it has something even more important that the National Audiovisual Institute does not have something to digitize, because it has collections that the National Audiovisual Institute does not have. The National Film Library has collections, has many specialists, but does not have so many positions and so modern equipment for digitization. As I said in the introduction, the National Audiovisual Institute, which was called for digitisation, has equipment and much more posts than people who are able to fill it, while at the same time not engaged in digitization of important cultural goods for Poland, because there is no, does not have these cultural goods. And throughout his entire life, he did not acquire these cultural goods to digitize them, either from television archives or from the archives of the National Film Library. It just wasn't realized. If this were to be carried out, it would probably not be necessary to combine these institutions, absolutely, because there would be clear cooperation on the line of these two institutions, while this cooperation has not been seen for so many years. Apparently, there was some institutional or mental blockade of the management of one institution, which is why one institution needs to be created so that there is no longer a situation where two directors can't agree on whether or not to make the harvest available. There will be a much bigger crew, there will be very experienced people, people who are very experienced when it comes to tapes and classic ways of film correction. These people, who have a great deal of experience, have worked for many decades in the National Film Library and know all the works that are there, are able to categorize what is important for Polish cinematography, which should first be digitized. In turn, the National Audiovisual Institute works a lot of highly qualified young people who, in cooperation with these archivists from the National Film Library, will be able to work together This will be the synergy effect of digitising a great many cultural goods, prioritising them accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u37	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Jan Żaryn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u38	I just have one question. It seems to me that you, Minister, have justified the reason for the real connection between these two institutions in order to improve, in fact, the process to which one of these institutions has been appointed and whose scope of activities has been carried out for various reasons, whether she wanted or could not. For me, it's more interesting what you do in practice. As your words show, NInA occupied, which means that it entered, as I understand it, the competence of other institutes, which are subordinate to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. In particular, I am referring to the National Centre for Culture, which seems to have carried out its duties properly, at least I do not see the signals from the current management to be criticised by the institution because of its competence. I am not saying that everything has always been done perfectly, but when it comes to the scope of competence that the NCK has been granted, it was not somehow tested. And now my question about it. Namely, does this mean that, after the merger of these 2 institutions, this part of the competence which was not quite meaningfully exercised by NInA will be in the competence of the National Centre for Culture and, consequently, it can be predicted that also the financial resources that were in those 2 existing institutions will not be added up in the following years of the activities of one combined institution, only part of the funds will be transferred to the NCK? Can this information from the National Centre of Culture, on our part, be obtained by you, or is this a de facto vision that is worth articulating?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u39	Thank you, Professor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u40	As far as the activity I was talking about as an additional activity of the National Audiovisual Institute is concerned, it is not so that the cultural institution cannot perform other tasks which, for example. performed the National Audiovisual Institute. So that's like, uh... publishing activities in terms of their competence or conducting exhibitions, whether organizing meetings or screening movies, or supporting the Television Theatre, I believe that these are elements that are important for Polish culture and the combined institution should also do them. The problem wasn't that this institution was doing it, it was that it was only doing what it was called for, not what it was called for. Thus, these tasks will probably continue to be carried out by the new institution. And when it comes to funding... This is an institution that is directly under my supervision. My priority is to digitize as many valuable collections as possible. And I hope that this budget will not only add up, but it will be even bigger so that this activity can be carried out. I would like to say that when it comes to digitisation, for example. sound tracks, it is relatively fast and simple. But when it comes to audiovisual works, for example. films, this is a very time-consuming process and at the same time extremely expensive, and the storage of these collections is extremely expensive. And that is why we plan to build in the Ministry of Culture additionally in Łódź a state-of-the-art archive for collections on celluloid tapes or nitro tapes. So I answer. : I do not see the possibility of moving these tasks to the National Cultural Centre... that is to say, prohibit these tasks completely from this new institution, and I certainly do not see the possibility of shifting finance. This institution needs even more money to accomplish its purpose. Because in recent years, and in fact almost never, there has been one big action of mass digitisation of Polish cinematography and the time to just do it so that it doesn't get away with it, because some tapes are already running out, and storing others is just very dangerous. These are flammable explosive tapes, as the name itself indicates: nitro. Everyone is more or less aware of what might be associated with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u41	Thank you very much. And Senator Czesław Ryszka. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, basically Senator Żaryn asked me a question because I meant whether the Act would limit such creative activities of NInA. But the Minister replied that as soon as they had ideas and money, they would be able to continue exactly what they are doing now, even though digitalization takes precedence. So that I actually thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. President Jerzy Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u44	Minister, you have actually said something important for all of us, especially for my environment, i.e. the digitisation of film collections. But remind me, how much is... You said how many NInA films a year can digitize professionally? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: 20.]] Well, I want to tell you that NInA can digitize up to 12 films per year on the best equipment we have in Poland, and it can work on two shifts. In a situation... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: No but...]] You're about to refer to it. Because you don't need to know that, because you're not a professional in this business, you're a man who does transformations. There are thousands of movies. NInA is not supposed to only deal with films, because it mainly deals with audiovisual matters. So how do you imagine that thousands of movies that we'd like to digitize, in a situation where I'm sure I'm right here, you can only do 12 a year. 'Cause I've been doing this a couple of times. And it's working two shifts... And what does the National Culture Center have to do with it, which doesn't have any equipment that they can use? If it does, then please correct me for this are the questions and that is what the Senate is for. For the time being, please answer these questions... [[But do you have any other questions?]] I'm gonna have a lot of questions. [[Then please ask two more questions...]] But those are from another field. But there you go, I can... [[Mr. Chairman, two more exams, please.]] There you go, that's another one. My next question concerns what will happen to the highest standard NInA has, i.e. ISO certificate, which was obtained thanks to the exemplary, world-wide NInA activity, which is the highest rated in Europe. What will happen to it and will it not be a very serious loss for Polish digitization? My next question is: why did NInA, film and PISF projects not receive any support when it comes to digital projects that were assumed because you said it was supposed to be digital Poland, and only TVP and radio received them?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u45	That's it for now? [[That's it for now. I'm gonna have a few more questions.]] Okay, thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u46	As for the question of how much can be digitized by the National Audiovisual Institute, I would say that I, of course, talked to the employees of the National Audiovisual Institute because I was there several times: on three shifts they could digitize 20 and on two 12. As far as the National Centre for Culture is concerned, I was only talking about issues such as exhibitions, demonstrations, etc. I wasn't talking about the core business of this institution, I wasn't talking about digitisation, I was talking about all the additional activities of cultural institutions that can be carried out by many cultural institutions. The Museum conducts exhibitions, the National Centre for Culture can conduct exhibitions, the National Audiovisual Institute can also conduct exhibitions. I'm talking about this type of activity, not digitalization. The National Centre for Culture, as far as I know, does not have a system for digitisation. As far as the certificate is concerned, quality certificates are regularly applied for, every once in a while the relevant certifying authority arrives and renews these certificates, they are not issued once and for all. I am convinced that the merger of the institution will result in all standards that should be met and when the certifying authority arrives, it will assess and maintain the certificate for the new institution. And if they are not fulfilled, I understand that there will be an adjustment and, of course, in the years following the reorganisation process, the institution will meet the conditions of all these certificates. At the same time, I would like to say that the certificate is not a sign of the fact that if this certificate does not exist, then the tasks that will be performed there will immediately be performed worse. The certificate is an international guarantee, it is issued by an international private organisation and these certificates can, of course, be obtained by any institution, depending on the needs and the purpose of the institution concerned. As far as the OPPC issue is concerned, I understand that you're asking the senator why these institutions didn't get the right funding. I am convinced that as soon as these institutions join together, they will meet all the requirements of the Operational Programme and will receive a subsidy for digitalisation. I guess I answered all the questions. I guess I didn't miss anything. If I left it out, then, Mr. Senator, please tell me because I was trying to write it down quickly... And I'd like to answer all your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u47	Good. I have a question, then. There is an opinion and request from the NInA Programme Council, signed by Ms Agnieszka Holland, Mr Müller and Mr Merczyński... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski:...and Mr Miszczak.]] I'm sure you know that. This, of course, is general. However, the environment that I represent in the Senate and in life, believes that this combination is unnecessary and harmful. Yeah, well, you have a different opinion, and the crew that's in charge now has a different one. I understand that, although previously no minister, even though NInA is over 10 years old, did not question the value of this branch. Then what is your attitude toward this handwriting? How can you comment that they don't think this connection is necessary? At the same time, Mr Müller is on the board, who is a personalist, a European and thanks to... I don't really want to agree with you with ISO because, as you know, it's not easy to get an ISO certificate. You've got to really earn it. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: I worked in many companies and it looked different.]] Yeah, I know, I know. I was in the Huta im. Sendermira. So please tell me what your attitude toward the council's writing is, which thinks it's pointless.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u48	I understand I can answer that. Mr. Senator, we consulted the environmental project of combining the National Audiovisual Institute and the National Film Library. As I said, there has been a knowledge for almost a year that these institutions will be joined together. The merger was moved for technical reasons by a few months, and the Council's opinion appeared only 14 days before the planned merger, when all the work is under way. I, of course, respect the Board of the National Audiovisual Institute, respect the people who sit there and respect their opinion, but, as I said earlier, this is the voice only and only institutionally linked to the institution to be connected, and therefore it will be dissolved. That's why I understand that it defends itself against such action. Therefore, while respecting this sentence, we will continue our work. The Council had a great deal of time to comment, possibly enter into polemics and suggest other solutions. Not 14 days before the action, which was already announced a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u49	Minister, you've been kind enough to say that you've been consulting. I, of course, do not question this because there is protocol and you can always see who it was consulted with. I do not have such information that you have consulted or not consulted, but I have received a letter from the Federation of Trade Unions, which is very concerned about the situation. The Federation of Trade Unions was not notified at any stage of the decision to transform the National Film Library. These organizations are going to... Besides, this handwriting has certainly been placed on your hands, so I don't want to quote it in full, but the last sentence, written in fat print, is this: "We demand from the office of P. Minister." and here: attention to carry out an ongoing consultation, preceded by a substantive and legal justification for the transformation of the National Film Library and a clear statement whether and what code changes will affect the employees of this well-deserved institution. It's signed by the chairman. This is a document from which, for me, a mere senator, you did not consult. How are you gonna deal with that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u50	It's the employer's duty, and in this case the employer's responsibility, which is the boss... The responsibility of the person managing the institution shall be to inform all institutions of the activities carried out within the institution, e.g. About the merger. At the same time, I would like to say that the organiser, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, has issued an order which was public, in accordance with the Public Information Act. It was publicly available and known to all interested. As far as labour and code-making matters are concerned, I would like to say that all workers, under the conditions they have now, are moving to the new institution, because this is the result of the act on the organisation of cultural activities and, as I recall, I do not want to lie, with the article. 231 of the Labour Code. So I don't see any threats, problems, group redundancies, or that kind of thing that unionists are afraid of. The workers will be fine, and what's more, I think they'll even benefit from the merger. [[Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz: I am very sorry...)]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u51	Do you have any more questions for the senator? [[I've got three more and I'm done.]] You're welcome. How about all of them? [[There you go. I'm at your disposal, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u52	It's important what you said, because it'll calm the employees down, but I'm just reminding you that this letter came in on March 28th. Then I have another question. There's a proxy working, Mr. Veromie. I know that because there was a committee meeting on this case. Tell me, did you meet with the team, the NInA employees and the National Film Library, to discuss matters related to their future? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Well...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u53	This is the first of three questions. Minister, wait a minute. This is the first of three. Next, please. [[He forgot.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Unless the senator isn't ready yet, we'll give him time. [[He needs to read what they've prepared for him.]] [[You're very...]] There you go, Minister. [[I like to hear a joke...]] [[They're gonna tell him questions. Don't worry.]] [[Answer my question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u54	I'll answer that. Of course, Mr. Veromieczyk has repeatedly been in the institutions to be connected. In view of the fact that the merger process is a process involving a number of activities to be carried out in many different aspects: financial, employee, institutional, statutory, etc., etc., meetings were held with the employees of one and the other institution in which the discussion on doubts was held, questions were asked, Mr Veromieczyk answered. [[I mean, I'd like to...]] I'd just like to add... [[Yes?]] ...that also being in the institution, he individually talked to many employees. He asked them for opinions, for opinions, for problems that could arise in order to avoid any complications being combined.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u55	The next question you ask is Senator Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u56	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to comment earlier and say that I was connecting in Krakow... [[Don't comment, just ask the question.]] Before asking the questions for which I have a minute, I would like to say that in the 1990s I joined 2 institutions in Krakow, the Satyra Theatre, Maszkaron and Ewa Demarczyk Theatre, and I held a meeting with both teams in their entirety, i.e. a general meeting. If Mr. Veromie did this, I'm glad... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Yes, of course.]] ...seeking good patterns. Can't you answer me that question, was it a general meeting with the entire crew or with the individual?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u57	There was a meeting with the whole crew.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u58	Thank you very much. And that's the question I was wondering, Mr. Marshal, whether to ask them. Because we are in a situation where there are very modest resources for culture, even though they are bigger every year. I'd like to know... Because I heard that the case of this transformation was prepared by Mr. Barbasiewicz's attorney-in-law. If this is just unconfirmed information, please convince me, and if it is true, please tell me what costs the State Treasury has incurred by commissioning this firm to prepare some legal solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u59	Of course, as in any case, in which professional knowledge should be used... So that also the Ministry of Culture he often commissioned external expertise. At the moment, I cannot tell you how much these costs were, but I can, of course, answer your question in writing. [[Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal, no further questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u60	Thank you very much. [[You're not going to speak in the discussion either?]] The question is asked by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. [[He'll take it twice.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u61	Mr. Marshal, I wanted to ask you the fate of the employees, but because you... [[In other words, she'll ask the same question.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Quiet, please.]] [[Sound of the bell]] [[It's a big deal.]] Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask... I'll say it again because Senator Rooster is interrupting senators' speeches as usual. [[Voice from the hall: It's Ryszka.]] Excuse me, Senator Richard. Excuse me, Senator Rooster. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! [[A little less emotional.]] I also wanted to ask you about possible dismissals. The Minister said there would be no group redundancies, but... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: There will be no layoffs at all.]] There's not gonna be any layoffs at all? Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Unless...]] [[Please don't stop asking questions. The senator has...]] Well, we heard in general: there will be no layoffs. I'm satisfied it's gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u62	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u63	Like I said, the purpose of the merger was not to reduce employment. We're not planning any layoffs. Of course, there's probably gonna be some single people who, for some reason, want to retire, maybe retire, but this... I don't know anything about it, so we're gonna have to do some work to reduce staff.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u64	Are there other questions? [[There isn't.]] If not, I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to giving a written answer to a question asked by Senator Fedorovich. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of the first registered person, Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It seems to me that the debate in the Committee on Culture and Media as well as the debate in the Senate on the merger of 2 cultural institutions, i.e. the National Film Library with the National Audiovisual Institute, does not need to have such a boiling point, as if some misfortune would fall on the institute. The same was true of the alleged assassination of the World War II Museum, with its connection to the Westerplatte Museum. That's what Marshal Borusewicz asked. Well, so far both institutions work well, even though there's a new director. Combining these two institutions also means... As Minister Lewandowski has repeatedly confirmed here, it is a matter of continuing tasks, not eliminating one of them. Let me remind you that the National Film Library is the older of these two institutions. It has been operating since 1955, although in its history it had different names: Film Archives, Central Film Archives, Filmoteka Polska. Since 1987 it has been operating under the name: National Film Library. During this period, she was involved in the protection of national cultural heritage in the field of cinematography and the dissemination of film culture. It can be added that the National Film Library is a huge institution with several archives: the Chełm archive and the Wałbrzysk archive in Warsaw, the Łąkowa archive in Łódź. It also has a network of studios and local cinemas and, above all, huge collections of film tapes and archives, which are among the largest in Europe. In 2008, the National Film Library began its digital activities in terms of its resources. And that is the key issue in this matter that we are talking about today. It is simply about digitization of these very rich collections of films, which should absolutely be supported by the National Audiovisual Institute, NInA, which, although it is a relatively young institution, was created in 2009 and is perfectly equipped with digital devices. It is also necessary to confirm what the Minister here has said repeatedly in his replies that NInA's primary objective is to digitise, share and promote the Polish audiovisual heritage, which is the mission of this institute. NInA today has one of the most modern digitization equipment. He has a digitisation lab, research and reconstruction labs, but he doesn't have his own resources. It is therefore worth combining an institution that has such equipment with a very important institution for national culture, which has powerful resources, but does not have this equipment. In addition, the two institutions carry out a similar activity, although it should be noted with full recognition that the Institute, in addition to digitising works, also carries out a very important educational and creative activity. Here it was mentioned among others. Ninateka portal, which can be considered an absolute model of how reconstructed, digitized cultural works should be made available. I am thinking, in particular, of creating collections such as the three composers, of which the chairman of the committee was gracious to mention. And I am convinced that all these NInA activities in the new institution will continue. I know that in the environment it has been said for a long time that the combination of these two institutions would be legitimate and meaningful. That is why, a year ago, 15 July 2016, Deputy Prime Minister Gliński made public the intention and reasons for the merger of these national cultural institutions: the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute. The main reason for their merger was the need to ensure greater efficiency in the efforts to secure and make available the national audiovisual heritage, with particular regard to the collections of the National Film Library and the potential of the National Audiovisual Institute's knowledge and technology. Three statutory months have elapsed, the Minister has issued an order on this matter, and on 1 November last year a special representative took the necessary steps to prepare and connect both these cultural institutions and establish a new national cultural institution called It's important. It's also a name that doesn't change. The National Film Archives, the Audiovisual Institute, at a glance, FINA. The acquisition by the National Film Library of the Audiovisual Institute of the property and liabilities and claims of the combined cultural institutions will take place, which was initially accepted with some doubts, once the FINO was entered in the register of cultural institutions kept by the Minister responsible for cultural affairs. And from now on, the activities of FINA will be what both institutions have been doing so far. And now I will mention these objectives: firstly, the collection, cataloguing, preservation and making available of collections and documentation material relating to the national audiovisual heritage; secondly, the co-creation, production, registration and promotion of high-level cultural works for the purpose of their publication in media programmes; thirdly, the production of high-level audiovisual material, relating to cultural, scientific or educational issues, for the purpose of issuing them in media programmes or online or otherwise; and fourthly, the pursuit of educational, scientific, publishing and cultural activities. This has all been explained very clearly here and during the committee meeting, and here, during this discussion. In fact, everyone should know what's going on, but this discussion is all about why and even what right. The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage connects these two institutions. Well, that's the vision the Minister of Culture and National Heritage has. There was no need for a public consultation, although it took place. The case concerns two institutions whose minister is the organizer, and even, you can say, the owner. As Minister Lewandowski said here clearly, it is about synergy of actions, about better results of the activities of both institutions so far. In the debate, there were allegations and questions about the fact that the Ministry is linking both institutions to reduce employment and to appoint a new director. Yeah, why would we reduce our employment if we're just trying to get more materials digitized? If all the employees are so good, why should anyone be fired? Everyone will move on to a new institution. Therefore, in conclusion, I will add that a new institution will soon be created after this law has been passed. And the question of who will direct it is also the power of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. The way this new director will be appointed Senator Fedorowicz asked what committee chairman Senator Fedorowicz was asking about. It is also a matter of authority of the Minister. Let's stay out of his authority and wait and see how it goes. I suggest we give up a certain ethics of suspicion, she's not appropriate in this case. Rather, let us think about this synergy of actions. Because we all want these two institutions to work for the good of national culture. This will be a synergy between the activities of two experienced, well-deserved institutions, whose combined action will have even better effects on national culture. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I submitted an application for adoption without amendment of the Act amending the Act on Cinema with Senator Mark Martynowski. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u66	Thank you. The motion has been made. Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! This combination, the proposal of this merger, kind of reminds me of creating pegeers. Farmers who had a breeding, who had a fruitage, were united into one great organism, because it was supposed to be very good for you. Life has shown a completely different story. But it is not because the Ministry of Culture has come to such conclusions that these two institutions should be merged, I am speaking. I am mainly speaking because the astonishing statements of the Minister at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, confirmed today, devalue the audiovisual institute completely, because the Minister constantly emphasizes and says that the Institute actually did nothing, that he practiced some kind of private digitisation, etc. Well, that's amazing, because, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, no matter when he was appointed and began to serve, had and has full access to the reports submitted by the institutions of the Ministry of Culture. And there is the 2016 NInA report, in which all this report on the activities of this institute, the number, names, contacts, topics, issues that he dealt with is included. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that putting emphasis solely on the problem of digitization of Polish films, i.e. the task to be carried out by the film institute... sorry, not the film institute, only the National Film Library... This is not solely based on the audiovisual institute. The Act, which was established by the audiovisual institute, as Senator Zdrojewska read, defines all the tasks that this institute was required to perform. And you can't ignore the fact that the audiovisual institute has moved on, starting its activities, to carry out its duties. Dear Minister, I would also ask that digitalisation be distinguished from reconstruction, because the pace of work and the way in which reconstruction works look completely different, completely different from only digitalisation itself. I do not want to absorb this few, although the High House, explaining what reconstruction is all about, why it is laborious and why much less films can be reconstructed, but I will refer to this report, in which it is very thoroughly explained how it looks. It seems to me that if I say that in this publication, there is information in this report, which can be read, that the greatest works of Polish cinematography have been reconstructed at the audio-visual institute... Two thousand 76 films were reconstructed. I took it from the official report. Films such as Polanski movies, Wajda movies... I only mention, for example, because the names of outstanding directors and other creators are very much... Like films by Kieślowski, Morgenstern, Hasa, Skolimowski, etc. However, this shows that the audiovisual institute has done a thorough and extensive work. Besides, Please pay attention to this. The audiovisual institute did not only reconstruct the titles it selected, but also reported by formally and officially functioning and working film studios such as Zebra, Tor, Kadr, a number of production institutions. These films were placed free of charge on the Ninateka portal, where everyone can access them. Come on. Thanks to its activities, the audiovisual institute has digitized masterpieces of documentary works, such as Kantor's entire work, such as the last recording with Krzysztof Kieślowski, or even - As a curiosity, it's... I'll take it. Kirk Douglas' visit to film school many years ago; it was a great sensation, it was documented, it is available and it exists. That's the minimum number of things the institute did and does that I do. The most important thing for me in this fundamental activity of the institute, apart from digitization, is cooperation with museums and educational activities. Ladies and gentlemen, in the smallest town, in the smallest housing estate, children in schools have a chance thanks to the work of the audiovisual institute to watch exhibitions or masterpieces of various museums in Poland and not only in Poland. These exhibitions, these museum resources are digitized, described and teachers can teach lessons on this basis. Children, sitting at home in a school bench, can attend many exhibitions in the national museum, in the museum of Cracow, etc. The same thing about education... Everything NInA has prepared for schools, for the purposes of Polish lessons, history lessons, geography lessons, is available, has been handed over by the Ministry of Culture to schools; this is also the activity of this institute. I would still like to say that NInA is a strategic partner of public television, Polish Television, cooperating with the Culture channel, co-production with the television theatres, so that much more performances could be made in this mizeria of television theatres. Together with television, she has developed a number of educational initiatives, e.g. popularize computer courses for seniors or computer courses for children, even that kind of thing. Is the participation e.g. in the Night of Museums, all the museums that led this initiative. I am a little surprised that the Ministry of Culture, which is involved in the merger of these two institutions, is a former employee of NINA, Mr Czuba, who should have made available to people who have not dealt with the Institute and started to take important positions, all information, news, etc. In his own experience, he should pass it on. You didn't speak at all at our committee meeting, even though you were mentioned as a guest accompanying the Minister, so that, from your point of view, from the experience of your work... Didn't you do anything at NInA as Mr. Merczyński's deputy? I can't understand that at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it very clear that my speech is not a matter of Only from the air formal opposition to this merger, although I am personally a great enemy of joining institutions, especially cultural institutions, in piers where people have some problems communicating with each other. Even though the Minister says that all employees have a job provided and will move on to this new institution... There will probably be a group of people who do not have such habits and preparations as e.g. A small NInA team that worked out a lot... see, it's a huge publishing house. These are actions in many areas, this is a lot of cultural topics, our cultural life. It's not just... The problem of digitisation is an important problem, but please remember that it is not NInA's fault that it started digitization at the moment it was established... [[Senator, get to the bottom of this.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. Because, as you all know, only when digitalization came in have new opportunities opened up. Before that, all films made e.g. On the photosensitive tape they were lost to magnetic, and from this magnetic tape after 2, 3 years they had to be lost again because this tape was losing its properties. Only the introduction of digitalization, and it is not so far and distant in Poland, has enabled the creation of many new things. I'm full of concerns about whether this new institution will pass the exam, I'm absolutely not convinced I hope I'm wrong. Whether this combination improves the process of digitization of Polish film masterpieces, accelerates it and increases its scale. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u68	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz has your voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Senate! We are at some next stage of the transformation of an institution which, as it were, suggests that these transformations do not take place for substantive reasons, only for reasons of changes in the position of directors. It bothers me if it's true. And it seems that it is because this institution of NInA has maintained the continuity of its activities over the 12 years. It was previously established under a different name, as a Polish Audiovisual Institute or similar I don't want to twist it. Mr Merczyński developed and led this institution until it reached the highest European level, even worldwide, which I can prove in a moment. Because I hate... I don't want to be literal. So it happened that none of the next ministers Minister Ujazdowski, Minister Sellin, Minister Zdrojewski and later Minister Omilanowska never questioned the value of what NInA is doing as well as management itself. It seems to me that not all senators know what serious achievements NInA has in this area. I'll give it to you in a moment, because of course I'm prepared for it. Well, the environment... The Minister was kind enough to say that there was a consultation. I didn't ask exactly who and when, because it's not a committee of inquiry; words fall, protocol is. Those who have been consulted with the Minister or with the Deputy Prime Minister will answer that they have. That's not the point. From these documents I receive as head of the Senate committee, it does not appear that there has been a consultation, but I will not argue about it. I would like to remind you that the scope of these institutions is completely different. National Film Library in particular ♪ actually, it's just ♪ It deals with the works and heritage of our Polish film and has been established for this purpose, while NInA as the National Audiovisual Institute has a completely different, much wider range of activities. I don't want to go back to this because... Senator Borys-Damianka, who is a professional director and television performer in this field, knows exactly what the objectives of this institution are and this is said here. This institution enters the area of Internet culture, new media, music, theatre and video art, and sets completely new standards. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a period of really very serious global digitalisation. And all of a sudden, this institution, which's doing so well, is connected to another one, and in fact, no program has been prepared yet. Well, unless the Minister gets me out of this thinking and tells me everything's ready. Minister, I am not surprised that Director Merczyński, whom I consider to be one of the best professionals in Poland There aren't many of them. He was opposed to this combination. After all, he is the man who created it, with the help of, as it turns out, Mr. Jarosław Czuby, who was his deputy. You've created a very valuable work. I've visited it many times with the Parliamentary Committee, and for what I've seen, thank you. Well, how would you imagine that? I'm going to destroy my own institution, even though I don't even have a guarantee? It is possible that if you would come and say: Mr Merczyński, we respect you as an outstanding creator, but we want to establish a new institution for savings or other reasons, because this is the project we have, we would also like you to be the head of this institution, so... But it didn't. And don't be surprised... I myself changed institutions in Cracow at a time when it was necessary to do so because of the terrible poverty that existed, and I know that at that time the director of both institutions was really against it. I tried to get them to cooperate, but it didn't work. So don't count on this... However, the absence of a possible competition for such a serious position, requiring such great knowledge, preparation and experience, seems inappropriate to me. And now I want you senators to write things down here... I have such signals that this connection won't help reform the film. Minister, we know, because even you personally said, I understand, in the form of such an answer to the Senator, a professional who asks questions... Well, you can work three shifts and then you'll have these 20 movies, but you can't do that, even machines can't stand it. I mean, I'll tell you, when you find these people, these professionals, it's possible... I want the senators to know what it looks like to get to know the public, the people who are watching us. There's a point by point, a millimeter by millimeter moves, a cripple touches the cripple, there's people there prepared for it. And it takes hours, which is why we are able to produce on machines and with outstanding NInA specialists These people, as you said, will stay and this is good news for 12 movies a year, while several thousand movies are waiting for reconstruction. In her speech, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka told NInA and what this institution had done, so I will not go back to it, but I will remind you of the famous web collection of Lutosławski, Penderecki and Górecki. This is our highest legacy. This was prepared for the year of these artists. Well, Minister, I know you're a management specialist. ISO is indeed a standard that provides different and much higher opportunities for international cooperation. And that was supposed to... I'm afraid it won't be long. I wouldn't advise that. And I don't think it's worth it. - I'm not gonna ignore that certificate. He's very, very clear. And the thing is, if I'm creating an institution, I'd want it to be recognized. She's only recognized because she's called NINA. That name was changed a few years ago. By her activities she is recognized... Right now you're losing what we call it in business, brand. We're losing the brand. And that's my idea of a mistake. Let me remind you that this is no place for a political dispute. We here, in the Senate, are here to correct, point the way or help, through our experience and knowledge, the rulers. Or criticize them. That's what I'm talking But all of this is meant to be only for correction. I remind you that NInA is a member of the World Federation of Audiovisual and Television Archives. And, as I understand it, it's also going to be after the merge. I hope that happens. But I also remind you and inform you that NInA was nominated for the "The Most Innovative Use of Archive" award, the most important industry-wide award. Well, that's probably due to the director who's sitting in the gym, too. Because he was the principal at the time. This award is a very, very serious achievement. If this is not a sufficient argument for NInA to be independent, then what argument should I use? I'm unfortunately... He's been doing movies for 47 years, television. I don't see any way that this connection could help the National Film Library in any way. The National Film Library has completely different tasks, different priorities. And that's why I still feel underneath the skin that this connection is for political or personal reasons. I wish I was wrong because I don't think that's right. There's nothing more I can say about this, except one thing. I'm worried... I remember when Minister Cywińska took power in the new reality and our friend, the late Michael Jagiełło, who had the past of the Jesuit, but also a member of the PZPR, became Deputy Minister of Culture... [[Mr. Senator, get to the bottom of this.]] ...and lasted, Mr. Professor, Mr. Marshal, for four shifts. We didn't change people's positions. [[And that's the conclusion?]] To conclude, I would like to say that, as I read today, Minister Deputy Prime Minister Gliński was gracious to say that the matter of Director Moravian has political reach. I'm talking about the Wrocław theater. And I would be very careful, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, in formulating such sentences when you have the case of Professor Machcewicz, Merczyński, directors whose contracts have not ended, and in some cases they are still ongoing. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, for the drag.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u70	Thank you, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u71	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! Maybe if Senator Fedorovich is done with personal matters, I'll start with them. And I would like to point out that, as we have heard, Director Merczyński is finishing his service at the National Audiovisual Institute. It would be good for us to thank them for their excellent activities, very well rated in the environment. So that I thank you very much from this place, Senator Ryszka, for the good words that have been said here about the activities of the National Audiovisual Institute. But I don't want to be personal, I just want to say, remind you once again, I've already mentioned this from this tribune on other occasions. That the bench of cultural managers is very short. Unfortunately, we regret that. Even some education courses were set up and so on... There are not many outstanding specialists, and I regret to say that the Ministry of Culture has in such a short time disposed of many outstanding specialists who can do things and do it professionally. They can also make huge investments, build, not steal, do everything right, settle the costs to the end, etc. I'm talking about these different directors, very good, excellent people who have created the work of their lives in the institutions we're talking about. And I'd like to believe, but I don't believe that those new people who are coming into these positions right now are coming for something that's done and they're changing... I must say, this cannot be accepted in a culture environment, Minister. I'm sure he won't find her. She'll be reprimanded. And I would like to say something like this: if you want to do a cultural revolution Of course, the term "cultural revolution" is for growth. But if you really want to change what is happening in cultural life in Poland, then have your own ideas, not just take over institutions as personalities and do not destroy the achievements of your predecessors, for many, many years. And the second thing I would like to say, Minister, is that you are wrong about what the National Audiovisual Institute was called for. In the 12 years of the institution's career there were different situations, but the institution's activities, what it is to do, define the statute and that is what we must stick to. And it's not true that NInA was supposed to be involved in digitalization, just like you said. It was one of many tasks. The most important task NInA was to deal with, and this also emphasizes the NInA Statute, is to record artistic events on an ongoing basis. So what I was talking about, in the new media age, in a situation where artistic events are often recorded, it's somewhere on the Internet, then it disappears, and so on. NInA is supposed to protect this content, preserve for the next generations what is happening in the artistic life in Poland at the moment, and what is very important in culture at the moment. And NInA performed excellently with these responsibilities. And this activity that the Minister is talking about... I saw the studio, I was there, I saw it, it's a small studio. You won't do it there, Minister. What should you do? You didn't have to connect these institutions. You should have, and the Ministry should have, launched a multi-annual programme, on the one hand, to finance digitisation, and on the other hand to save these nitro films, etc. And thank you very much for putting your money on those magazines that will be built in Łódź, because it is very necessary, and very well, thank you for that. But, as I say, you had to run a long-term government or ministerial program, give money for it. What do we have right now? I don't know if you're aware, I'm sure that the operating measures were given to TVP and radio, and the motion of the film, NInA and PISF were rejected. And that somehow defines the ministry's policy in this area. So I'm surprised we're talking about mass digitisation. We've got nowhere to go. You can also build such workshops, Dear Minister, in the National Film Library, which is still an older institution, very well deserved. I will only mention here that the Illusion cinema in Warsaw in recent times has been the effort of this institution to rebuild, function fantastically and work. I'll mention movies like this. Mr. Tadeusz or the films with Pola Negri that we could watch in a new glow and show around the world, promote. This is the work of the institutions we're talking about. I said that NInA was, in a sense, created like Ina, a French institution with a budget of EUR 127 million. EUR 127 million is the budget of the institution in France that deals with this. She's been operating since 1974, so she's had more time to do what we haven't been doing for a very long time. It's a good thing we're doing this now. I'd like to ask the Minister one more thing. If you would kindly refer to our comments later, I would ask you to do so, because the issue of support from the European Union came to my mind. NInA and the National Film Library receive funds from European funds, we know that somewhere there it is legally, institutionally established. Isn't changing institutions gonna cause some kind of perturbation, a need for funds or something? That's all I'd like to ask. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't really speak here... I don't think we need to deceive ourselves, all on both sides of the political scene is about the good of Polish culture and these institutions. I'm glad only the principal's gonna change for now. We'll keep an eye on it. We'll see if you'll lose that piece of work. We'll ask you next year at the cultural committee how much you digitized. You promise that the movie's going in there to digitize. Once again, you had to start a studio at the National Film Library, build magazines. This way we would still have these two institutions with a huge history, with huge merits, etc. And finally, I'm going to say, do something new, don't destroy the achievements of other people who have created something really big, important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u72	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Martynowski and Senator Ryszka. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be... [[The Minister won't talk to you?]] Excuse me, the Minister has the right to comment now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I listened to the senators' statements, in which there were quite a number of inaccuracies. Therefore, I would like to address at least some of them. First of all, I would like to point out that the institutions are the institutions of the Minister of Culture, not the Director. I understand that for the last hour and 44 minutes we haven't thought about joining the institution, but about defending the director. I have the impression that if we put the institutions together, and if we put the director, whose weapons you're defending, at the head of this institution, there would be no case at all. As regards the merger issue, you have often referred to the Deputy Director of the National Audiovisual Institute, which is currently the Director-General of the Ministry of Culture. This connection was also made with his recommendations. He was also a member of the Programme and Science Council of the National Film Library, so he understood perfectly that these things could be combined, and in fact he was probably in favour of this idea. About NInA's tasks... Here you have said many times that digitization or film correction, I called it post-production, it's about reconstruction. At the same time, as a model for the National Audiovisual Institute, you are calling on INA, a French institution, which was established solely to digitise and disseminate the resources of radio, television and cinematographies, of course it also had additional activities in the form of educational activities. When it comes to activities that the National Audiovisual Institute attaches to itself in the field of education or... All, well, basically many of these actions or most of these activities were activities carried out in cooperation with the National Film Library. So here it was clear from the beginning that this institution itself cannot run it. When it comes to digitisation, for example. listed tracks, listed recordings, including Lutosławski, it digitized the radio, not the National Audiovisual Institute, he just disseminated it. And as for the digitisation of other works of art to which the National Audiovisual Institute claims rights, it was often done for his money, but it was commissioned outside. This was not done by means of tools that were purchased for PLN 60 million for this institution. And it must be remembered that when we say that digitisation or correction is not the main activity of this institution, it is the question of why most resources, and it is simply the vast majority of resources that have been earmarked for these purposes. After all, the whole building is one big supercomputer for digitisation or correction. Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka said that I was only talking about digitisation, not about reconstruction. Of course I was talking about it. You can check it in the minutes... When I referred to the Professor's questions, I explained, of course, what it was all about. I know what I'm talking about. I was there, I saw it, I talked to the employees, they told me... This knowledge I have, it's... I am not born with this knowledge, I have acquired this knowledge through conversations, also with employees of the National Audiovisual Institute and National Film Library. I was very interested in this topic from the beginning, because I was also involved in digitization at the Republican Foundation, so this is not entirely new to me. These are, like, the main aspects of... I've still got... Oh, I would like to point out at the end that no one is generally questioning the achievements of the National Audiovisual Institute. I didn't say anywhere that what he was doing was wrong or that I thought it was unnecessary. These actions are good, they are needed, but the point is that this was not the main task to which this institute was called. And since we spent so much money building such a huge infrastructure, I'd like this infrastructure to be used. Senator Fedorovich said he's a member of the International Archive Federation... I can't remember exactly what the full name of this is anymore. I just wanted to point out that NInA doesn't actually have any archives. And that's an interesting thing for me, too. As for the famous brand... the National Film Library is a much more famous brand because it's much older. But the new institution will be called quite the same: the National Film Archives, the Audiovisual Institute, or FINA. And I think the international community will recognize this brand very quickly. As far as European projects are concerned, European projects, their funding... Because the senator asked for funding. There will be no loss of funding for these projects, money for these projects, because this is where the sustainability of the project is important, and institutional continuity will be preserved in combination, because there is no liquidation of the institution, but there is a merger. So there is institutional continuity, there is sustainability of projects, they will continue. So much for me, I mean. I think these are the main things I wanted to add here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u74	Thank you, Minister. [[I was summoned, so I have a corrigendum. Can I have...?]] Correct? Yes, please, but from the spot.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u75	Out of the way, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. Corrigendum to the minutes. I understand what the Minister was gracious to say just now, but I will read what it all sounds like: NInA is a member of the World Federation of Audiovisual Archives and Television FIAT/IFTA. This gives the opportunity to draw on best practices and exchange experience in the field of digitisation, archiving, sharing and re-use of audiovisual material among international experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u76	Thank you, Senator. Does the Minister have anything to add? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: No, thank you very much.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the law on the establishment of the Western Cross. The text of the Act is contained in print No 470 and the report of the Commission In print No 470 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of this bill is the Western Cross. You can see it here. That's what he's supposed to look like. [[The senator presents an illustration of the Western Cross]] Let me remind you that this bill came out of our House, the Senate. The aim of this bill is to express gratitude towards the free world, a widely understood Western world, which witnessed solidarity with Poland, with Poles, with our independence efforts in 1939 and 1989. The vastly understood Western world goes back to New Zealand, where the children of wanderers and the United States, Canada, Africa and Western European countries were taken in. And I have to say, as the initiator of this bill, that this project has met with great interest and, in addition, with very constructive kindness. I'm very happy for you. On practically all sides of the widely understood Polish political scene, as well as this even bigger stage, which could be called the widely understood Polish public opinion. And that's proof. also to the fact that we are Poles in favour of conducting the Polish historical policy just in the convention of gratitude. We're here. And we have reason to do so. A grateful nation, not just that someone betrayed us or was not entirely faithful. These are historical truths, statements based on facts, but they do not have to dominate our soul at all. This dominant Polish quality may be different, it may be gratitude. And that was the idea of the project. This project has gone through the whole legislative path, i.e. was passed in the Senate and then passed to the Sejm. There, at the thirty-nineth meeting of the Sejm on 7 April 2017, it was presented as a senate bill and adopted with two substantive amendments. These changes to the baseline project concerned two issues. The first point is to give numbers on successive copies of the Cross. We also discussed this in the Senate. The sentences were divided, but the discussion was as substantive as possible. The Sejm also took up this thread and the majority voted First in committee, and later in plenary, for giving up these numbers, because this may be combined with the concept of prestige, not the aim. The second issue, as regards changes to the Senate version, concerned one of the basic concepts, the terms which are included in the Senate version of the project. That is, the idea was to include organisations as well as those who would be given the Western Cross. The Sejm did not share the same opinion and deleted the organizations, recognising in the course of my work that I participated in this as an active observer of the Senate's legislative process. In any other document, and in particular in the Eastern Cross Act, there is no record of organisations, and therefore this unsymmetricality, this inequality of the record may be questioned. I'm gonna talk about that right now. The effect for us is that the shape in which the bill came back to us after the Seym decisions is the following. The Law on the Western Cross says there should be no numbering on subsequent copies of the cross. He's also talking about crossing out organizations. This is particularly true of the 3 provisions, because this has some effect on the subsequent articles of the Act. The Senate committees have therefore gathered. The members of these 2 committees, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad took a decision at its meeting on 19 April 2017. I would like to say that this is a unanimous decision. As senators, we agree with the Sejm's verdict on the first issue. Indeed, this numbering is not the most appropriate solution here, since it can arouse such associations and interpretations, which we do not want to include in the subject of the transmission of the Western Cross. On the other hand, for strong substantive reasons, the committees decided that it was necessary to bring back, as an amendment, the words "and organisations" into the provisions of the basic law. This has consequences in 3 records, i.e. in the preamble, where it would be unambiguously expressed that this proof of gratitude is addressed both to persons and organisations and consequently in the article. 2 (2) There, after the words "persons of a non-Polish nationality" the words "and foreign organizations" are added and in Article. 4, where the words "or a foreign organisation" are added after the words "decided person." As I say, these records are the consequence of a change in the preamble. The joint committees unanimously decided to refer the draft to the Senate, the High House, with such amendments. I would like to say that, as the initiator of this law, I am asking the House to accept the motion of the joint committees. From the point of view, there is no doubt that this will greatly expand the list of entities to which we will be able to show our gratitude. The basic argument is that the vastly understood Western world, unlike the Soviet state or the Polish lands under occupation during World War II, but border lands... The difference is that on those lands the totalitarian system did not have any kindness towards the existence of any organizations which could be called autonomous, sovereign towards the system. Hence, they cannot be taken into account, and only those who oppose this system can be grateful. The Western world, on the other hand, was guided by a different logic of functioning within the democratic system, and it was the institutions. Social, various other, related e.g. in connection with the trade union movement or the widely understood activities of the universal Church and laymen in the wider Western world, without asking governments or states for opinions, they directed aid to Poland and Poles during various historical periods. So, necessarily, without including organisations in these potential beneficiaries, we would pass on, my task, a very negative signal, and there is no reason for it to be sent. This semi-thankfulness is not a good idea either from a political point of view or because of a category that is much more important than politics, the truth, because it is, of course, the essence of things. We should be grateful to those who deserve it. By castrating the bill, removing the organizations, we de facto misconstrue the concept of gratitude ourselves. Therefore, I ask the High House to accept this, not only as the initiator, but also as representing these two committees, which, as I said, there were clearly no votes against, and no one abstained from voting, decided to support the amendment which was made on the initiative of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. We have accepted this amendment, and in this version we bring this bill to the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u78	Thank you, Senator, for the report. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. The bill's draft... Is there a question? No. The bill was introduced by the Senate. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposal was submitted by Senator Marek Martynowski. I'm saying no one signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on readmission of persons, signed in Warsaw on 22 August 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 473, and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 473 A and 473 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mammothov, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the readmission of persons, signed in Warsaw on 22 August 2016, concerns the Seym Printing Nos 1348 and 1416 and Senate Print Nos 473, 473 A and 473 B. It was a government bill. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration were authorised to present the position of the Government. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the readmission of persons was drawn up in order to establish legal grounds for the admission into its territory of nationals of States Parties residing without authorisation in the territory of the other Party. The issue of cooperation with Kazakhstan in the implementation of readmission has not yet been regulated in binding international agreements between the two parties. The Agreement shall apply to the matters referred to in Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 points 2 and 5 of the Constitution. For these reasons, the method of binding Poland by agreement with prior consent to ratification expressed in the Act is justified. The Sejm adopted the Act at its thirty-nineth meeting on 7 April 2017. The Senate was transferred to the Senate on 11 April 2017. The time limit for its consideration will expire on 11 May 2017. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions was held on 19 April 2017. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u80	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Thomas Grodzki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the subject was held a day later. The discussion concerned minor technical issues, but all doubts were clarified by the legislator. The Commission also requests that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u82	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Are there any such questions? No one's checking in. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jakub Skiba: In the present situation, in relation to the position of the committee, no.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? There's no... [[Voice from the room: There's a senator's question.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes? You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u83	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, the work on this agreement lasted a total of 20 years. Could you explain why it took so long? Because in 1996 the first work began.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u84	You're welcome, Minister, to the podium. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr Jakub Skiba, State Secretary at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u85	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the answer to Senator Czerwinski's question, well, it's actually pretty simple. The point is that it is equal to the intention to conclude such an agreement on both sides, on the Polish side and on the part of Kazakhstan. And so far, that's not the intention. I mean, there were periods when Poland cared more about it, there were periods when Kazakhstan cared more about it. The current government, the Law and Justice, expressed its intention to do so at the beginning of its office and, of course, it met with equal interest from the Kazakh side. At the same time, I must say that the initial party was the Kazakh side. Following the visit of President Nursultan Nazarbayev last year, these negotiations have received an additional impetus and have been effectively completed. So that's the answer. Well, in any such agreement, both parties' intentions are important. We can't always count on a situation like this. It should also be stressed that there are often objective reasons on the Polish side, which are not necessarily due to the merit of the agreement itself, which argue that negotiations should be delayed or delayed in some way. Well, that's just the idea of this international game. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u86	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? If there isn't, I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We now proceed with the joint examination of point 14 and point 15 of the agenda: a second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity; a second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity. I would remind you that these projects have been submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and are contained in prints 482 and 481, and the committee reports In prints No 482 S and No 481 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Alicia Zając, to present the committee's reports on draft opinions, the reports contained in prints No 482 S and No 481 S. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Joint Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union a draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal electricity market COM (2016) 861 Here's the opinion. After considering the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity (recast) (COM (2016) 861), the Senate concludes that this project does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Treaty on European Union. The Senate of the Republic of Poland does not deny the need to seek consensus on establishing common rules for the internal market in electricity at a level higher than regional or national. At the same time, the Senate of the Republic of Poland considers that the proposed solution does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity as regards the Treaty right of Member States to freely shape their energy mix, technological neutrality and the establishment of a sovereign national energy policy. In particular, the allegations of breach of the subsidiarity principle concern: 1. the requirement to carry out a European assessment of capacity adequacy; 2. the introduction of technical requirements for the level of emissions (not more than 550 g CO2/kWh) for manufacturing units which could be covered by the power market; 3. the obligation to participate in cross-border exchanges in national power markets; 4) the establishment and scope of the Regional Operational Centres. The Senate of the Republic of Poland points out that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in art. Paragraph 194. 2 does not allow infringement of the Member State's right to determine the conditions for the use of its energy resources, the choice between different energy sources and the overall structure of its energy supply. In addition, the Senate of the Republic of Poland considers that the proposed regulation falls too far within the competence reserved for Member States in the field of energy security policy, while leaving responsibility for the threat of the system at Member State level, which may result in a reduction in the level of energy security in individual Member States and the EU as a whole. It should therefore be considered that the proposed regulation infringes the principle of subsidiarity. I now refer to the opinion on non-compliance with the subsidiarity principle of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity (recast) COM (2016) 864 The committees at their joint meeting on 25 April also considered this draft opinion. Now I'm going to read that opinion. After considering the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity (recast) (COM (2016) 864), the Senate concludes that the proposal does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Treaty on European Union. The Senate of the Republic of Poland does not deny the need to seek consensus on establishing common rules for the internal market in electricity at a level higher than regional or national. At the same time, the Senate of the Republic of Poland considers that the proposed solution does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity as regards the Treaty right of Member States to freely shape their energy mix. In addition, the Senate of the Republic of Poland considers that the proposed directive falls too far within the competence reserved for Member States in the field of energy security policy, by transferring the competences of regulators and TSOs so far to a transnational level, while leaving responsibility for the threat of the system at Member State level, which may result in a reduction in the level of energy security in individual Member States and across the EU. It should therefore be considered that the proposed regulation infringes the principle of subsidiarity. The joint committees expressed a positive opinion in the case of both opinions by a majority vote. I present to the High Senate both these proposals for acceptance. This is a very important issue because we need to keep an eye on our interests in this matter. It's part of the so-called. the Winter Package as well as the European Union's broad climate and energy policy. The task of the Polish Government And it's our job to support these actions. It is to ensure that the interests of Poland, our energy, all the regulations that we adopt, regarding climate change, the energy package, the Energy Union... It is about making them the most beneficial for our country, because we cannot allow for rapid decarbonisation and we cannot allow other contested regulations and directives. As far as the regulation is concerned, we have allies, as several countries have also decided to express an opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, among other things. both chambers of the German Parliament, as well as the Hungarian Parliament and other parliaments. I think that if the senators are interested in details, using the Minister's presence Hello, Minister. In the committee meeting, which has presented all these threats very widely, questions can be asked. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u88	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Alicia the Hare to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a joint discussion... [[I'm still a representative of the government.]] Yes. I'm sorry. Does the government representative wish to speak on the draft opinions submitted? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: If there are no questions, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Are there any questions for a government representative? [[I have one question.]] Senator Szymanski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you one question. Namely, as the Minister explains, that, on many occasions in various matters, not only in this matter, the European Union does not act in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, with the principle of subsidiarity, although he declares that this is one of the fundamental principles which lies at the heart of the European Union? How can we explain such contradiction that we must adopt appropriate resolutions and defend the principle of subsidiarity, although the Union declares that this principle is very important to it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u90	Minister... [[Senator Czerwinski still has...]] Yes. I'm sorry. There'll be a second question. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! These 4 points on specific risks that could arise when the European Union implements this regulation are very interesting in its opinion. Could you simply explain to the Minister what the risks are, what the European Union is simply trying to force from us when it comes to these issues relating to the regulation? Explain these four points, but that's pretty affordable.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u92	Thank you. Are there any more questions? If you don't, I'll invite the Minister to the podium. The answer is given by Mr Andrzej Piotrowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Thank you so much for these questions. First question: why? Unfortunately, it is not up to the government to say why something is happening that is not correct. It seems to me that there are doctrines at the heart of certain phenomena that we are currently observing. Doctrines that are political doctrines, not doctrines based on, let's call it, engineering knowledge. We are currently observing that to the so-called. Climate policy is added to the demands which in many cases are essentially unrealizable and technically unrealised. The Union's climate policy has been under way for several years and results are far worse than expectations. Please note that the European Union as a whole is still the third place in the world in terms of pollution generation. In the meantime, countries like Germany have spent huge amounts of money on changing this situation. But the result does not necessarily correspond to ambition. In such a situation, nervousness begins and the search begins for methods that allow for even more rapid implementation of a policy which, in the assessment of an increasing number of countries in various passages, is not adapted in terms of, so to speak, cause and effect to achieve the objectives which have been set here. Therefore, you may be tempted to reflect more deeply. After this, not another decision by the British, which we have adopted with some kind of sadness, because they exclude themselves from the group in which we are in, the European Union has not analysed why this happened, but said: "We should unite even more." These proposals, which have now emerged in this whole winter package, are just proposals aimed at centralising different solutions. However, I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the European Union there were some very important observations that problems are best and best solved at source. Therefore, if something doesn't work, let's centralize a little bit of the economic system of the previous political system, namely the central-controlled economy, which turned out to be a complete failure and left in the memory of many people shelves covered only with vinegar bottles, which we know The food is not directly used, but is used to improve the taste qualities, possibly... Well, I'm not gonna get into the kitchen. It's not my specialty. [[He's a conservationist.]] Yeah, the conservant. I'm sorry that my answer isn't an in-depth analysis. A number of think-tanks will probably try to formulate an answer to such a question. I think so. The problem is getting clearer. Perhaps the problem is this, not another structure in the Union, in which I remind you that the Commission is not a body... The Commission's leaders shall not be elected. So if we're dealing with democracy, with all its advantages and disadvantages... So far, no better system has been invented. However, Commissioners do not come from public choice, and therefore they have some kind of policy to which governments have a mandate as a result of consensus, so it is not quite clear who is responsible for certain policy-makers. This unfortunately partly translates into the European Parliament, which is again the result of the selection of a very large group of people from countries with very different characteristics and different points of view. In this context, there is often a victory for such views, which are radical on the one hand, and on the other hand, No, you have to face the truth. They're populist because they let you swim with the wave. We want a clean environment. Yes, of course, we all do. And a method is chosen that has no special relationship and worse. As in the case of RES, it is placed on the target rather than on the tools that enable it to achieve something. From now on, we have a disorder. I would like to say that we are, in part, those particular elements which violate the principle of subsidiarity, which have already been discussed several times in the legislative process, but maybe it is worth recalling this once again. First of all, I ask you to assess the adequacy of capacity at European level. It's something that's such a test... We could say that we are assessing at national level whether everyone has fresh bread tonight. Because of my age I remember a minister from the government just during a socialist period, famous for promising Poles after every raise warm buns, as if the government were actually going to do it. Since the government stopped dealing with hot buns, ladies and gentlemen, in every store we can easily buy bread, which is also fresh. Therefore, problem solving at central level makes sense in a limited number of cases and it is necessary to understand them very well, their mechanism of action to know that this is the right approach. The attempt to assess the adequacy of power in an environment that is not economically uniform is not socially uniform, it is not mentally uniform, it is an attempt to think about another perpetuum mobile. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to approach the assessment of the power that we are trying to value, which will not be delivered as a result of some crisis, and this is what we would follow, we would naturally preserve and even strengthen economic disparities. Why? Putting this into the situation of our country and our neighbor, I'll say yes. We are for different reasons. It is not the time today to assess why the poorer, and therefore the energy not supplied to us will cause less damage. So if Maybe I'll use the numbers. Someone is an employee in Szczecin and earns, say, PLN 3 000, it is likely that a similar employee 100 km away, in Berlin, earns EUR 3 000, or 4 times more. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the cost of lost energy. If this person does not work in Poland, we will lose several thousand zlotys, and if this person does not work in Germany, we will lose several thousand euros. Today the Polish government, within the limits of our economic capabilities, is looking for solutions so that we know that we have done everything possible to ensure that the electricity needed for work, for life, is available to citizens. On the other hand, in the model proposed by the Union, we as Poland can do everything we can and what we can do, but it will still turn out that a dry assessment of where there is a greater cost of not supplying energy has prevaild. That is why the subsidiarity principle has been violated here. We cannot remain in a situation where we do not have the chance to solve the problem. As a country with difficulty, due to economic costs, we are dealing with solving this type of problem nationally. There are regions that might get hurt, but we're the ones who make the decision if there's a disaster of this kind, where, let me say, it would be easier to cause a temporary loss of that energy. If we introduce a situation of this kind between countries, then we will lead unnecessarily to conflicts that are not there today. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that observations of conflicts with the Basques, with the Irish... Ladies and gentlemen, the root cause of most of these conflicts was economic, and it was because these nationalities, communities, were in a situation where solving these problems was not up to them. If we are to preserve and strengthen this in Europe, then we are really going to act against the idea that the European Union was founded against solidarity, the idea that we are best able to solve problems together and help each other, and not to exploit each other. 'Cause it's called taking. This goal, this concept has somehow been lost. Ladies and gentlemen, second thing. CO2 emissions. This is again the result of doctrine. Ladies and gentlemen, can we say responsibly that carbon dioxide emitted from gas combustion is a different carbon dioxide than carbon dioxide? No, it's the same chemical, and the difference is quantity. Therefore, we should not talk about decarbonisation, but about reducing emissions. Right? And this is another example of the fact that at the same time there appear passwords with a purely ideological basis, such as this decarbonization. Ladies and gentlemen, there's an embarrassing element in this password. A protein is built on coal, and a protein is all that lives on earth. Therefore, as we speak about decarbonisation, we are talking very closely about eliminating life on earth, which, I assume, is not the intention of the inventors. But the password is catchy. Right? But as we understand it literally, we come to some kind of absurdity. Ladies and gentlemen, we care very much in Poland... We are fully aware that we have too much dust in the air, and this costs citizens' health and lives. And we want to eliminate it, we want to eliminate it with methods that are economically achievable and effective, but not with doctrines. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the energy sector not only in Poland has gone a very special way... Today, when it comes to pollution, energy costs less than 10%. the pollution generated, and it really was a dozen or so, almost a few decades ago it was a completely different proportion. So we've done a lot here, and let me remind you, the basis of our energy today is the burning of brown coal and hard coal all the time. And we've done so much. Yes? There is therefore a question. So, what, we're gonna eliminate the coal completely? In the case of Poland, the elimination of coal means dependence on gas. Besides, the same is true of Germany. The difference in the assessment of the situation results from the fact that Germany is a little further away and is separated from the source of potential threat from the country that provides this gas, which does not always work, I would say, in a predictable, rational way and we are very afraid that at some point even such fundamental barriers may be exceeded. That's our concern. Unfortunately, not entirely shared by politicians or officials in other countries who did not survive what the Poles had experienced. Ladies and gentlemen, the obligation to participate in cross-border exchanges in national power markets. This is another kind of paradox of thinking. Electricity, so it can be transmitted, requires transmission lines. These transmission lines, first of all, are a nuisance for citizens. We see this after the protests, and we are fully aware that somewhere this present infrastructure has reached the threshold of endurance of people. Not only in Poland, the same in Germany or other countries, people protest. They don't want to have more objects that disappoint the landscape, which maybe sometimes... it's an overly unjustified approach with physics, but people have the right to what they don't understand, fear and say: well, it's as it is, we've agreed to it, but don't put us on a high-voltage line in our environment because we don't want to. If that is the will of the citizens, we can discuss, convince, but we cannot force them. Ladies and gentlemen, the concept of cross-border energy exchange is a concept. development of transmission networks. In fact, it is not entirely known for what purpose, because if we look at the safety of a country as big as Poland, then if it were with us The energy system collapsed, small countries like Czech Republic, Slovakia or even Hungary would have to devote all its power to helping Poland. Well, that's unreal. So we're really talking about a percentage here. Yes? But if so, it is a question of whether we are talking about complementary action. Well, it's working for today. In fact, if we're a little short, we're picking ourselves from abroad on market terms, if they're short, we're picking, if we've got an excess... And that's what happened. in January, when there was a very large generation from wind sources, at first we had a big problem, and then it turned out that the Swiss had the opposite, they didn't anticipate certain problems during the modernisation of their sources of production and they willingly took electricity from us and by individual countries Look how far it's been, but thanks to the fact that it wasn't, as it's said, the amounts reaching the foundations... Therefore, of course, the connections do. Synchronize between networks, yes. But not forcefully, not as a doctrine, but in accordance with the natural technical need for such cooperation. And, ladies and gentlemen, the thing I've basically said in part, because it connects with the first point, the regional operating centers. So, ladies and gentlemen, handing over the brain to the management of the network that we have here is the National Power Disposition, at the disposal of people who look at some part of Europe as a whole and make decisions based on indicators that may be harmful to us... They impose, as if, requirements that may be difficult for us to accept. This concerns both regulatory activities in terms of technical regulation and regulatory concepts. At the moment, our regulators are the Energy Regulatory Office and are independent bodies and in a sense supervise the proper functioning of the energy business by monitoring prices, accepting prices, but also controlling the quality of services. And this quality of service is related e.g. with availability. Such decisions are coordinated within the European Union. Of course, individual regulators are, at least in the legal and economic sense, associated in a joint organisation, exchanging opinions and sometimes even reacting. The fact is that as a result of the situation that took place in the past years, when a large generation of RES, mainly from German wind turbines, was delivered to southern Germany by Poland, we were clogged with a network, which did not allow us to solve some of our problems. Well, despite the almost uniform position of all EU regulators with the exception of Germany and Austria, we have not gained enough power to change Germany's approach, although it is evolving in small steps. The Germans realized that it was impossible to drive for free and that they had to expand their own network or change their concept. They now have an idea that seems very difficult to implement economically. Because they want to bury high power transmission lines and high voltages underground. Well, it's a very interesting project. Is it feasible? And how much is that gonna cost? It is not known, but it is the cost of continuing the policy of RES, only that many citizens do not associate that it is really the cost resulting from the policy of RES. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these are the kind of decisions that Germany can make autonomously. Their society, their economy, their money. However, if such decisions are shifted to a central level, it must cause controversy. And one last comment, ladies and gentlemen. By adopting Energiewende's policy, Germany has led to the loss of around 40,000 jobs in the classic energy sector. In the renewable energy sector and in all sectors of service, some 350 000 jobs have been created. So they came to the idea that this was a great direction, but that they did not notice that these were temporary jobs. The renewable energy market is basically satisfied and these jobs... Well, for example. The Chinese showed up in photovoltaics with the offer of low-cost silicon modules and in the same segment over a period of two to three years employment fell by several dozen percent. Thus, it can be expected that part of the EU policy is due to the pressure of Germany, which would be most likely to use these jobs to promote its approach in other EU countries. Well, one of the problems outlined by the Germans is that the actions that our Parliament is undertaking, for example. in relation to the RES sector... I mean the famous bill, in quotes called the distance bill, which stopped some kind of chaotic development of this sector, which long exceeded the indicators established, nomen omen, by previous governments... And as a result, it was in a very unfortunate economic situation for this sector. And it turns out that this is the result of the bankruptcy of companies in Germany. The appeal that was addressed to us sounded like this: what you're doing, it was going so well with you, and now something has changed and the companies are going bankrupt. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are not able to be the cure for conceptual errors in neighbouring countries. Of course, within the limits of solidarity, where we can help, not creating a situation that our citizens cannot afford, we want to help other countries, but not forcefully, not in such a way that it is forced on us beyond the limits of our economic capabilities, payment possibilities. It's supposed to be a bit of a game for that, too. I hope that I have shown you a certain background with this quite long statement. [[You've answered all the questions that have yet to be asked.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u94	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. And Senator Wiesław... Minister, I'm sorry, but you're still Senator Wiesław Dobkowski and Senator Slugocki. Please, Senator Dobkowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u95	Thank you very much. Minister, you were talking about reducing CO2 emissions, not decarbonisation. This name is spread out in the media and probably in all these EU treaties at all. The name "decarbonisation" really kills us right away, because it is known that in Poland we have energy based on coal and brown coal. We fear that we will become completely dependent on the loss of energy sovereignty as a result of all of this. So that I thank you for having such an attitude, such a pro-Polish approach. I've got that kind of attention... It is also important to promote in the European Union at all, to show that we have been very low in CO2 emissions since 1991 in different ways. And at the moment, there are many other possibilities to do that, for example. by building new, efficient energy blocks or modernising old ones. We still have a lot of outdated, say, power plants, power blocks, mainly based on hard coal, because they're old. Which have an efficiency of approximately 25% or 30%, so within these limits. In turn new blocks, built new blocks, such as in Bełchatów, where I come from, where I live... That's where the newest block has, like, 45% efficiency. And now in Opole, these high-performance blocks are built. The point is that by doing so, not only will it prevent itself... it means not only that CO2 emissions will decrease, but also we're just saving coal, because we're going to burn almost twice as much coal to achieve the same effect. It's also worth... [[And the question, Mr. Senator? Maybe a question, okay?]] Good. It is also worth to bet on heat and heat at all. The efficiency of the heat plant is even higher, because it is, let's say... well, a low-performance pair is used as heat. Minister, what do you think? Is it such a trend that old energy blocks, which are basically almost pensioners, whose lifetime is already ending, replace just new blocks with higher efficiency and to show, also in Europe, that we have such a way of reducing CO2? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u96	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Sługocki and Senator Pekkis. You're welcome, Senator Waldemar Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm a little surprised at the way you put it. As joint committees, we have raised our hands in favour of this opinion, which was kind to introduce Senator Alice the Hare. We held a rather good, substantive discussion in my opinion at the committee meeting. The government was represented by Minister Kurtyka, who, in my opinion, gave very accurate and important answers. However, your statement, Minister, is fundamentally depreciating the Community acquis in this area and not only because you reach even the foundations of European integration, undermining its legitimacy, which I personally cannot agree to. My question is concrete, Minister. I would not want us to focus only on these four threads in the context of this discussion today. They're key and Like I said. We agreed that this is not in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. But we must be aware that the energy market in European integration will integrate, whether we like it or not. So, Minister, let us not concentrate our efforts merely on contesting what the European Union is proposing, focusing them on this, but not only, but at the same time taking action to diversify the energy market in Poland. Therefore, my question is this. Minister, will the government even make efforts to generate energy from an atom? Whether you conduct such works in the Ministry and for example. This concept has a chance to be finalized? I am aware that today the energy market in Poland is based on hard coal and perhaps much less, but also on brown coal, because we know very well that we also have serious deposits of brown coal. Do we also think, knowing that these sources are finished, long-term, and we are trying to diversify the energy market? And it is not necessary, Minister, to say this with concern, to disgust European integration in order to talk about the energy market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u98	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u99	I believe that the Minister, the honourable Minister... [[You can't hear the senator. Do you have a card?]] Now. Thank you, Minister, for a very professional and consistent approach to the subject. All you've shown here is that you're familiar with it. Here's my question. Do I ask the European Union about the information you have in the future allowing you to buy large amounts of energy from outside the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u100	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet in the courtroom. Please, Minister, answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, let me start by asking Senator Dobkowski. In fact, our goal is to modernise and restore the power that is subject to ageing, consumption. We must be aware that the introduction of RES energy from non-sterile sources accelerates the process of technical ageing, because carbon blocks are ignited and extinguished. It's like you guys got in touch and started turning it on, shutting it off, etc. After a while, it would turn out that the light bulb or fluorescent light bulb was much faster in consumption and broke down. These are so-called. fast-shifting processes, and these devices were not designed for this. Therefore, we are fully aware that there is quite a considerable modernisation and investment effort ahead of us. Hence, it is so painful to think that a mechanism capable of financing these investments and modernisations has been subject to such a rule in the project that it cannot finance sources of production whose emissions exceed 550 g CO2. Therefore, this is the case. If this were to happen, it would mean that apart from the fact that we might be able to fight some kind of derogation, we might be able to get some extra time, in fact, from a certain point of time coal is out at all. We have a plan right now, on very thick numbers. I didn't take it with me today because it's a little different. In any case, over the coming years we must de facto produce about 10 GW of such stable, controllable power. And we need to do that by building new power sources, although some of these needs can be met by modernising the existing ones. Such modernization is sometimes impossible and new blocks will have to be placed in place of the old ones, but some of them are in such a good condition that after the addition of desulfurization and denitrification systems or subsequent filters they will meet these standards. We also have a second problem. We have, ladies and gentlemen, a situation such as that. in Bełchatów, which is one of the main sources of power, the exploited deposits will end over the next half of the decade. There's another deposit nearby in Złoczew, but it's about 50 km away. This is a very large technical and economic dilemma, and we need to think very carefully about how, in the case of lignite, it is becoming increasingly difficult to meet these tightened standards... The original source of carbon advantage was that it was a cheaper source of energy, but the situation is rapidly moving in such a direction that it will soon be the other way around. We need to find a coherent policy on this little unidentified situation right now, because some of the requested prices for CO2 emissions... Well, these are the demands. Whether these standards will actually be as sharp as some expect, we do not know, and that depends on whether we can maintain the cost-effectiveness of this way of generating energy. We may have to say that this path has been closed at European level, the European Union. ♪ And from here ♪ I'm sorry I'm so jumping over other things. This particular role of nuclear energy in our plans. If we look at two blocks of power, let's say 1 GW, one based on modern carbon technology, emitting, let's say, 700 "Built in nuclear energy, we will see that nuclear energy by definition is zero-emission. So the average of these two components of power is that we are definitely below what the Union wants when it comes to creating new solutions. If we could change the narrative of the Union and suggest that our modernisation does not take place on the basis of limits for individual blocks, but the whole result achieved... And let me remind you that this is not thinking different from what happened at the beginning of this CO2 instrument. Well, it could be compensated between continents by the method of trading emission certificates. Right? So here there is no reason to not create a much less strange mechanism, namely the national balancing of power. In this situation, although investment in nuclear energy is more expensive today than coal investments, we are looking for solutions... Because it was the previous government that started it. Well, maybe we shouldn't play with historical considerations today, who did when he announced, but the nuclear programme created the previous government. We are trying to modify this program so that it is economically and technically feasible. We found that there are three challenges that we need to face. The costs of nuclear energy are, of course, related to technology. We're looking for one that's efficient, but also cost-effective. The second element is the cost of money. This is such a long-term investment that fractions of a percentage point can translate into thick differences in the production price of a given source. And the third element, which is very important, is the cost of delays. And, ladies and gentlemen, in Europe, we have such a situation that, in principle, most of the investments that have been made are delayed. We're trying to diagnose this problem. I was, among others. In Korea, I've been analyzing how they're doing. They are currently building 5 blocks for the United Arab Emirates and all of this is done on time, in addition to the prices which, compared to what has so far appeared in the public sphere as information about the costs of nuclear energy, are significantly lower. Let's say that such a conversion of megawatts for some between 13 and 14 billion PLN... This is much more expensive than coal, but it is much less than said. So, yes, we're taking nuclear power very seriously right now, and we think she might be the part that's gonna let us keep... Let us be aware that we are talking about an energy system whose power for today The often used one, I'm not talking about a total of about 30 GW. Creating such power e.g. only nuclear is not possible in a short period of time. We need to start by building individual blocks that usually have power between 1 and 2 GW. So this case simply requires a step-by-step planning. I'm gonna go back to the heat plant thing for a second. Ladies and gentlemen, this cogeneration is a method of approach from the other side. Central energy, large powers, large disposition, and distributed energy... And here we see renewable sources, but in the cluster system, i.e. local power balancing, and at a slightly higher level we see the heat and heat plants, both those powered e.g. Biomass, as well as heat and heat conventional, the advantage of which is that there is cogeneration and perhaps even trigeneration. It is simply the same amount of material used for electricity and heat, which results in efficiency that would be unattainable in electricity. The energy produced in cogeneration is up to 80%, and this is done without the crazy complexity that we use in this large energy industry to reach forty-several percent, let's say 46 in these newest blocks. So this direction is very important, but you just have to remember One thing. The economies of scale are also important all the time. So building a very large block In Ostrołęka it was planned for 1,000 MW It's cheaper than building, say, 50 megawatt or 100 megawatt power plants. Why? It's because of the economies of scale. We need to figure it out, pick it up and make it into something called a mix. So it's not something that's either or it's just another component of a whole solution to the problem. Now note what Senator Slugocki said. The question that was raised here was actually not entirely related to the merits of your decision. That's why I said what I said, let's call it, I said that this is not a government position, it's a kind of deeper reflection. And the question was why this is happening. I did not question the essence of European integration. This decision was made by the Polish people a sufficient number of years ago and we are moving in this direction. However, we are trying to ensure that the European Union is a country that...sorry, not a country, but a community which respects the principles underlying this integration. What we're criticizing is going away from these rules. This is not about moving away from the concept of integration. Integration should be understood as the integration of positive things, not the limitation of e.g. sovereign decisions of individual countries, especially where such sovereign decisions make the most sense. This is the principle of subsidiarity, the solution to the problem at the heart. This is not against integration, it was at the heart of the creation of the European Union. So, Mr. Senator, I have the impression that you've wrongly criticized me. Because if there's a political discrepancy between us, it's not in this area and it's not related to my speech. And one last thing. Senator Pekkis asked if the EU allowed large purchases of energy from outside the European Union. Well, that's a good question. The European Union assumes that the market mechanism should be the mechanism underlying all regulations. But translating this regulation into practice leaves a lot of doubts. We are talking about the RES market, while it is not really a market, it is a subsidy instrument. We are talking about the power market, even though it is not a market, it is a subsidy instrument, caused by subsidies that were for RES. But we're still talking about the market. We are talking about the common European market, while the part of this market is that we may, according to some of the concepts, be forced to buy power from someone who is at a completely different end of Europe, and that someone does not have to ensure that this energy comes to us. Well, it seems like a tax instrument for other generation capacities, not to solve our problem. What does that have to do with the market? Well, the market is based on the classic principle of demand and supply, and here it is violated. And right now, if we're looking at the neighboring countries, we have a kind of dilemma. These countries do not need to respect the various restrictions which the Union has adopted on its own manufacturers. So, for example, when buying energy from Russia, we need to be aware that it is produced in conventional power plants, often from their coal, which is used in a place where... Again, these are not confirmed reports, so I would ask you not to treat them. As a fact, as something certain, but there are press reports that people are being exploited there. They are prisoners, criminals, which does not change the fact that creating inhuman conditions does not meet European standards. But Russia is not under this kind of control, especially in remote mines in Siberia. And we're not able to determine that in a definitive manner. Similarly, in countries which do not govern such an internal market, clear regulation is not based on a democratic structure of power, administrative prices can be applied. We see this in the case of gas, and we fear that we can also see in the case of electricity supply, that energy that would flow, for example. from the Royale, from the nuclear power plant built there, may be below the cost of manufacturing. Why? To force a few power plants to shut down, a few of our producers in our market. And once they turn themselves off, it can be very difficult for them to go back to the market. This kind of practice is called dumping. It is unacceptable and should not be tolerated by the European Union. Well, the key to understanding this problem is that it should not be formulated. Nord Stream I shouldn't be created either, because there was no technical need to create such a gas delivery path. And talking about Nord Stream II seems even more surreal around here. He shouldn't have risen, which doesn't mean he didn't. I hope I didn't miss out on anything that might be important. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u102	Thank you, Minister. Senator Antoni Szymanski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u103	Mr. Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, we have gone very far from 14th and 15th. We're talking very widely. And very interestingly, because the Minister presents a great deal of knowledge about energy in general and the systems that should be applied here. However, I would like to return to the substance of the matter, namely the subsidiarity principle, and to hear the reply, very briefly, whether the Minister supports the recast projects in this respect, as regards points 14 and 15: the opinion on the non-subsidiarity principle of the draft directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity, etc., because this is the main subject of our deliberations. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: The request was...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u104	Thank you, Senator, for this reminder. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u105	I'm sorry I got away like this. [[The Senate's opinion...]] There was a request for a brief answer. The answer is yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u106	I understand you're in favour of the motion... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: About the adoption of...]] ...opinion of non-compliance, right? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Yes.]] I see. 'Cause just so we're clear. Senator Józef Zając asks a question. [[You can't turn on the microphone.]] [[The card needs to be put on.]] [[You'll hear it. Oh, look...]] No, Mr. Senator, because it has to be recorded. How about this: Senator Andrzej Stanisławek will ask the question, and Senator Zając will organise himself at that time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Indeed, Minister, we are using your stay here to a large extent. I have two questions, they partly concern this project, but these issues can help us negotiate, show us our goodwill and investigate the expectations of this directive. The first question is: doesn't the Minister think that we should legally prohibit the sale of coal of inferior quality throughout the country to individuals and sell only coal of the first species? And second question. Shouldn't we legally prohibit the sale of boilers other than fifth generation boilers? This would, in the context of this directive, improve both the performance of low-carbon and the efficiency of domestic boilers. That's the second question. Another question about cogeneration. This is also the border of this directive. Carbon-based cogeneration is expensive. The investment cycle is long, the turbines are expensive. In view of the additional supply of LNG gas planned by the government, as well as the construction of a gas connection with Norway and additional connections in the south of Poland... Shouldn't there be a project in relation to additional amounts of gas that, for example, However, the part of district heating, small urban heating, is produced on the basis of gas, what would be cheaper in terms of both CO2 trade and investment cycle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u108	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u109	Thank you very much. I'll start by banning the sale of coal of inferior quality. In fact, in the framework of the government, we had a discussion, because the point is that the main problem in the area of so-called. low emissions, contrary to popular opinion, is not burning coal, but unfortunately, burning anything that is within the reach of the residents of single-family homes: it is garbage, it is plastic, it is some paper, it is anything that falls into their hands. Why? Well, it's the cheapest source. And that's the reason we're in the air. Sorry about the ambiguity. The Mendeleev board. Therefore, such a ban on the one hand would have to be created in such a way as not to eliminate e.g. the possibility of burning mules or had in professional power plants, where... [[Individuals.]] ...this process is under control... At this point, we would have to determine exactly where and where it must not be burned in individual heating. We have no doubt about family homes. But if a boiler works in favour of the block, it should not get dirty, and here we do not necessarily have the possibility of such control as in the case of professional energy units. Therefore, I would say this: at this stage of our ability, we have established that the Act actually introduces certain restrictions on fuel types, on the one hand, with some transitional period, the obligation to use higher-class boilers. At the same time, we as a resort, although this has not been entered, believe deeply that we will be able to improve the solution. And it wasn't written because we had to work it out first. It is related to electric heating. For various historical reasons, electric heating was, well, strongly disqualified in the energy assessment of new buildings and those which are subject to capital renovations. It's kind of an inertia of thought. I mean, they took the old parameters, they took the data that were counted 10 years ago, and it was decided that it had very negative effects. And we get the opposite effect from the intended one, which is a very high emission from the domestic furnace, which burns coal, and most often anything, is higher than the possibility of electric heating, which is an irrational approach. But because it is a kind of chain structure, partly derived from a directive that needs to be reinterpreted to show that we are primarily concerned with electricity in the night valley, so it is an efficiently different kind of instrument than just, so, at any time, the use to heat a farel included in the contact... But in order to do that, we need to be able to measure it directly in real time, and we're preparing it. These are, I hope, time episodes measured in months, not in terms of term. Therefore, as soon as this solution is almost ready, we will try to pass it on to you. I think that it will become an element that will allow a significant change to be made in the short term. And even though we have introduced bans and restrictions in the current regulations, I would warn against too easy succumbing to such a vision that if we issue a ban, we will eliminate pathology. Nor do we want our society to put in a position, well, to control that in every house a policeman, nor do we want to cause, as it were, people who cannot afford other solutions today to face the situation of energy poverty, an impossible situation. We introduce these solutions by measuring the goal and possibilities. In fact, it's a lot. This is about 3 million single-family homes, a large part of which concerns the province, concerns families of people who are not wealthy, who live with small amounts of poor quality land, who work occasionally. Well, we need to be aware that it is not enough to ban, we need to find a solution that is feasible, effective. And that's what we're working on. Now for cogeneration and gas turbines. Ladies and gentlemen, we built a gasport in Poland to reduce our dependence on supplies from the eastern direction. If we look at the development at this time, whether it's technological sources or heat sources, we have to say to ourselves that a large part of this surplus has already been developed. So the next moves towards increasing the share of gas in the Polish market, well, we need to treat them as movements that we will carry out with certainty that we have managed to start. At least the beginning of the Baltic Pipe construction, possibly, which my colleagues are also talking about, we will provide the right quantities, large gas supply from sources, e.g. Americans at low prices. And, ladies and gentlemen, here is one obvious problem: gas delivered from the east has an administrative price. What does that mean? That he by definition would be about so-called. epsilon cheaper than gas from other sources. Because it's not an economic price. It's just that it's hard for us to solve the problem of independence. So looking at the construction of the local power plant itself, I would say this: gas of course. has many advantages, such as the ability to react dynamically. But gas isn't a cheap solution. As an energy raw material, gas is more expensive than coal, so the operating cost is higher. And it is true that, where heat and power plants were upgraded, they were switched to gas, the heat bills increased. Talk to the President of Krakow, who began to wonder very strongly if it wasn't a shot... the possibility of him continuing his political mission... And I'm talking about a person who's from different political circles than the current government. Well, we wouldn't want a political dispute going along a line like this because it's a negative line for citizens. I mean, citizens should get warm at moderate, affordable prices. And that's what we should do over political divisions. So we have to approach the fact that we want to have the cleanest burn and at the same time be able to deliver heat at the lowest price.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u110	Thank you, Minister. Senator Joseph the Hare, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u111	Minister, Mr Marshal, looking at the energy map of Poland, it must be said that it is characterized by a very large asymmetry of the location of energy sources. Being loyal to my constituents, I think for one time I would like to ask whether the Lublin, or exactly the Chelm coal deposits are somewhere on the horizon of energy planning that your ministry will introduce. That's because coal can be mined about 3 and 4 times cheaper there than in Silesia. One example is the Bogdanka, from which coal trains go to Kozienice and other places. The development of these deposits is done, eventually you can build 1 or 2 mines at any time, build a power plant, but... Just yesterday came such unpleasant news and I had a whole lot of phones in the evening that this is from the energy plans prepared by local authorities, the water reservoir of the Oleśniks was removed, which everyone read as the end of the planning related to coal mining and construction of the power plant in Lublin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u112	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u113	Mr. Senator, I'm not hiding that I don't have full knowledge about this, not even about the energy sector. Minister Tobiszowski is involved in coal matters. Regardless of the fact that Minister Tchórzewski takes care of everything, and especially getting us to work. However, I will say on the basis of this knowledge, which I currently have. These deposits, of which you refer to as the Chelms, is a fragment of decks that extend from Bogdanka, in fact, in the vicinity of Chelm there is such an underground Well, that's what we're gonna call it. A fault that ends the mentioned deposits in this area when it comes to Poland. But they move on to Ukraine. And there the same deposit used to be used for the island of Amber, which, as a result of some political decision, was converted to anthracite. And therefore, our coal is already moderately suited to them. Well, that's why there are numerous implications, especially for Ukraine itself. If this is about opening new mines right now, I'm gonna say yes. We are at a stage of quite intense restructuring of mining, and this is to ensure its profitability. This is difficult because even though the price of coal has slightly bounced back, it is still low compared to past periods. As you know, investment in the exploitation of the new deposit is a powerful investment. We're not talking about individual millions of zlotys here, because this is where you have to create all the infrastructure. Therefore, at this stage, when this restructuring It's the exit from the collapse. It has absorbed a lot of money, and we need to be very careful about the issue of the exploitation of new deposits. However, it is a resource that is in Poland, which should be secured and planned to use it. When will that be possible and how? I would either ask you to submit an interpellation, or to take advantage of the situation when Minister Tobiszowski will be your guest. I'm sure he'll answer that question specifically, not as little over and over as I do right now. As for the water tank in Oleśniki, I don't want to speak either. I don't know if he would have a function related to a possible mining infrastructure or a retention function. As far as retention functions are concerned, we have many important challenges related to the issue of the Vistula. Right? We have Puławy, we know what's going on in there... We've got a billion-dollar, multi-billion-dollar investment to make in the form of a second partition, or the first one could get in. Let's hope it's not fast. At some point in the crash. We have a few places in the south of Poland... In general, however, the evolution of the energy sector shows that resources that can act as energy storage are increasingly needed. In the context of all the technological progress that provides electronic solutions, we need to face the truth. Marketing has been saying for several years that in a moment such solutions will be able to hit, so to speak, under the roof, but within the framework of professional, professional activities, which in turn will allow for reasonable money to accumulate such amounts of power so that they are essential in the energy system, i.e. professional... It doesn't exist yet. And this solution, even though it is about 30% of the losses, is the peak pump power plants. It's just that these are individual-powerful investments. Again, it must be said that the energy sector in Poland is an area where at the moment we need tens of thousands of dollars. The billions of zloty to invest. This isn't about the idea of where else to put a nice toy. Each such investment brings certain benefits, but too wide-ranging an investment front, taking into account all needs, is not logical and it cannot end well. Therefore, we are setting priorities, looking at the policy of the European Commission, the European Union, and we are trying to create a plan that, on the one hand, will be in line with what Europe is planning. Only there we will have at least a year of discussion around the winter package, so we would not want to adapt to solutions that may not come into force and can be very painful. On the other hand, we have a huge scale of needs and a huge number of very meaningful things. Only that this is a priority: first to rebuild basic power and then, eventually, to compensate. However, the water law that I would say is on its way I do not know at what stage it is, whether it has already crossed the parliamentary path or is somewhere else here with you. It is one of the instruments to support cooperation between our two resorts, i.e. on the one hand to ensure that environmental, retention objectives are achieved and on the other hand to create peak-pump potential. So I assure you that these considerations do not take place on a principle: we do not, because someone did not think of it. Usually, if there is a compromise somewhere, it results simply from limited investment resources, which Poland can attract to energy, to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u114	Minister, now I want to ask you a question about antismog activities. Because actually the heating period is over and whether it is not so that the government has already forgotten what the problems were, especially in the south of Poland, in Małopolska. So I have a question for you. Is the Ministry preparing a law or regulations that will make it mandatory to apply new ones, but not in such a way as to eliminate old heating systems in individual farms, or is the government not working on it? That question refers to what Senator Stanisławek said. 'Cause I feel like when that smog period ended, the government stopped doing that. But maybe you can get me out of a mistake. The second question concerns a nuclear power plant built in Belarus. As you mentioned, this was the idea of building a nuclear power plant in Kaliningrad and even the foundations were poured out, but the decisive action of the Polish, Lithuanian and German governments, who claimed that they would not buy this electricity, ended this construction, i.e. The Russians pulled out of it. Now we've got advanced. already construction of a nuclear power plant in Belarus. Lithuanians are definitely against it. I would like to know what the attitude towards this construction of the Polish government is, and if not the government, the ministries. Are we going to buy this energy from a nuclear power plant in Belarus or not? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u115	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for these two questions. And they're a little bit different from the original theme. I'm going back to the low-emission issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure to some extent the government's work is shown in the media mirror. And this interest in the media is treated by the nuisance of a given phenomenon for citizens. Well, since this severe winter is over, the media have moved the axis of their narrative towards whether the government has forgotten, and probably in about a month or so, and the media will forget about this issue. It's different here. Work on the regulation of the introduction of fifth-generation furnaces is underway, and they are, as far as I know... I don't participate in them, but I do. Minister Tobiszowski and his departments spoke about how to select and quality fuels. So that this act is being prepared and he, I hope, will enter into force according to this clocking, needing, that is, before the new heating season. We just need to remember that he will not eliminate the phenomenon in a prompt manner, because it is not possible to order the replacement of existing installations from day to day. Therefore, there will be adjustment periods and this adjustment period must be both the period during which producers will adapt on the one hand. We would very much like Polish producers to play an active role here, and this is, of course, a possibility. On the other hand, investors who, when designing buildings, provide for certain solutions. But these solutions are offered by designers and architects. They must, too, so to speak, catch the wind of this following change in sails. These are not long periods in the sense, so to speak, historical changes. But from the point of view of individual people who come out and feel smog, it's probably too long. Well, well. Here we can only try to create other activities. If the marshal mentioned Podhale, I'd say I've had a chance to familiarize myself with the progress of the Zakopane geothermals. I was very impressed. You're welcome, because I'm sure they'll be happy to say good-bye. There was an extensive district heating network. It is really impressive how the huge area of Zakopane has been covered by it. And there are concepts of further drilling and including these other cities. And although there's some controversy around geothermals because they're deep and expensive wells and they don't always get on the right, so to speak, the material that allows to generate heat, sufficient temperature, but the place that Podhale is, is mostly, an area that's pretty good enough to generate heat for heating. And the other towns want to go the same way, in such a nicely thought out way. The point is that the base heat will be delivered as a result of a well, and for a few or a dozen days a year when extreme temperatures occur, it would be to warm up not another hole, which would be monstrously expensive for something that would be operated for several days a year, only a conventional source. And such a mix turns out to be a method to solve quite an important part of the problem. And this network, as I said, is developing very rapidly to my very positive surprise. At the same time, Tauron and AGH and many municipalities that have decided to build energy clusters are currently working on a pilot solution for electric heating. Tauron says he'll provide the right tariffs. And although we are not yet ready with a national system, this leads to a local solution where energy can actually be measured taking into account when it affects and how it happens by the time of the day, to the amount of energy. And we want to look closely at this pilot solution so that we will not make any mistakes about the national solution. So that's what's happening right now. And I assure you that the amount of snow lying down doesn't affect this idea, how it works. Did... Oh, sorry, Belarus. Mr. Marshal, maybe I'll start with the King. Unfortunately, the Russians haven't forgotten this project. In the corridors of the European Commission, which may be surprisingly, lobbyists run with a slide presentation, on which you can see that professionals, who know our network well, suggest to the committee the solution of Poland's problems through Russia, through the introduction of power, and in many points that are perfectly hit by some possibilities of power absorption in Poland. And they lobby for this project to be realized. At some point in Bratislava they got me with such slogans: why you do not think marketly, it will be cheap energy and all, after all, you will have trouble getting the right power in a moment, look, you can buy it very cheaply from us. Unfortunately, the understanding of European officials is different. There's a part of people who understand very well that this project has its second bottom. But some approach it so that it is very good, cheap energy, let it enter Poland, the Russians will build, so Poles do not need to invest. It's not like this danger has been completely resolved. It is to be expected that the Russians are an intelligent nation and will try to pinch us all the time. And Belarus is, you can say, another form of the same game. But we have to refer to it, referring to the tradition to some extent. With the same joke. So, ladies and gentlemen, as far as Belarus is concerned, there are virtually no connections to Poland at the moment. There was one line that was in a deplorable state of engineering, and at the moment, in fact, for safety reasons, it was stripped. She was used for some kind of ad hoc compensation by the distribution system operator, not even PSE. There's another line that actually ends up running. Therefore, for today without a new investment, we do not even have the technical ability to take electricity from Belarus. Of course Belarus is connected to Lithuania. I note that in fact Ostrowiec is very close to Lithuania, so we are able to understand some reasons for concern on the part of the Lithuanians. But it seems to us that the easiest way to end this discussion is by Lithuania to make a clear statement that it is not interested in buying electricity from a new power plant. And Lithuania has a different narrative. It provides safety-related thesis. And here's a little... Its allegations are considered childish because this construction is carried out under the supervision of international agencies. The Russians are not the first day involved in nuclear energy and know how to meet standards. Even an accident related to the fall of a piece Maybe it's the wrong name. The concrete reactor casings... That's a couple hundred tons of concrete, right? But the concrete, falling from a few meters high, does not radically change its properties. After the X-ray, it might be clear whether something broke or not. And the Russians' approach shows just what they said: Okay, we'll deliver a new one. So he's here as if he's misdirected by Lithuania's vector. And we, without being able to buy energy directly, what more can we really say? That we're not gonna buy if we can't buy anyway. But we wouldn't want to join the narrative at this point, which is an untraceable narrative. I mean, there's no danger of construction. You can't say that when the Russians build it, it's definitely dangerous. Well, that's the thing that would allow the Russians to... Sorry, Belarusians use a similar narration technique in relation to our construction when this decision will finally be made and construction will begin. Therefore, we do not want to get involved in this type of game and use arguments that are not in line with the technical state, because this can then be used against us. I don't even know if that's what the Russians want.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u116	Thank you, Minister. There's no more questions. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has given a lot of attention to the clean energy package for all Europeans. There are a number of these regulations. Today, we, as the Senate's plenary, are actually to express our views on the issue of non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the two documents. The first document is, in short, No 861, which is a regulation and which, as far as substantive content is concerned, mainly concerns generators, power generation and support for electricity generators. This is a key issue for us; the second document is, in short, No 864 and it is a directive, so it is a document which obliges our country, if adopted, to introduce internal regulations that meet the demands of the directive. This second document essentially concerns consumers, concerns energy consumers and is less controversial, which is why the opinion, I would say, is more general and, I would say, much milder. This document 864 deals with flexible measurement, choice of energy supplier, prosumer issues. On the other hand, what was here on the margin mentioned Well, maybe not by the way, but there was a speech. It's energy poverty... Because when these documents refer to the burning of various wrong fuels, it is referred to as energy poverty, which means that people cannot afford clean energy, heating houses, whether they are gas or electricity. I, when I'm here, would like to do a lot of that. Yes, to a large extent, to argue with what the Minister said here, but in the context of energy policy for the long future. I would also like to say that these documents, which the committee has adopted and asks the Senate to accept, should be accepted. This is In particular, the opinion on the non-compliance of document 861, namely the regulation, is in our interest, strongly in the national interest and in the interests of our energy. I would describe this matter in a general way: actually, the general idea that the whole package is going through. And which, unfortunately, hurts us, because we are not prepared for it, and besides, we have a completely different energy set-up -- is that the European Union is essentially going to go through time to the dominant use of renewable energy in different parts of Europe -- from different sources, and the energy base, which is constant, wants to provide thanks to two sources, i.e. it would be nuclear energy and the one from the gas thermal power plants. This general idea would be actually very good, if not that our thermal energy is based on coal and still a long time will be based on coal. And it's not just that we have a lot of old power plants and old blocks, it's also about what we've been investing in lately, because it's also carbon energy. So this is about a new large brown coal block in Bełchatów, still Kozienice, Opole Also two large blocks... This should all be able to function in accordance with our energy plan for the next, say, 30 years, but it is in a major conflict with the plans of the entire Union. I think we're in a dramatic predicament. Therefore, Even with some reservations about the policy At this stage, we need to support those documents that actually aim to ensure that this EU law does not enter into force or that changes are made to it. But we must also tell ourselves honestly and openly that the future is this: this European idea, despite many difficulties and despite many accusations, which he wrote, among others. Minister, he will win. He's actually... This ends with the fact that the base will be non-carbon. And this is about burning coal, not protein. After all, gas is coal too. So, Minister, this is decarbonisation in energy, directly by burning coal. That's the point, so there's nothing to fight that password. On the other hand, there are certain elements of this position that need to be fought against, even though there is no doubt about it. In fact, all these experts and this whole plan... There is no doubt that ultimately a percentage of energy will come from renewable sources. It's only a matter of how long and how long it takes. As far as the question of payment is concerned, i.e. subsidies for renewable energy, this period is slowly ending. It's not like... it's just ending because this production is getting cheaper, especially when it comes to photovoltaics. By the way, yesterday I read in popular sources that I think Polenergia, if I'm not mistaken, got environmental approval to build a second farm in the Baltic with a target capacity of 1 thousand 200 MW. I consider this to be very good news, although the time horizon of this possible construction, which is likely to arise, is quite far, because it is to be after 2020. It's a nice couple of years, but it'll give you some breath. I have to say that this big investment that's going to be built on the Baltic Sea, which is already agreed, will have windmills. This is for a certain illustration of the 200 m rotor diameter. This rotor diameter will be about the same as the height of the cultural palace. These are huge structures and huge powers. But it's certain... This is all about the fact that this energy is going to end more or less in the way that the European Union envisages and how I do it. I draw here. Unfortunately, we must, at least temporarily, oppose it, because not only our old power plants, but also what we are building now are going the other way. There is a reason for this. I can't say it's not justified. As far as our opinions are concerned, the opinion to document 861, i.e. to regulation... The most painful part of us is the 550 g CO2/kWh standard, which depends on whether public aid can be used, i.e. that this is covered by the power market. It's not like we're not allowed to. We're allowed, but it'll be so expensive, there's nothing to compare it to gas. Without support and without entry into the power market, our coal-based energy will simply be dramatic. And that's the problem. The time horizon of her work, as I said, must be 30 years from now in the case of these new building units. There's no need to depreciate the gas. Here, as Senator Stanisławek said, gas and gas energy, in particular combined with heat and power plants, have huge advantages. Firstly, in the case of gas, CO2 emissions per unit of power are significantly lower, because by 50% 70% less than in the case of coal combustion. Secondly, these power plants run quickly. This is mostly about peak power. Our problem is the lack of peak power, i.e. the lack of power for those that run very quickly. The hydroelectric plants in the country have 3, their power is low. The closest we're gonna get is the Hawk-Hawk... I don't know, we're in Warsaw, so maybe Żarnowiec. Anyway, here's a small reserve. The whole European system And that's why these capacity regimes are so stressed here, as well as the issue of cross-border mergers, is that these renewable energies are supposed to compensate within Europe. Is that possible? We are very critical of this, but over time it will work. All Scandinavia is preparing, through the construction of pumped power plants, to be such a reservoir of renewable energy, so that it is relatively easy to accumulate energy during a period when there is a big wind. They're obviously unsynchronized... The Scandinavian system is not synchronized with Western European, which is ours, so... However, these cables and these transformers are built from east to west, and Europe is actually preparing for this. You can't deny it, because it's gonna end like this, and we're gonna have to put our mind to it, too, and get ready for it. [[Mr. Senator, you're gonna have to go slowly.]] For the time being, we should support these positions, or at least not oppose them, if someone has a very green view. I'm clear, but I can see there's no way out of here anyway. Finally, if you're a marshal... Because Mr. Marshal brought it up. I was at that conference in Latvia. In fact, I was presenting a position there. The issue of desynchronisation of the systems of the Baltic States and the Russian system, i.e. the separation from Ostrowiec, and the transition to the European system, was discussed. And these options which the European Union has calculated and presented were presented, and the issue of Link 2, i.e. the latter connection by Poland. So it's to some extent, at least theoretically, a threat, if it's a threat, buying energy by e.g. Latvia and Lithuania and transmission to Poland, but if they implement desynchronization, then it is relatively easy to control, because it happens so that this current is straightened and then inverted again. That's if there's a desynchronization. The Russians really do lobby very strongly, and so do the Belarusians. To tell you the truth, if we were to be very honest, if the Russians and the Belarusians were a responsible partner and if there wasn't But it's here if it's important. The threat that it could be politically controlled would be a good thing for us to benefit from. Unfortunately, this partner doesn't have a high level of credibility, and not just with us. Therefore, we need to look for other solutions and, for now, actually support these positions of non-compliance, although in general, they are not beneficial for us in the future and are slightly far-fetched. Maybe except for the charge for this standard 550 g, because it is clearly set against carbon, so it is not objective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u118	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! It's hard to disagree with what the professor, Senator Wach, just said. Indeed, these draft resolutions concern the fundamental dilemmas facing Poland, and not from now on. It seems that a fundamental question needs to be raised: what are we doing over time, and which should be used more to revise our strategic energy and climate targets? Already today, it is clear that these Polish attempts, regardless of political colours, to separate energy from climate issues, have failed. Europe, the European Union wants to build a coherent energy and climate policy, and not only the European Union, regardless of the various political turmoil. There seems to be no alternative to the world. These two issues need to be combined. I've said here before that we need to be reevaluated in our thinking. Let us stop thinking as if the European Union wanted to harm Poles by demanding certain standards that are important for climate protection on our globe, not just on our continent. That's not true. We're in a common European home. We've talked about this long enough to know that the globalized world is our common boat we're sailing. If they understand this in China, trying to reduce coal and coal mining, then why don't we want to or can't make such a re-evaluation, no matter how complicated it would be for us, of course, difficult and how it would have to be and it certainly has to be. It's spread over time. ♪ We're the time ♪ ♪ We're the I'm going back to my first thought. Unfortunately, we use our positions more to defend ourselves, status quo rather than the change that is necessary. Of course, I'm not saying that it wasn't done and it's not done much, but it's definitely not enough. Surely, in the public debate, the defence of the coal sector in energy, not the promotion of renewable energy, is strongly pierced. We saw this when we discussed the Renewable Energy Act. So if we judge our position here on these resolutions... There was a difference at the committee meeting. In fact, it was said that it was not really formal... Because, of course, it is possible to argue whether, in terms of energy as part of an economy that is unified, the Union is indeed going too far. You can find arguments for yes, you can find arguments for them, depending on which treaty you will look at and what rules you will draw up. That's not the point. We all said with one voice that it is our ability to adapt and that it is in our interest that, at the moment we are at which this resolution is taken, which is designed to block the regulation and the directive, so define our interests. I agree with that, too. But I will not agree to define our strategic interest in this way, because it is in our strategic interest to get closer to this mainstream of the European Union and it does not convince me that we are ignoring the importance of climate protection for our health and for our future. That is why I believe that today's debate I listened to her, to the Minister's comments. It's important. It's not just a formal matter, it's a matter of whether or not someone has crossed the rules... broken a rule or not. It is good that we used the time to discuss the future of Polish energy and This is the last point I would like to raise. The future of Poland in the European Union, because after all... [[There wasn't a word about it. Don't develop any more...]] I also talked about this at the committee meeting. [[Mr. Senator, I'm...]] I'm almost done. Because we are adopting this resolution in a very specific situation. I asked at the committee meeting what chance we had to push our position forward. Isn't it gonna be like we're gonna stay with a few countries again, and there's not gonna be enough of them to block the regulation? It's happened a few times before. In this respect, when we talk about a Europe of many speeds or two speeds, it pushes us to the margins of the Union in an important aspect of European policy. We have to do this today, but we can't do this all the time. It'd be better if you didn't. That's what I've been talking about here. If for Silesia, for the miners, for the people living there we finally had a coherent programme of modern development based on state-of-the-art technologies, rather than endlessly defending the status quo. The miners deserve this perspective, Silesia deserves this perspective. We can afford it, we have patterns in Europe showing that we can. You don't have to insist on the same thing forever. I would like us to once again, because I am certainly not alone in this view, to remind this of this resolution, which I think we should support at this stage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u120	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Adam Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I too, including this important debate, would like to express my views on the draft opinions of the Senate on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity... I am talking here about both the Regulation and the Directive, COM (2016) 861 and COM (2016) 864. I would like to begin by thanking you, Minister, for the fact that, in addition to showing these very necessary arguments that you have put forward here today in the High House, you have also pointed out what is in my deep conviction about today's debate, namely what is the most important issue, which is building energy security and, in my opinion, even something wider, namely the security of the state on the basis of some consensus over divisions. It was the Minister who stressed very much today, and I also believe that this is the point of today's debate on the expression of opinions and on those documents which, in my opinion and in the High House, can significantly complicate the process of development of Polish raw materials energy. I would also like to point out or highlight what Senator Wach has said, and what I believe is actually very crucial and which includes today's debate, because it points to the need for the Senate to express a firm, direct position on the opinion that we are presenting. After all, as we are all here, we do not deny the need to seek consensus on establishing common rules for the internal market in electricity at a higher level than regional or national level, but we should pursue common objectives or a common objective at the level of the European Commission and the European Union by means of our own access routes, those national access routes, which are conditioned by our potential, especially with raw potential. Therefore, in this context, the proposed solution is unacceptable and is contrary to the said principle of subsidiarity referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Treaty on European Union. Actions and decisions covering the conditions of the Polish raw materials and energy sector should therefore take into account the use of rich resources of energy raw materials, including mainly hard coal and lignite, as well as gas, while modernising generation capacity, improving efficiency and implementing new solutions. The transition process should be a source of innovation, new technologies and job creation. It's possible. The examples I would like to present here to the High House are also in mining. Better use of accompanying minerals, including mining methane, in high-efficiency cogeneration processes... The principal's here. After all, a few years ago these solutions could have occurred by means of a certain agreement or consensus. These are new solutions also in grid heating systems Gasification of coal, production of many necessary components. In two weeks' time, the joint committees, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation will host a very important conference to show the achievements of our research facilities, research institutes, including the Main Mining Institute and the Silesian University of Technology, in terms of gassing coal and using new, refined technologies on the possible manufacturing market. Among them is also a chemical conversion of coal or the recently mentioned project of using exhaust gas for the production of nitrogen needed in the protection and prevention of explosion and fire prevention in mining plants. Poland, as I have already said, can be the leader of new solutions in the field of clean coal technologies. New technology and innovation solutions should be targeted at a wide range of prosumers. Low-emission programmes can become more accessible, popular and socially acceptable, which would encourage the whole environment related to the production of equipment and the specialised service sector to benefit the Polish economy. Will Polish raw materials provide a competitive advantage for Polish companies? During today's debate, we should also say something about this. I am firmly convinced that yes, provided that the provisions of the winter package are adapted to our expectations Perhaps a more appropriate term will be here: to our capabilities. And this is not just a proposal for a winter package for units participating in the power market set at 550 kg/MWh, which could eliminate the possibility of building conventional, modern coal units with a minimum capacity of around 750 kg/MWh. It is also about many other important and very dangerous provisions aimed at restricting national energy and fuel and electricity policies and transferring power to the level of the European Commission, which, while introducing restrictive financial instruments, is a huge threat and can be an unbearable burden. I will remind you of the report, in which I also participated, a report on the impact of the tightened climate package on the Polish economy This will reduce GDP by almost 6%. The common target for RES participation in the energy mix set at 27% at European Union level is, in my deepest opinion, a condition for gaining the competitive advantage of Polish companies. in 2030. This will allow for the most efficient development of RES taking into account the regional capacity of Member States. It is also important to maintain a certain technological neutrality in the basket of incentives for the development of renewable energy sources, without excluding, for example. biomass, and the elimination of too much benefits for RES manufacturers. This should also be proportionate to the capacity of the Member States. It will also be an opportunity to introduce an energy dependency ratio. I want to emphasise this strongly. Which should reflect the market share of domestic fuels, both renewable and conventional, I would say more conventional. This energy independence should be a priority here. An assessment of capacity adequacy at national levels should be a useful condition for the eligibility of the power market while assessing the risks of a shortage of energy supply. We should therefore seek a flexible approach to cross-border capacity requirements in support mechanisms. Finally, once again expressing my great satisfaction with the information presented here by the Ministry of Energy, I would like to stress that our position today is fully justified and reflects our capabilities and conditions of raw materials and energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u122	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krystian Probier. [[Was the senator before me?]] Yes, in front of the senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I fully agree with the position being debated, which will probably be adopted by the Senate. With certain opinions in this Chamber, I fully agree, and with some absolutely not. I fully share the position expressed here that the so-called. climate policy is based on ideology, not on economics or technical capabilities. Connecting the so-called. energy policy and climate policy is not based on science, it is a pretext. As a geologist, climate change has occurred in ancient geological times, regardless of whether people have already lived on this planet or not. We couldn't control it. Of course, a man can do a lot. He can do a lot of good and a lot of bad This is another matter. In any case, this is just an excuse to justify changes resulting from ideology. There's no scientific evidence to justify it. E.g. that carbon dioxide emissions are a decisive factor in climate change, anthropogenic emissions. I would like to point out that it is a good thing that the European Commission has not yet heard that every healthy human body emits 2 kg of CO2 per day. If she had heard about it, perhaps we would also be taxed in this regard. And that's what we need to talk about. I mentioned these dependencies at the committee meeting. And one more point. As it seems to me, as if a new pyramid of knowledge had been created, I spoke about it at the committee's meeting, primary education, higher education, academics, Nobel Prize winners, and even higher is the European Commission and its experts. No one knows where they came from, no one knows what their powers are. Anyway, we can't take it in an uncritical way. The adoption of the winter package would end with the fact that we would destroy the blood flow of our economy, that is, our energy. Energy is the most important system in every country. Getting rid of power or being able to control this system would just set us apart. What would that lead to? Of course, energy could be imported, e.g. from the west of Europe, and coal, e.g. from the East, in case that coal isn't there yet. Speaking of what we have heard here, the European Union is still using this carbon, perhaps not as much as it used to, and its aim is to move coal energy beyond, but that does not mean that outside Europe carbon emissions will be less. Yes, and by the way, the European Union's emissions are at a rate of a dozen or so per cent. It used to be 14%. I suspect that maybe now there is a slightly less percentage of CO2 emissions that comes from sources located within the European Union. With huge financial resources that make the Union's economy more competitive, we can even lead to zero emissions, but CO2 emissions will continue to take place outside the European Union. That's it. So that, with a huge financial effort, we can have an inconsequential global effect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u124	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Alicia Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry! I've written down a few points, but I'll be brief. When the Foreign Affairs Committee was joined in this term with the European Union committee, I was not satisfied with this. But today, before the High House, I would like to say that, thanks to working in this term of office in this committee, which deals with many things that are not discussed later at the Senate plenary session, we learn about many things, we have an insight into many documents that are adopted in the European Union. Thanks to this work, we can learn a lot and understand some of the decisions we have made before. An example is the liquidation of a company that has existed for several decades in the city where I live, in Jasle, the company of the exploration for kerosene and gas, which was once called, and has recently changed its name to Exalo. When we asked why it happened, the translations were different. Today, when I as rapporteur read these packages of documents on the Energy Union, today's documents, hundreds of pages of annexes, I understood these and other decisions, the particular one I am talking about, and many others. This is a sad summary in this passage. The proof that the Law and Justice Government is taking great care of these matters that we are dealing with in these 2 points is the appointment of the Ministry of Energy. This ministry, which we can observe at the meetings of our committee, is perfectly prepared to conduct discussions, negotiations and also to support our committee in these actions which we are taking today, concerning opposition, i.e. to express an opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. Poland did not join the European Union without thinking, without overworking, to accept all the documents that arise there. The duty of the government and also of us senators is to take care of the interests of our country, and the interest of our country is to thoroughly and factually review all the directives and regulations that we are to implement in the future. Please support the objection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u126	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two things. The unification of all companies that were engaged in drilling within the PGNiG group made sense in 1 company. Of course, this process was not easy and it is not easy, it is still ongoing, but the distraction... We criticize the fragmentation on the railroad, the division into dozens of companies. That's what PGNiG looked like. Today these companies are less. Maybe it's okay. Anyway, that was the point of this company, which is 100%. participation in PGNiG. But I'm on another case. I don't think the climate world has gone crazy trying to command here just now. Crazy presidents and premieres from all over the world gathered in Paris, Chinese, Indians, Americans, Europeans. Is the world crazy? [[Yeah, he's crazy...]] No. Studies confirm the connection between CO2 emissions and the acceleration of climate change, and acceleration. After all, no one, Mr. Senator, is questioning natural processes. But the pace of these changes is responsible for increasing CO2 emissions and other greenhouse gases. And it's something to worry about. If we really question this issue, which is one of the key issues in European Union policy, and not only on this issue, we will be at the margins of the Union. Now I'm going to refer to what Senator Hare said. Indeed, even here, in this group, we should take a lot of time to define our national interest in this matter. Is it really in our interest to become, for some years, an energy museum of Europe with the most expensive energy in Europe? I don't know if you know we're already crazy about the price of energy. Why is that? Let's think about it. We're buying it. Do we really want the most expensive energy in Europe for our citizens? That's our target? This is our national business? This is the business of our companies? That'll give us jobs? No, you're not! So, of course, you can try to convert carbon energy based on state-of-the-art technologies, and that's what Senator Gazweda said. That's carbon gas. Maybe some future actually... Then let's talk about it. Let's talk about it, let's invest in it and go in that direction, remembering that we're in the same family. Let's try to get along in this family by keeping pace, but let's go in the same direction as the others. If we mock And that's what happened a while ago. Something that is at the heart of European politics is what we in this family are going to look like. That's the kind of thinking I object to. I don't think it's in the interests of the Poles. I don't think it's Polish business. It is in Polish interest to have good, clean, accessible and cheap energy. I believe that this is what the Union is trying to do. Those who have many times higher renewable energy rates have less electricity than we, in the same family, a European family. Whoever wants to go to Denmark, Sweden, elsewhere, let them see what it's like, what it looks like, and how it might look like in our home.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u128	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Hare. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u129	We want to get along, Mr. Senator Augustine, but in case of good and sensible actions. We cannot support such political action, as a result of which the seat was moved to Piła, which caused the four-storey building, the only building in the 38-thousandth city that had an air-conditioned room, where for many years it was sitting. the district council and where several hundred people who were offered work in Krakow, in Pile, in Zielona Góra were dismissed. Consider the distance between Jasel and Krosn. It was the cradle of the oil industry in the present Podkarpacie. When it was examined about changes in Polish Petroleum and Gas Mining, we had a meeting of parliamentarians Podkarpacie and Małopolska. When we heard at this meeting that the cradle of the oil industry is western Poland, then, believe me, I was born in Wroclaw, but I live in Jasle my whole life I wanted to leave, and I'm a very calm person, and I didn't want to go back to that group that told such nonsense. We must not forget about the human factor, how even the most important business activities are undertaken. Man is the most important thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u130	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I wasn't going to speak, but when I heard Senator Augustine say about carbon dioxide and its huge impact on the climate, I felt a little called to speak. Well, ladies and gentlemen, a holistic holistic approach to the subject of the climate gives a slightly different picture. We cannot give in to certain shallow, circular propaganda opinions. Let me say this: the legislator can create the market and strengthen the demand for certain goods. Example: In China there is an obligation to monitor each bridge. Tens of thousands of cameras We need to produce video systems... And I think that this madness around the climate in Europe is a bit of a character. I mean, I'm in favour of protecting the climate in every dimension of it, but we have to keep it down in legislation, in action and in argumentation, because this argument becomes unbelievable and compromises both the idea and those who say it. I would just like to remind you that there was an e-mail leak at a climate summit in Scandinavia, if I remember correctly when the highest climate authorities exchanged views among themselves. Maybe I'd quote, if I were going to go out on that stand earlier... I don't mean to say that I'm walking around with this, but I've got it on hand, I'm keeping the study of a recognized Professor Marian Mike, he was a senator, a lot of us know him. This is a study on climate and energy issues, and here you are, Prof. Milek speaks on this subject, presents data, arguments and says that the increase in CO2 is the result, not the reason that with certain changes in temperature, especially with its increase, CO2 content increases. Then he clearly speaks, for example. Thousands of times the climate is affected by the water vapour content in the air. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us really be wise about this and take into account the consequences. Well, if there's a lobby behind it, there's a lot of money behind it, then we can't give in. We can't give in to this. That is why I ask for caution in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u132	Thank you, Senator. [[If you'd like to speak, please sign me up.]] Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I, of course, do not want to get into a debate about whether climate warming, which is undoubtedly present, is caused by man, whether it is cyclical and occurs every 100,000 years and has come upon us because I do not feel competent about it. All I know is that, in general, the vast majority of scientists on this subject say that human action is of serious importance here, and that's all. But not about this. Only when discussing the directive itself... Because as for the directive, we approach it from the side, let's say to ourselves, its effects and when they occur, whether they occur quickly or later... Of course, with our fuel structure, all rapid, rapid actions are dangerous and, of course, it is in Poland's interest that they are not. But this discussion, as it is with us in the Senate, has developed more widely on climate issues, but also on energy mix issues and what we actually have to generate this energy. So I'm going to present the so-called common sense view, maybe not specifically scientific, but common sense. Firstly, whether coal combustion compared to renewable energy compared to gas I'm skipping an atom right now, because it's already a more distant case, is it more harmful or less harmful? Well, it's more harmful. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to do everything to make it less harmful, including in the long term replacing coal with other sources. And there must be a clear program. [[There it is.]] There's another program for us right now. For now, there's a program to subsidize the mine all the time. And then there's the second line. If we're extracting coal from an ever greater depth, from 1000 m, from 1100 m, from 1200 m, is that something that we should continue? After all, the extraction of coal from this depth requires a whole mass of equipment to work there, including. air conditioning. Well, I'm not talking about the safety and the accidents that happen there anymore. Is this something we should continue indefinitely? Yes, you can talk about new deposits, more available deposits, investments, but you have to walk away from it. Meanwhile, we are still dealing with actions to maintain this extraction. It involves banks that are forced to finance such policies, as well as state-owned companies, which are also forced to buy out shares of coal companies. I am simply pointing out that we would be much more credible in our resistance to certain, so to speak, in the fight against climate warming, if we had to propose a clear, clear policy on this matter, and not just a constant one, so to speak, meanders and gags, which notabene, to make the matter clear, are not just a feature of the coalition that currently rules. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u134	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly. Senator Szymański said that many of the comments I made have already been made. I am all the more surprised to hear from Senator Augustine, who immediately preceded my speech, but that is clearly the logic of our House. I would just like to add this briefly, although I do not want to argue with my previous speaker, who here expressed the thought that some evolutionary action is needed and that the revolution is impossible here. I would like to say that modern coal power plants emit two-fold, three times less dust and carbon dioxide, well below EU standards, so if we had half the supermodern coal power plants and half the old ones, we would have met these requirements and it would have been good. And let's not forget, if this trial were to go any further... So that modern coal energy She really is quite good in environmental terms. When it comes to comparing other sources, we need to compare them with the latest technologies that are modern. I'm thinking of any so-called. renewable sources. Second thing. We give in to such a very superficial belief that e.g. Photovoltaics is more ecological. But let's consider the production and disposal of this photovoltaics. If it counts together, this ecology isn't gonna be so good. It's just a brief addition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u136	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that the list of speakers in the joint discussion on the 14th and 15th paragraphs has been exhausted. The joint discussion is closed. Now the Senate could join third readings of draft opinions. These third readings would only cover the vote. They will be held together with other votes. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and the Act amending the Act on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 497, and the report of the Commission In print No 497 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Andrzej Szymański, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u137	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the opinion of the committee on the Act amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and the Act amending the Act on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws. Let me start by saying two sentences about the purpose of this amendment, the purpose of this law. The amendment of the Law of 25 June 1999 on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity concerns medical certificates on incapacity for work or the need to pair up care of a sick family member, which is evidence when determining the right to benefits under this title and the amount of the benefit. The Act introduces a new way of authenticating medical certificates issued in electronic form. Because the transition to electronic form is planned for 2 years. A year and a half has passed since then, and it turns out that about 3% of doctors use such certificates in an electronic company. In January, in accordance with the applicable legal provisions, the situation should already be such that 100% such certificates shall be issued in electronic form. In response to this, legislation has been proposed that will enable the use of software and the use of ZUS infrastructure so that it can actually be done. During the discussion at the committee meeting, barriers were pointed out. These barriers are twofold. Firstly, it was pointed out that this electronic issue of certificates has been unreliable; secondly, it is a matter of time-consumingness, i.e. it often takes longer than traditional writing. In order to remedy this, we have proposed what I have already mentioned. The ZUS has stated that it is working with doctors, with the family ministry, and there is hope that this will actually be possible to introduce. The Act also provides for a six-month extension of the possibility of issuing certificates both in electronic form and in traditional form. And it seems that there should actually be a transition to an electronic formula during this period. There was a discussion on this matter. None of the senators questioned the legal arrangements. In the vote, all the senators present at the committee voted in favour of the bill. No amendments were tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u138	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any reports, Senator, so thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Marcin Zielenecki like to take the floor and present the position of the government? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 21 April 2017, the Sejm passed a law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity, as well as a law which at the same time amends the Law amending the Law amending the Act, the Act of 15 May 2015. The need for this law is due to the unsatisfactory pace of implementation of a new form of medical certificate on incapacity for work, namely electronic form. According to the regulations in force today from 1 January 2018, the electronic form of medical certificates will be the only form by which doctors will be able to issue sick leave. The Law of 15 May 2015 introduced a two-year transitional period which has been in force since 1 January 2016. This is the period during which medical certificates can be issued in parallel in the traditional form, i.e. in writing and in this new form. E-mail: http://ec.europa.eu/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/mail/e-mail/e-mail/mail/e-mail/mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/mail/e-mail/e-mail/mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail/e-mail The pace of implementation of this new form is very small. It can be said that only around 3% of medical certificates have so far been issued by doctors using a new electronic form. Information coming from the medical community shows that there are actually two barriers that limit the possibility of introducing a new form more quickly, electronic medical certification. The first is a financial barrier related to the need to buy the so-called secure electronic signature. The second barrier is a barrier more, I would say, organizational, but also associated with the time-consuming use of the second form of authentication of such a medical certificate, i.e. with the help of a trusted ePUAP profile. We felt that there was a need to remove these barriers precisely by enabling doctors to use the social insurance institution's IT system to issue such medical certificates in electronic form in a cost-effective, but more efficient way than the organizational, less time-consuming way. The Act provides that the date of entry into force of the third new method of authentication of medical certificates will be 1 December 2017. It can be said that this is a short period, a short period preceding the end of this transitional period. There is little time left for the introduction of this new electronic form, and there will be little time for doctors to benefit from these facilities that the Act introduces, so there is a need to extend the transitional period. The Act provides that this period during which doctors will be able to use both forms of medical certificates, traditional written and new electronic certificates will be extended until the end of June 2018. I ask the High House to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u140	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may report a maximum of one minute of query to a government representative related to the item on the agenda. I don't see any questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm about to announce a recess, and before the announcements break.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u141	Message number one. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the examination of requests submitted to the Act amending the Act on Cinema and some other laws will take place today, on 27 April immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 176. Message number two. The joint meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad on the examination of the requests submitted to the law establishing the Western Cross will take place today, 10 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 176. [[There's no legislation?]] No.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u142	Thank you. Dismissed until 4:30 p.m. After the break we will return to the third point, i.e. the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight. It's a government project. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 51 to 16 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. Please take your seats. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight. The text of the Act is contained in print No 474 and the report of the Commission In print No 474 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance met at its 80th meeting on 19 April and examined the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight. This is Senate printing No 474. The committee's report can be found in print No 474 A. At its meeting, the Commission proposed the adoption of 39 amendments, mainly legislative ones. Representatives of statutory auditors' organisations and cooperative audit associations came to the committee meeting. They put forward a number of demands which were discussed in depth at the meeting. Following the closure of the report, following a discussion at the committee meeting, amendments were prepared which I would be pleased to submit and discuss during the debate. These amendments meet the expectations of the environments whose representatives came to the committee meeting. Their comments were correct, customs, and therefore there are a number of amendments which I will propose later. I'm not going to present the bill itself because the Minister is in the courtroom. This is a government submission that will discuss in detail the content of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u145	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? I don't see any volunteers, no one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to represent the government during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] On behalf of the government, Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, President of the Senate's Finance and Budget Committee, for his report. If you don't mind, I would like to briefly present a sum which describes the scope of this regulation, a rather comprehensive document that clarifies today's relations between entities and audit firms, as well as the relationship between the provision of tax advisory services. This is a rather important document which primarily implements Directive 2014/56 of the European Union, as well as Regulation No 537 of 2014. This law implements these laws. The new Community rules aim primarily at strengthening the independence and objectivity of auditors and audit firms, improving the quality of statutory audits, strengthening public oversight, defocusing the audit market. The most important solution proposed by the government is to narrow the scope of public oversight and only to cover statutory audits. Voluntary research as well as financial audit activities other than the audit will be subject to supervision and control by the local authority of auditors in the framework of the performance of the statutory tasks of that organisation. The legislator proposed a new catalogue of public interest entities, which includes among others.: issuers of securities; banks, credit institutions and branches of these institutions; insurance and reinsurance undertakings and branches and their main branches; selected brokers; large electronic money institutions; large SKOK-i; open pension funds; open investment funds, specialised investment funds and public investment funds closed; selected investment fund associations; large national payment institutions. Regulatory restrictions on the provision of research and services other than research for the benefit of the audited client are: mandatory rotation of the audit firm examining the entity public interest A maximum of 5 years with a 4-year grace period; a minimum period of employment of an audit firm 2 years; mandatory rotations of a key auditor for audit of public interest units A maximum of 5 years plus 3 years; gradual rotation of the most important subjects in the study teams. There is an extension of the so-called. a black list of services prohibited from being audited. The statutory auditor, the audit firm and any member of the network to which such an audit firm belongs shall be able to provide the audited public interest entity, its parent undertaking and its controlled entities only with the services of auditing activities. The regulation also includes strengthening the process and rules for the selection of audit firms to audit the financial statements of entities of public interest through the obligation to have an audit committee by an entity of public interest. Possibility of performing the functions of audit committee by other bodies, supervisory board or other supervisory or control body in selected small units of interest, cooperative banks, large SKOKs, local government units of public interest, i.e. in the largest local governments... There is an indication that the majority of the members of the audit committee, including its chairman, should be independent of the entity under consideration. The Act requires at least 1 member of the audit committee to have knowledge and skills in accounting or auditing and to have the audit committee as a whole knowledge and skills in the industry in which the audited entity operates. There is a convergence of procedures and rules for the election of an audit firm regardless of the JZP body which makes this choice, the general meeting or the supervisory board. New requirements have been laid down for the organisation of internal audit firms and the reporting of the audit carried out. The new model of public oversight includes the following entities: Audit Supervisory Commission, KNA. Public Supervisory Authority of statutory auditors and audit firms; Financial Supervision Commission, KNF. Public Supervisory Authority of Public Interest Entities; Professional Authority of the Polish Chamber of Auditors, PIBR, performing the tasks entrusted with public oversight. The legislator has defined a catalogue of penalties and persons liable to be punished for violating the provisions of the Act and the Regulation, as well as new rules for the functioning of the public oversight system. The fee for monitoring the quality of JZP statutory audits will be up to 5.5% the revenue of audit firms for the audit of financial audit activities and will be paid directly by audit firms to the State budget. The fee for the oversight of the quality of non-JZP statutory audits shall be up to 1,5% the revenue of audit firms for the execution of financial audit activities in non-JZP and will be paid by audit firms directly to the account of PIBR. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may add a few more sentences... It seems that we have a modern document compared to other European Union countries which have implemented the provisions, the directive and the regulation I mentioned at the outset. This document is one of the more courageous in Europe against other countries, especially for one reason Because of the fact that it is precisely in those largest entities whose catalogue contains about 2 000 such entities as I mentioned earlier that we will be dealing with the separation of advisory services and audit services, which, in our view, will result in such a result that we will have very objective data on accounting, accounting for financial operations and economic operations. Without objectiveising these activities due to their fiscal impact and consequently also the revenue of the state budget... It seems that the separation of this, especially so determined But only in these major entities It is something expected by the regulator, also the EU regulator, which allows and allows this. And like the Netherlands, which, according to our knowledge, was the first to decide this, we also sought such a distinction. As far as rotation is concerned, many countries have chosen longer periods here, e.g. 10-year periods, but in some places they are shorter by a few years. Our mandatory rotation period of 5 years refers to the decision that Greece has adopted for insurers of financial institutions and banking institutions. I would like to thank all of you who have worked closely on this document, particularly for your work in the Senate's Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u147	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki spoke. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present some of the amendments that I have already mentioned in my report. The most important amendment concerns the establishment of services which are not prohibited services. This is a very important extension of the scope of activities to be carried out by auditors. We are talking here about extending this scope in relation to the review relationships to the illustrative activities. Audit unions that control cooperative banks will be able to carry out illustrative activities, which are also a form of advice. Well, actually, the experts who are employed in these review relationships will be able to participate in such illustrative activities. Further services are due diligence procedures, so-called. due diligence, issuance of letters certifying, certification services, examination of historical financial information to the prospectus, verification of consolidation packages, confirmation of fulfilment of the conditions contained in credit agreements, certification services for corporate governance reporting, risk management and corporate social responsibility, services consisting in assessing the compliance of information disclosed by financial institutions and investment firms with disclosure requirements regarding capital adequacy and variable remuneration components, certification of reports and other financial information. The provision of the services referred to in this amendment is only possible in so far as this is not related to the tax policy of the entity concerned. We are clearly talking about the fact that experts in tax optimization procedures should not participate. This is an important amendment and I hereby make it. Of course, I'm handing over the whole package of amendments so I don't forget. Another amendment concerns the review relationships in cooperative banks. We extend the possibility for employees of these audit unions to carry out their auditing activities so as to maintain consistency between this law and the existing regulations. Another amendment, which is also important for cooperative banks, is the relaxation of the independence criteria in the supervisory boards entrusted with the functions of the audit committee. It takes into account the specificities of cooperative banks and cooperative banks. Another amendment, which is also important, is an amendment establishing that members of supervisory boards in cooperative banks, which are public interest entities, will be able to receive remuneration in relation to the scope of the activities which this law imposes on them. The next two amendments are amendments concerning the examination of the qualifications of candidates for auditors, as well as cooperation with universities as bodies entitled to confer a doctoral degree in economic sciences, which are important to clarify and facilitate access to this profession. This is the scope of the amendments I propose. I know that Senator Martynowski's colleague made similar amendments, so basically these are the amendments of two senators that I had the honour of presenting to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u149	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Legislative proposals were submitted by Senator Bierecki and Senator Martynowski. The discussion is closed. I would like to ask the government representative if he would like to comment on the conclusions, the discussions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Mr Marshal, we will respond in detail to each amendment at the committee meeting.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u150	The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of requests submitted at the 40th Senate meeting to the Act on Auditors, Auditors and Public Supervision will be held today 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in Senate sitting in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u151	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a one-and-a-half-hour recess in the Senate. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 47 to 18 minutes 21]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u152	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report. It is available in print No 474 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting, the Commission considered the proposals submitted during the debate on the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and recommended that the High Senate accept the proposals contained in paragraphs 1 to 28, 30 to 35, 37 to 50, 52 and 53. Thank you very much. [[There's still the question of block voting.]] I would also ask, Mr Marshal, to block the votes as requested.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u154	The proposal concerns the joint proposal... The senator is proposing a joint vote on the amendments. Yes? I don't understand. Is this about voting on the amendments together? [[Yes, sir.]] Good. This is about Amendments 1, 3 to 22, 25 to 27, 30 to 32, 34, 37 to 41, 45, 49 and 52, yes? [[Yes, sir. That is exactly the conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] If I don't hear a voice of opposition, that's how we're going to vote. No votes against? [[Voices from the room: No.]] Good. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? No. The conclusions were made by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and Senator Marek Martynowski during the discussion. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. About Amendments 1 and 3... well, I don't have it on the list... [[Voice from the hall: We vote in block, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: At the same time.]] At the same time, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I'll read it again, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can all know what amendments we are voting on. [[Voice from the room: We know...]] That's what you're gonna say. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on Amendments 1, 3 to 22, 25 to 27, 30 to 32, 34, 37 to 41, 45, 49 and 52. Who is in favour of these amendments? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 79 were in favour, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that all these amendments have been accepted. Amendment 2 introduces the mandatory conclusion by the Examination Commission of agreements with organisational units and qualified to grant a doctor's degree in the event of compliance with statutory conditions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 79 in favour, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 2 was accepted. Amendments 23 and 35 correct the reference and clarify the scope of the provision, indicating that it relates only to monetary penalties. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 6]] Amendments 23 and 35 were accepted. Amendment 24 takes into account the specificities of cooperative banks and cooperative savings and credit banks as regards the independence requirements of the members of the audit committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 77 were in favour, with 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment accepted. Now Amendment 28, including Amendment 48. These amendments exclude from the catalogue of services prohibited certain audit services which are not related to the tax policy of the audited entity and define the conditions for that exemption. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 78 were in favour, 1 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 8]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 29... [[Voice from the room: No 33.]] Amendment 33, ma'am, aims to ensure that the provision also refers to the resolutions of the Audit Supervisory Committee on the imposition of administrative penalties. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 36... [[Voice from the room: No 42.]] Amendment 42 aims to ensure that the cooperative bank's audit relationship can carry out all the auditing activities and not just examine the financial statements. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 78 were in favour, 1 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment accepted. Amendments 43, 46 and 53. These amendments eliminate the risks associated with the potential non-publication of the Act by 30 May 2017 with regard to the changes made to the Railway Transport Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 78 were in, two were in. [[Voting No 11]] Amendments accepted. Amendment 44 seeks to ensure that the statutes of the National Savings and Credit Committee may provide for remuneration for members of its Supervisory Board. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 78 were in favour, 2 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 44 accepted. Amendment 47 adds a transitional provision which will allow the candidate to be awarded an auditor's examination of the knowledge given in higher education in the course of which the examination panel concluded that he included the required theoretical knowledge in the scope of education. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 78 were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 50 provides for the creation of a new Audit Supervisory Committee within 90 days of the entry into force of the Act and determines the impact of the new regulations on the existing Commission. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 79 in favour, two abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment accepted. [[Voice from the room: The whole.]] We are voting on the whole thing, ladies and gentlemen. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour, one abstained. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on investments in the construction or conversion of the Świnoujście watercourse to a depth of 12.5 meters. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. This is senate print No 469 A. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour, one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on investment in the construction or conversion of the Świnoujście watercourse to a depth of 12.5 metres. We are back to discussing item five of the agenda: the Working Time Act on IWT vessels. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have presented a draft resolution in which they bring the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 478 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Working Time Act on IWT vessels. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Security Act and the Act amending the Labour Code and some other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the minority of this committee have submitted a proposal for amendments to the Act - Senate printing No 471 A. First, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution taken in full, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 aims to make a correct reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour, one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] The amendment was accepted. Minority applications 1 and 2 must be voted together. Minority proposal No 1 aims to clarify the provisions on the determination of the payer in the event of the transition of workers to another employer under Article. 231 of the Labour Code. Minority proposal No 2 is the consequence of minority proposal No 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 51 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 19]] These conclusions were not accepted. Amendment 2 aims to clarify terminology. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Seventy-eight senators voted, 77 were in, one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 aims to make a correct reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 82 senators voted, 55 were in favour, 19 against, 8 abstentions. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act. A meeting of the Environment Committee took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 475 Z-revised. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Commission, at its meeting on 27 April 2017, after considering the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the previous day, i.e. 26 April 2017, referred to the debate on the amendment of the Act on Nature Protection in print No 475, supported the proposals contained in paragraphs 2, 5, 7, 9 and 10 of the table of proposals and requested that the Senate adopt them. Senator Robert Mammoth has withdrawn the proposals contained in points 1 and 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Robert Mammoth? Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka? [[No.]] [[No.]] No? Thank you very much. May I remind you that the senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes or no, Senator? [[No, thank you.]] Let me remind you that Senator Robert Mammothov has withdrawn his conclusions in items 1 and 8 in print No. 475 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? I don't see or hear any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution taken in full, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 has been withdrawn. [[Amendments 1 and 8 are withdrawn.]] Excuse me? Amendment one, eight? [[Amendments 1 and 8.]] Amendments 1 and 8, which means we are voting on the second. Amendment 2 amends the exemption from the obligation to remove the tree in respect of the species of trees which are protected and the length of the trunk of protected trees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 80 senators voted, 77 for, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 2 was accepted. Amendment 3 eliminates the possibility for the authority to issue a certificate of lack of grounds for objecting to the removal of the tree. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 25 for, 52 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 4 extends from 14 to 30 days the time limit by which the authority should examine in the event of a notification by the property owner of the intention to remove the tree. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 Senators voted, 26 votes against, 53 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 5 extends from 14 to 21 days the time limit by which the authority should examine in the event of a notification by the property owner of the intention to remove the tree. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 76 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 26]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 provides that the authority may object in the case of the location of a tree in areas covered by all forms of nature conservation referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 Nature Protection Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted against, 27 against, 51 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 7 clarifies that, in the event of an authorisation to remove the tree requested after the administrative decision in which the authority raised an objection, no fees for the removal of the tree will be fixed and charged. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 79 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 8 withdrawn. Amendment 9 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 77 for, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 10 sets a monthly deadline for the Minister for the Environment to issue the Regulation referred to in Article. Article 85 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4b Nature Protection Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 Senators voted, 77 votes against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 11 provides that the relevant provisions of the Nature Conservation Act will enter into force on the date of the entry into force of the implementing act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 54 votes against, 23 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 31]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 60 for, 1 against, 16 abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Nature Conservation. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for the adoption of this law without amendments of Senator Print No 492 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 54 for, 25 against. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period. We are back to discussing item 9 of the agenda: the act on combating doping in sport. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for this law to be adopted without amendments. It's a senate print no. 496 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the act on combating doping in sport. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Educational Information System and some other laws. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. It's a senate print no. 499 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Educational Information System and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Cinema and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 490 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u157	Dear Senators, the committee adopted The ratio of votes is 4 to 3 of the proposal to adopt the law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u158	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? This is Senator Marek Martynowski and Senator Czesław Ryszka. No. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We are voting on the motion of the Committee on Culture and Media to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 29 votes against, 51 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the bill, we are voting on the motion of Senators Marek Martynowski and Czesław Ryszko to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Now, I'm asking you to give me the results. 80 senators voted, 52 votes against, 27 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Cinema and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law on the establishment of the Western Cross. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad took place at the time of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 470 Z. I would like to ask Senator Jan Zarin to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Both committees met at the end of the meeting. Senator Marek Martynowski's motion to adopt the bill was received without amendment. This request was put to the vote. The majority of the members of the joint two committees accepted this proposal, although there were also senators who voted against and abstained. Both committees therefore request that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Marek Martynowski still want to speak? Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Marek Martynowski's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 76 votes, 1 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law establishing the Western Cross. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on readmission of persons, signed in Warsaw on 22 August 2016. The Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate prints Nos 473 A and 473 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the readmission of persons signed in Warsaw on 22 August 2016. We return to agenda item fourteen: second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity (recast) COM (2016) 864. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft opinion has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt the draft opinion in print No 482 S. We are voting on the draft opinion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 Senators voted, 68 for, 2 against, 7 Senators abstained. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted an opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity (recast) COM (2016) 864. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity (recast) COM (2016) 861. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft opinion has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt the draft opinion in print No 481 S. We are voting on the draft opinion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 69 for, 1 against, 9 abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted an opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity (recast) COM (2016) 861. We would like to return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and the Act on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 497 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 74 for, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 42]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Social Insurance Cash Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity and the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance Cash Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the election of the Chair of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions. The draft resolution, prepared by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, is included in print No 501. I would also like to inform you that the proposal for the election of Senator Robert Mątkow as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has been welcomed by the Senior Convention. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted today a draft resolution of the Senate, which I will read. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the election of the Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, elect Senator Robert Mątkow as Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. §2. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I would like to ask you, Marshal Michał Sewerynski, to take the floor and present Senator Robert Mamytkow's candidacy as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I strongly recommend Senator Robert Mammothov as chairman of the committee. His intellectual and moral qualities speak for this, and he also has experience in running the committee, because he has been vice-president of this committee for a long time and we have worked very well and practically on an ongoing basis. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u164	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any volunteers, I don't hear any calls. We are voting on the election of the Chair of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. I would remind you that voting on personal matters is secret and is done using sealed ballots. We proceed with a secret vote on the election of Senator Robert Mammoth as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and Petitions. To hold a secret vote, I appoint the secretaries: Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Waldemar Sługocki. In a moment, the senators will hand you the sealed ballots to the senators. I would like to inform you that only one sign is to be placed on the secret ballot. A ballot card with more than one mark on it or no mark on it shall be deemed to be invalid. After completing the ballots of the secret state, the senators who are read in alphabetical order will throw them into the urn. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I ask the senators of the secretaries to hand out secret ballots, and your senators to fill them out. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did all the senators receive the ballots? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] Yes. I ask Senator Robert Dowhan to read the names of the senators sequentially, and I ask the senators to post their names in the urn filled with secret ballots. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u165	Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Ambrozik, Anna Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Bielan, Grzegorz Bierecki, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Alexander Bobko, Richard Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Silence, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Gaweł, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Golba, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Thomas Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u166	Thank you very much. I see the senators are still throwing in the cards. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, have all the senators voted? Yes? Thank you very much. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. We're adjourned until 7:05 p.m. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 56 to 19 minutes 05]] I'm reopening the session. We return to agenda item 17: the election of the Chair of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I'm reading the results. Minutes of the secret ballot of 27 April 2017 on the election of Senator Robert Mątkow as Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Waldemar Sługocki state that in a secret vote on the election of Senator Robert Mamotkow as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions, 77 votes were cast, 76 votes valid, 58 Senators voted against 13 and five senators abstained. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Signed by Senators Robert Dowhan, Rafał Ambrozik and Waldemar Slugocki. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. I would like to ask President Robert Mammothov to approach the president's table. I would like to present you with a resolution. [[In here, in the middle.]] Mr. Senator, I very much congratulate you. [[The Marshal gives Senator Robert Mamątov the text of the resolution]] [[Applause]] [[Come on, let's drop him off.]] [[Try it, try it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. I'm sorry. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for your choice. I would just like to say that I will try to match my predecessor, Mr. Professor, Senator Michael Sewerynski, because this is a pattern worth pursuing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u168	Thank you very much, Senator. I congratulate the President once again. And we continue with the deliberations. Now... Pardon. May I have the marshal, please? [[Yes, of course.]] You're welcome. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u169	I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 40th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the order of the next meeting, convened on 16 and 17 May, will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. The statements may not last more than 5 minutes, the subject of which may be matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but shall not concern matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to make a statement on the next anniversary of the Constitution on 3 May. The Constitution of May 3 is an event in our history which shows that, in the face of higher necessity, we can achieve a radical reduction of our own rights and privileges in order to save freedom and identity. This is what John Paul said about the May Constitution in 1991. II: After two centuries we appreciate the full weight of this document: we read in it the truth about Poland, rooted in the past and at the same time in the future. And that is why the Constitution of May 3 at this very moment in history, in view of the imminent threat of loss of independence, was a prophetic and providence document. She made it impossible to take away Poland's real existence on the European continent, because it was written in the words of the Constitution on 3 May. And these words, having the power of the truth, proved to be more powerful than the threefold violence that fell upon the Republic. The words of this truth proved to be creative and creative. The sons and daughters of this land did not cease to believe in the renewal of its countenance under the breath of the Spirit who inspired the creators of the Constitution on 3 May. So what we celebrate every year on May 3rd is our identity. For we can describe it publicly and declare it. Before independence was taken from us, we gave the world, as others, after the Americans, important information: we are a nation! Despite cultural differences, despite the multitude of languages, creeds, worldviews, political options and interest groups, we are a nation that must not be erased from the map of the world, invalidated, ignored, ignored. It is also time to ease, not to ignite the current disputes. We have a story that gives us many moments to pride and glory. On May 3, 1791, he was one of them. Appreciating each other's potential, we wish each other well. Let the joy of being a Pole flow through us. This with all our heart we wish all our countrymen Rafal the locksmith and Antoni Szymański. [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Stanislaw Gogach, please speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The senator's statement is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Minister! They asked me for help from farmers and authorities of Ostrów Lubelski, as well as other parts of Lublin and the Lublin Agricultural Chamber. The problem concerns the enormous damage caused by wild boars in field crops, which causes farmers to suffer multi-million-dollar losses. According to the interested parties, these huge losses are due to the presence of a very large population of feral pigs in Polish lands, including of course in Lublin. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, On the contrary, the population of wild boars in the Lublin Voivodeship is growing steadily, and the damage caused by wild boars in field crops is increasing. In turn compensations for losses caused by wild boars, as they say interested, are very low. An increasing population of feral pigs in the assessment of the concerned shows poor planning and slowness in the implementation of hunting plans. The current form of firing is inefficient. On the basis of the Act on Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, I ask the Minister on behalf of interested farmers from Ostrów Lubelski and other towns of Lublin affected by the damage caused by the large population of feral pigs to inform me of what the Minister has taken or plans to take measures to ensure that farmers do not suffer the losses indicated. Stanisław Gogacz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-27-senat-40-2.u173	Thank you very much, Senator. There will be no more statements made by your senators. The list of speakers has run out. I therefore inform you that the minutes of the 40th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. Forty sittings of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office are closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you very much. [[End of session at 19 minutes 18]]
