ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] We call on the secretaries of today's proceedings: Mr Schreiber, Mr Duszek, Mr Myrch and Mr King. The first part of the session will be Mr Łukasz Schreiber and Mr Duszek. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Łukasz Schreiber and Wojciech Król. I consider the minutes of the 43rd session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws, print Nos 1423, 1555 and 1555-A - Third reading, - Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws, prints No 1491, 1591 and 1591-A - third reading. At its 43rd meeting, the Sejm did not vote on the rejection requests at first reading: - the parliamentary bill on a single monetary allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2017, contained in print No 1545, - the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services, contained in print No. 1564. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering these votes. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the employment promotion law and labour market institutions and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and some other laws. This is printing number 1620. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. A group of citizens submitted a proposal to put national education reform issues under a referendum. This is print number 1571. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending the Law on the rules for implementing cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective 2014 and 2020 and certain other laws. This is printing number 1636. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of the project. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u2	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, I would like to draw your attention and ask your marshal for a break and to explain to the High House why there are several points on the agenda, and you are voting on this one now, while you are voting on the remaining points at the end of the debate on the last day of the vote. The opposition raised by the Modern is no different from that raised by other clubs. These requests for settlement, these votes on the items at issue, should be held, firstly, always at the beginning - the vote on our proposals always ends - and secondly, certainly together, and not so that those that fit you are settled at the beginning, and those that do not fit you, are settled on Thursday or Friday. [[Applause]] It's a business that's been going on for a long time. Therefore, I would ask your marshal that we adopt the principle of a normal democratic parliament: if we establish an agenda, then the points at issue are settled at the beginning. The parliamentary majority, of course, has the right to reject e.g. Our request for information, but decency requires that he be considered at the beginning of the session, not when everyone is on their way home. This is the first thing. Mr Marshal, you are voting on the point of dispute that we are hearing this morning, and the request for information we are asking for and which is also a point of dispute has been with you since March, because it was in March that we submitted a request for inclusion on the agenda of this item on which we will vote. I hope that the marshal, who is in charge of the Rules of Procedure, and who so often reminds us of this regulation, will also take into account the fact that the conclusions... that Members who apply are equal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u3	I would like to inform the High House and the Member that there is only one point on this agenda. This is the one I introduced. [[Oh, Sławek, Sławek, you talked and you pulled out.]] On the other hand, other items are not contentious points, they are requests for inclusion on the agenda, but the decision of the Marshal of the Sejm is always four months old, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[What's the hurry about that?]] This haste - as I said at the meeting of the Senior Convention and the Bureau - is the result of the Prime Minister's letter requesting that this draft act be given an urgent procedure, that is, a government project. [[We're asking for an emergency too.]] [[I can write.]] I would not, Your Sejm, wish to discuss with the Member... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But don't hold back.]] ...though a very nice discussion sometimes takes place between us. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the rules for implementing cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective 2014 and 2020 and some other laws, print no. 1636, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 323 Members voted. 185 voted against - 135, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in a joint discussion on the 2016 report of the National Radio and Television Council and information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention has accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting... [[Voices from the room: Objection! Objection!]] [[Member Iwona Sledzińska-Katarasinska: Mr Marshal, opposition!]] Wait a minute, there's an objection, right? [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Yes.]] [[But against what?]] Who's objecting? Member? Then tell me what you're objecting to. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Against the time of 5 minutes for two reports.]] Please submit this objection.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I really do not think that the reports of two important institutions such as the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council, which will be celebrating the year of existence tomorrow, can be discussed in 5 minutes. Originally, in the script, Mr. Marshal predicted 10 minutes, and I request that you return until then, unless this is the way you weigh these institutions. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] It is not that it is possible to summarize in 5 minutes the year of action of the constitutional body and the second, although unconstitutional, but one on which the Polish public media depend. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u5	I repeat, because you probably didn't hear me. I was talking about the Bureau's proposal to listen to ten minutes of club statements and five minutes of circles. This is a proposal from the Bureau. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Now you have read the Marshal well.]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Mr Marshal was mistaken.]] [[You did not understand the marshal.]] Did I make a mistake? Oh, I'm so sorry. [[Mr. Marshal said right, you have to listen.]] Anyway, do I understand that the objection has been withdrawn? Good. [[No need to talk, just listen.]] I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the effectiveness of Polish labour offices, which was requested by Kukiz Club.15 The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. Members shall submit their formal conclusions before reading the messages. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, June 20th, is International Refugee Day. For many months we have been discussing how Poland should behave in the face of the tragedy of hundreds of thousands of people who are fleeing war, persecution, hunger. The government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, questions the commitments made by the Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, a representative of the legal Polish government. I wonder how the Prime Minister will treat the next government, which will question the commitments made by the Prime Minister in an international forum. [[Because this government is legal.]] Modern thinks that we should behave decently, that we should fulfil our obligations by bringing refugees to Poland - not economic immigrants, only refugees who flee from the war - and after checking their identity and making this operation safe, we must take steps to fulfil our commitments and not go to an open war with the European Union. I would also like to draw the attention of Members of Law and Justice, who repeatedly refer to the position of the Episcopate, that the Episcopate already in June 2016 proposed the organisation of humanitarian corridors. I wonder what the Polish government did to actually take this effort and bring to Poland in a safe way refugees from countries under war. That's not what happened. What do we have in return? Information and fraud about the fact that Poland accepted a million refugees from Ukraine, which is simply a lie, a fraud. If you believe that you are dealing with refugees from the East, I ask what you have been doing for the past six months several hundred refugees from Chechnya who cannot get to Poland. I was a Vice-Veteran of Małopolska... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u7	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u8	We brought several tens of thousands of refugees from Chechnya to Poland and nobody got hurt.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u9	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are currently abusing the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u10	I'm asking if on a day like today we should bend over... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u11	Mr President, for the second time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you do abuse the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. It wasn't a formal conclusion. Member Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's hard to say right now, High Izbo, because what's happening right now in this courtroom is insulting the dignity of this House. [[Voices from the hall: What's going on?]] You guys are acting like you're at a diner. [[At the Owl's?]] You will not be able to sweep under the carpet of this pathology that takes place in the Police Department, in Polish police stations. You won't shut up to the Poles, you won't shut up to the parliamentarians. [[Applause]] [[Scandal, what are you talking about?]] Mr. Marshal addressed to the committee the information of the Minister of Home Affairs regarding the next death at the Polish police station. And I understand that he will not vote on the citizens' platform's request to extend this item today during plenary sessions to provide full information about what is happening in the police and Polish police stations. I understand you're not going to vote on this because the room looks exactly what it looks like. But we promise as a Civic Platform club: we will return with a full-time convention law instead of your monthly bill. [[Applause]] [[Andrzej, you will never come back.]] I hold your Marshal's word that a permanent subcommittee to monitor, among other things, will be recreated. cases that relate to human rights, including the Police Office of Internal Affairs, because they existed in the previous term. You committed yourself to Mr Muiznieks when he visited Poland. I hold your Marshal's word, because this is what the public requires of us, Parliament, to oversee the police. [[Applause]] And finally, Mr. Marshal, I would like to say that since there will not be this point at this meeting, we will demand full information at the nearest Polish police station about what is happening. [[Applause]] [[It's bricked up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u13	I would like to thank you, Mr President, but I would like to say that this is another statement, not a formal proposal. [[That's because you're not going to put the formal proposal to the vote right now.]] Mr Stefan Niesiołowski. I would only ask you to make a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u14	I'll try very hard, Marshal, so your request will be met. I would like to remind you of what Mr Meysztowicz has already said, and for this I thank you that today is International Refugee Day and some local governments in Poland, for example. in Bydgoszcz or in Sopot, contrary to the scandalous actions and disgraceful statements of the Prime Minister - I will remind you of the last unworthy statement in Oświęcim, not only the unworthy Prime Minister, but no decent... [[What are you saying?]] ...no man at all, so that in Oświęcim something so disgraceful could be said by the Prime Minister of the Polish Government... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] Your banging on the desks and your rudeness will not change anything here, especially Mr Rozonec, who does not have the habit of giving a voice on the committee. I thought this was the new PiS method, but Mr. Marshal gave me the floor, and thank you. Therefore, at a previous meeting near the European Union of Democrats, the government asked for information on why the government is blocking these initiatives. If you don't want to be led by your vengeful villainy, why are you disturbing local governments who agree to receive refugees? Such resolutions, as I said, were made. In view of the above, the European Union of Democrats kindly addresses Mr Marshal on the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the break and convening of the Seniors Convention in order to put government information on the agenda, why the government of the Republic of Poland uses such a tactic, which is not to accept, which, so to speak, Mrs Szydło inefficiently and lamely tried to explain, and why it blocks and inhibits the decent actions of local authorities in this matter. I have here a resolution of the Bydgoszcz government upon request... [[Non-regulatory proposal.]] [[Voice from the room: Caryca.]] Keep your voice down, Mr. Injun, keep your voice down, Mr. Catherine, keep your voice down, Mr. Catherine the Great. ...organization of the Ster For Democracy in Bydgoszcz and many other local governments in this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you to make a decision. Thank you very much. Mr. Catherine the Great, don't disturb me, you little piss-off. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u15	Thank you. I just need to draw your attention... [[Mr. Marshal, the counterclaim.]] ...I must point out to you that this also does not fall within the categories of the formal proposal. This case... [[I tried a little harder.]] But I can't qualify your speech as a formal motion. I would ask you, however, not to abuse the formula of formal proposals in order to make statements that are not linked to the agenda. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - Infrastructure - hour 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - to State Control, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, at 3 p.m. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development, together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 2.30 p.m., - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Public Finance - h.m. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 3.30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 16, - Economics and Development together with the Commission for Energy and the Treasury - h.m. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Health-- hour. 16, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 17, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 6:15 p.m. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for Catholic Social Science - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Courthouses - hour 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: National Security - h.m. 10.45, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Polish Education - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Family and Senior Policy - h.m. 11.15, - Parliamentary Team of Friends of Oder - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group on equality and social justice - at 5 p.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: diabetes mellitus - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Energy Winter Package - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Polish Agriculture - h.m. 15.15, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 4:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Volunteer Workers - h.m. 17.45, - Parliamentary Team for Decent, Community and Inclusive Organising in 2018 of the 100th anniversary of the Recovering of Independence by Poland - hour. 18. Parliamentary Panel on diabetes invites you to the opening of the exhibition.We challenge diabetes. We are fighting for a longer life with diabetes in the main lobby on the ground floor at hours. 13.50. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u17	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending certain laws related to family support systems (print No 1625). I will ask the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska to justify the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For many years, Polish families were not cared for, thinking that the family would be able to cope with the realities of the free market. However, the family is not an economic entity - it is a living organism, and it adapts much longer to change, and it can be more painful to feel it. The negative situation of the family affects the condition of the whole nation. This is a far-reaching perspective, but the demographic crisis, which is the result, among others. The state's neglect of the family is already affecting Poland, and it has been for many years. Only the current government - the government prime minister Beata Szydło... [[A lie, a lie!]] ...the government of Law and Justice - appreciated the family, recognized that the family was the foundation of the nation and should be taken care of. Our government openly says that investing in the family is an investment in the future of the nation, the best investment, an investment with a high rate of return, and that the most important value of the nation is family. On behalf of the Government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, I would like to present to the High House a bill amending certain laws relating to family support schemes. A year ago, I presented to the High House a draft law on State aid to raise children, a family of 500+. It was a groundbreaking programme of family policy. I already announced to you, the High House, that, in cooperation with the communities of practitioners, experts, local authorities and local authorities, we will review the instruments that are currently functioning in Poland in terms of their effectiveness in order to introduce and develop a strategic comprehensive action plan to improve the lives of families who raise children. Today is the time for our announcements to be realized more than a year ago. The proposal for new regulations is the next point of development of an effective and effective family policy to encourage Polish families to have more children. The draft law amending the existing regulations is the result of the government's review of family support schemes in April. These amendments concern the following laws: the Law on State aid in raising children, the Law on family benefits, the Law on assistance to persons entitled to maintenance, the Law on the care of children under the age of 3 years and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family. The main objectives of the scheme remain unchanged. We focus on eliminating undesirable phenomena. The assessment of the impact of the introduction of the 500+ family programme so far is clearly positive. The programme pursues the three basic objectives that have been set before it. These are investments in the family, poverty reduction among children and young people and the pro-natalist objective. Thanks to the program, many families finally felt safe and finally felt that the state appreciated their efforts and dedication. Many families say that thanks to the program she regained her dignity, raised her forehead. For this reason, it is not proposed to change the basic principles of the "Family of 500+" programme, so it will continue to be a non-taxable benefit of 500 PLN paid per child up to 18 years of age. In the case of income under PLN 800 or PLN 1200 - in the case of a disabled child in the family - the benefit is also payable to the first child in the family. So these changes that we are proposing to you in this bill will concern the elimination of a few, albeit undesirable phenomena. What were they? Well, they consisted, among other things. on the adjustment of income by some parents to the income criterion which entitles them to provide education to the first child and to declare that they are not in line with the fact that they are single parents and that they are not resident in Poland. I will refer to this first element: excluding the application of the income loss mechanism for a period of 3 months. The answer to this first irregularity is the proposal to exclude the application of the income loss mechanism in the event of loss of employment or other employment, including non-agricultural economic activity, by the person concerned and the re-employment of that person within a short period of time - 3 months - in the same employer, employer or contracting entity, or the re-starting of non-agricultural economic activities and to change the way in which the income of non-agricultural economic activities to be determined is to be taxed on the basis of the provisions on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by natural persons. On the basis of a study by the Institute of Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister will announce revenue by means of a notice. Another mechanism we want to change, too. Well, we want to eliminate misconceptions about raising a child alone by requiring child support from a second parent. It will be possible to eliminate fraud related to non-true statements of single parenting by requiring child support from a second parent, since, in accordance with the constitutional principle of subsidiarity, child care should only be granted to a single parent after the possibility of obtaining maintenance from the second parent has been exhausted. May I remind you that the same solution has been in place for more than 12 years in the case of the granting of a family allowance, and for these 12 years it has been implemented in this form. We propose to accept this as a solution also in the case of educational provision. [[No way. Something good was before.]] Another issue is the verification of the right to provide for the place of residence and the obligation to provide personal explanations. According to the Law on State Aid to Raising Children, an educational benefit is payable if the applicant or recipient resides in Poland for the period during which he is to receive an educational benefit. Hence, among others. changes that we propose in the field of verification of the fulfilment of the conditions which entitle us to provide education, and in particular the condition concerning residence in Poland, because this benefit is not entitled to migrants who have permanently left Poland and who reside abroad. The competent authority paying the benefit in case of doubt may call on the person receiving the benefit to provide adequate personal explanations. The payment of the parental benefit shall be suspended if the person receiving the benefit refuses to grant or does not give an explanation within the prescribed time limit. In case of clarification, the parental benefit will be paid from the month in which the explanations were received until the end of the period during which the decision was taken and during which the parental benefit is entitled. At this point, I would like to stress that, at the same time, we are equiping local authorities with very important IT tools, which will allow for verification of the condition of residence of applicants for or recipients of benefits. This applies to both parental and family benefits as well as maintenance fund benefits. The changes are a continuation and development of the existing and expected results of IT solutions obliging municipalities to obtain and verify themselves certain of the persons applying for these benefits. These changes will be applied for the first time in determining the right to benefits for the period beginning on 1 October 2017. Here I would like to point out that teaching could have been done online. The ease of applying from abroad creates opportunities that were not previously available if applications were not submitted online and were only made in paper form. Therefore, there is a proposal to equip local authorities with this possibility. What are the other changes? It is the alternate care, the coordination of the social security system in voivodships and the cancellation of the rise in income criteria and the early submission of applications. In addition, this proposal clarifies certain provisions of the Law on State aid for the raising of children, including those concerning the establishment of the right to provide education to children under the care of alternate parents of non-family parents, and harmonises and clarifies the provisions of the Law on family benefits and the Law on assistance to persons entitled to maintenance. What else, what other changes does the project envisage? We propose to transfer from January of the new year 2018 from local governments of voivodships to the competence of voivodships of family benefits, maintenance fund benefits and educational benefits implemented in connection with the coordination of social security systems. I would like to point out here that this task has always been carried out as a task commissioned by the government, i.e. this is a task that the government can carry out itself or may commission e.g. Local governments. Cancellation of the increase in income criteria for family benefits planned from 1 November 2017 and the increase in family benefits. Another change, which is important for beneficiaries, for families, important - speeding up the deadline for applying for education. Since 2018, applications for parental benefits, family benefits and benefits from the maintenance fund for new allowance periods can be submitted by electronic means as early as 1 July, but this is the following year, while at the moment the traditional route from 1 August, as until now, i.e. from 1 August, can be submitted online, traditional, traditional and paper applications can be submitted, and there is a codification of this deadline. From 1 August on the portal of the Ministry of Emp@tia we launch modernised - and in the form of user-friendly wizards - tools for submitting applications online, online, for all types of family benefits, I stress, for all types of family benefits, maintenance benefits and educational provision. This means a complete digitisation of the process of filling in and applying for these benefits. This is very important for families who have many responsibilities, there is no need sometimes to wait in line, but it does not rule out... If anybody wants to do so, she can always do so by a traditional road - go to a social assistance centre or family benefits department and make this most traditional way, often using the help of a prepared worker when submitting an application. The incentive for parents to decide whether to have children is also to provide more childcare facilities under the age of 3. We are saying that our goal is to improve accessibility and reduce the cost of child care. Our solutions will facilitate the setting up and running of childcare institutions under the age of 3 and are designed to reduce the costs of operating facilities. This should involve a reduction in child care fees. This also gives us the opportunity to reconcile, combine the professional responsibilities of parents who raise children. The bill aims to increase the number of places in nursery or children's clubs and to reduce the price of children's stay in institutions, I stress, without any reduction in the quality of care and safety of children who are staying in these nursing places. [[Luckily, you guys pulled out.]] In 2010 there were 511 daycare and daycare units with more than 32 thousand. places of care. Currently, there are around 3.7 thousand. care institutions - crèches, children's clubs, day care providers - which have a total of 100,000. places of care. It is more appropriate to compare this number of places of care than even the number of institutions, because as many of us remember, earlier daycare facilities were large, very numerous, today they are much smaller, more intimate, they create good conditions for childcare. So the right number of places is here, but it is also meaningful that out of this number of crèches operating in 2010 we reached the number of 3.7 thousand. an institution of care. As we estimate, in terms of Polish children under 3 years of age covered by this care, the percentage is 11.2% , we are talking about children up to the age of 3 years, in 2010 it was 2.6 percentage points. [[And in 2015?]] But we also have to remember that still, and that's probably surprising for many of us, in more than 70% Polish municipalities lack any institution of care - 70% municipalities. In our strategy, the Moravian Prime Minister's strategy for responsible development assumes that by 2030 there will be care facilities for 33% of children under the age of 3. This can easily be calculated - in this time frame more than 100,000 would have to be created. Places. Deficiencies, especially in these numerous municipalities, make it impossible for many parents to reconcile family responsibilities with working life, and sometimes this is an obstacle, an important obstacle to deciding that a new member, a new child, will appear in the family. What expenses do we propose for this purpose? In order to improve this situation, it is proposed, first of all, to increase the expenditure of the state budget to support the development of crèches, children's clubs and day care institutions from the current PLN 151 million to PLN 500 million. This amount of 0.5 billion - 250 million will come from the state budget and the other 250 million from the Labour Fund. Of these measures, I am talking here about the 250 million from the Labour Fund, it would be financed by a programme to support the professional activation of persons who are forced to give up their jobs due to the need to take care of their children under 3 years of age and because of the lack of care institutions they could benefit from. Support from this source of funding, I am talking about the Labour Fund, would be addressed to municipalities in those districts where high unemployment is present, e.g. unemployment at 150% the national average, in order to activate women with children and to increase the number of childcare facilities in the territory concerned. These measures would therefore promote direct professional activation. We must bear in mind that one of the reasons why young parents are inactive is sometimes the need to take care of the youngest children due to the insufficient number of places in care institutions. And it should also be made clear here that in a situation where, for example, there is no self-government care centre, there is only a day care facility run by a private body, payment for the stay of the child is so high that it is an important obstacle for parents to use these places. We also need to remember that since 70% The municipalities do not have any of these institutions, this also applies to municipalities with high unemployment, areas where earnings are significantly lower than in large agglomerations. We estimate that within a few years, thanks to these measures, because these measures are not a one-year programme, there will be a lot of places to be created, which will also reduce the fees that parents bear so far. In our view, these solutions will contribute to ensuring the high territorial accessibility of these institutions, and will enable parents to choose the form of care they provide for the youngest children - we are talking about choosing whether it will be institutional care, whether it will be a nursery, a children's club, whether it will be a day care provider - or the form of such non-institutional care, we are talking about nannies. What do we want to make it easier to create new places of care? These include the abolition of the requirement to have at least two premises in a nursery intended for the stay of the child, the subsequent exemption of nursery and children's clubs from charges on property owned by the State Treasury or local government units and the exemption of nursery and children's clubs from property tax, the extension of the catalogue of entities capable of establishing nursery and children's clubs and the hire of daily carers. We are talking about individuals other than municipalities and also public institutions, so he will be able to e.g. voivodship local government will also be able to powiats, so if it is not local units. It is proposed that children can stay in children's clubs for up to 10 hours as in daycare, but clubs will be smaller and more intimate. There will be up to 30 children, no more than 30 children. Safety first. In order to increase the safety of children in nursery and children's clubs, it is proposed to introduce nutritional standards, the obligation for carers and volunteers to provide regular first-aid training, as well as the possibility for parents to appoint a parent's council, which will be able to inspect the nursery rooms and the documentation on meals given to children, and to present and consult proposals for activities in these institutions. In the draft law, we propose that these new provisions, which I mentioned here regarding this care, should apply from 1 January 2018. We also want to make the Large Family Card more attractive, increase the right group and improve the availability of the card. Thus, the project also includes amendments to the Large Family Charter Act granting families a number of rights, discounts: statutory discounts and commercial discounts. The changes are intended to make the Large Family Charter more attractive and adapt it to the latest digital technologies. In practice, this will mean introducing a large family card document in the form of applications on mobile devices, tablets, smartphones. It is this application that will allow you to use the card as soon as it has been granted by the governor, mayor or president of the city without having to wait for the printout of this plastic medium, which has been in force so far, is in force and will be in force. The parents will have all the children's cards on their phone. The new regulations would apply from 1 January 2018. This is not the end of our proposal to change the Big Family Charter. At the beginning of the following year, i.e. not 2018 but 1 January 2019, the provisions granting the rights of the Large Family Charter would enter into force also to those parents who ever had three children to depend on. The principle of equal treatment by public authorities would therefore be implemented. I am addressing the High House, my fellow Members, because I am also a parliamentarians, including the opposition, asking for a good, substantive debate on the bill. The family is an extraordinary value and I am glad that these proposals are intended to significantly improve the support that is addressed to families. The Prime Minister often stresses that family policy is an investment. We invest in people. We're investing in people because we're building a strong country. This really is an investment worth the money that is spent on it. I would like to ask you to have a careful, calm, substantive discussion. And I hope that, given the well-being of Polish families, which - I believe deeply - lies at the heart of everyone present and even those who will come to the vote... I hope that you will support the package of changes we have proposed, which we have worked very carefully and carefully on. I ask the High House and all parliamentary clubs to support our proposals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. High Izbo! I would like to say hello to the group present at the gallery at the University of the Third Age in Biłgoraj, who is visiting Mrs Genowefa Tokarska. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] High Izbo! The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Beata Mazurek will be the first, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the government draft law amending certain laws related to the family support system included in print No 1625. High Izbo! The new opening of the family-friendly policy of the Law and Justice Government is the 500+ programme. More than a year ago, he introduced a universal, untaxed, non-taxed, and without any conditions, educational provision of PLN 500. Educational provision is long-term support, for the first time direct money to families, in many cases reducing their poverty. By the end of April 2017 more than PLN 25 billion had been sent to Polish families. Nearly 4 million children under the age of 18. More than 2.5 million families use it. The bill submitted, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, is another point in the development of effective and effective family policy, the main objective of which is to encourage Polish families to have more children, to remove barriers to their possession, and to introduce further facilitations in their upbringing. The draft law is the implementation of the proposals and recommendations contained in the review of family support schemes, where there are proposals for changes in the area of both education and family benefits, the collection of child support, care for children up to the age of 3 and the Charter of the Large Family. In these areas, the government proposes to introduce changes that will eliminate undesirable effects observed during the first year of implementation of the And so it should be mentioned that the main principles of the 500+ family scheme will remain unchanged. It will continue to be an untaxed benefit of 500 PLN, paid up to 18 years of age per child, with income criterion 800 and 1200 PLN net per person in the family respectively, for one child, of course. The proposed changes in the area of family benefits, of course, concern, among others.: the exclusion of the use of the income loss mechanism when the person concerned loses employment or other employment and will be rehired with the same employer within 3 months or starts a non-agricultural business, changes in the way in which the income of non-agricultural entrepreneurs is determined, demands from persons claiming to raise their children alone with child support from the second parent or the right to provide education to children under the care of alternate parents. The second area or second level of change concerns what will change in family benefits and the maintenance fund. Since 1 November 2017, the government proposes to cancel the increase in income criteria for family benefits and to increase family benefits. The government also proposes that from 1 August 2017 it be possible to handle all requests for 500+ and family benefits online. The next area is the proposed changes in daycare. Their aim is to increase the number of places in crèches or children's clubs and lower prices for children's stay in these institutions without any deterioration of the quality of care provided. This is to be served, among others. increase of expenditure from the current PLN 151 million to PLN 500 million or e.g. exemption of crèches and children's clubs from property charges, which are owned by the State Treasury or local government. The next area of change concerns the Charter of the Large Family, which has already been mentioned by the Minister. The change consists in introducing an electronic Large Family Card without having to wait for a printout of a plastic card. Most importantly, it is proposed that the rights of the Large Family Charter should also be extended to parents who have ever had at least three children. This will be in the opinion of the government, but also in our view, the implementation of the principles of equal treatment by public authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! In our view, these solutions are very good, expected and desirable solutions. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this proposal be directed to further work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u21	Thank you very much. The Civic Platform will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club by Mrs Magdalena Kochan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister has just called on us to have a fair debate about this project, which amends 19 laws. It is difficult to debate meaningfully within 5 minutes for club appearances. You also did not want a public consultation on this law. The joint government and local government committee was discussing this project when it had already given a number of sejm printing. And it is hardly surprising that the joint committee of government and local government has given this draft law a negative opinion. Why negative? This is because the objective, which is otherwise appropriate, of reducing the costs of daycare, is to be achieved by depriving local governments of the possibility of charging local fees and taxes. The right goal, the right direction, even the right one. These taxes can be reduced, leaving the local authorities to decide on this matter in their competence and, if you wish, government money should be used to compensate for the revenue lost from it. You are moving the coordination of the family benefits insurance system from the marshal offices to the voivodeship office. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has not yet entered into force, it is not yet in force, today the first reading, and the voivodeships are already implementing this law on their territory. The 25 people who were employed to coordinate these systems in the Marshal's office in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship received a proposal from your voivodeship to move to work. 7 people decided, the other people didn't. This is the act before it enters into force. How can we be serious about the Minister's appeal for a debate, a fair debate on this issue? You insult voivodship authorities in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, saying that they have failed to fulfil this task since 2004. The checks you introduced in this area were only interested in one thing: when the application was received and when it was considered. On the way there was no information that, after all, the Polish Code of Administrative Procedure neither in Germany nor in England nor in France nor in any country other than ours. Therefore, the answers to questions concerning requests addressed to these institutions by the marshal's offices and staff were when the officials of the relevant states simply wished. I believe that you should apologize to local governments for this justification. It is unacceptable to deprive them of further competences. You are talking about the fact that this is a family support law, and in fact it makes access to benefits both 500+ and the maintenance fund difficult not only for single parents but also for the poorest families. After freezing the income thresholds and raising the lowest wage, there will be a situation where a single parent who is employed and receives the lowest wage in the country will not receive a benefit of 500+, and certainly not a mom who demands alimony in court, as you are telling her now, when 9 PLN exceeds her income entitlement to a maintenance fund. Is that an easy thing to do? That's touching the weakest. However, there are increased controls, statements under security, monitoring, etc. I am no longer talking about the situation in which the voivodeship has an appeal against the decision, attention, to the self-government appeal college. I do not know what the legal system in Poland says, but in my opinion it is It's either bad will or incompetence. Both cases are unacceptable. You're talking about making it easier to benefit from these benefits. I think you're making it harder, and that makes it harder for the weakest. By the way, people with disabilities. The caretaker of persons with disabilities, independent, can only take one benefit regardless of the number of persons he takes care of. As I am with people with disabilities, my question is this: What is the purpose of reducing the employment threshold so far required? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 6% persons with disabilities up to 2% for universities, schools, etc.? If you're doing this, it means you're either incompetent again or you don't understand the reasons why the State Fund for Rehabilitation People with Disabilities was created.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u23	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u24	Excuse me, just one more sentence, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u25	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u26	Well, we see some good things that you want to do with this bill, but I don't have time to discuss these good things, and the bad things that I mentioned before are the reason why I'm making a motion for the Marshal to reject the law at first reading and to return to the solutions that are good in other legislative initiatives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Chrobak will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! The 500+ programme is something that in the assessment of the Kukiz club15 should be cultivated and developed because it generates positive effects on two fundamental levels. Firstly, it stimulates demand, which has a major impact on economic indicators. Secondly, it is a factor that stimulates natural growth. In this sense, the project provides for some minor, albeit insufficient corrections. As a parliamentary club, we note the need for deeper changes. First of all, a valorisation clause is needed. The amount of 500 PLN should be valued, because against the background of Europe, which many so eagerly rely on, it is a significantly different rate from the standards. Each year tens of thousands of beneficiaries will lose their entitlement to benefits because the older of two children will reach adulthood. If we want to encourage families with one child to choose another after years, we need to provide 500+ until graduation of higher education on a similar basis to maintenance. This is important because, in modern health conditions, women can also be born safely in the area of the 40s, who have already raised their first child, but want it to continue to be educated to study. The Kukiz Club15 is therefore in favour of deeper changes, because only such will preserve the undoubted achievements of the programme. Such changes will also protect 500+ against the obvious intentions of the Civic and Modern Platform, which - although no longer speaking loudly - talk about the complete liquidation of the programme. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Member, please don't lie to me.]] I'll mention the last one here...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u29	I ask the Member to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u30	...a brilliant platform idea to take 500+ from families... [[Don't lie to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u31	Let me...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u32	...in which we have an unemployed person, or families who really need them most. [[A lie, a disgrace.]] The project itself, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, is, as I said, a little correction. Madam, I did not disturb you, as you said.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u33	Madam, please stop interrupting the speech by the Member who presents the position of the club. [[As long as she's telling the truth.]] Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u34	It provides for solutions to prevent abuse. Positive are solutions that prevent foreign residents from using the programme. Corrections should be considered in the right direction to prevent situations where, in order to obtain a benefit, and contrary to the actual situation, it is declared that the child is being raised alone in order to exclude the other parent from the family composition and income. It is difficult to criticise all solutions, and such a project provides for an increase in the number of childcare places for children up to the age of 3 and consequently for parents to combine professional roles with family life. However, there are some reservations that can not be lost in the field of view, among others. by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, associated with the risk of lowering the standard of care in daycare, and consequently the safety of children. Changes in the facilitation of access to the Large Family Charter should also be assessed positively. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, we are asking that the project also be sent to the committee of local government. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To sum up, Kukiz15 will support the project and expect further development and consolidation of the program, because there are options in the Seym, Mr. Petru, Mr. Schetyna, who are changing their legs to eliminate it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Scandal! I wonder where you got that information.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u35	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club, Mrs Monika Rosa will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many factors influence the decision to have children. It is a professional activity, personal aspirations, education, place of residence, developed institutional care for children. The government has allocated a huge amount to the programme, which is a financial transfer - a one-dimensional, uniform view of family policy. And from this program, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no children. This is an untapped opportunity for a real, good and multidimensional family policy. Today's project focuses on correcting errors that were in the process of the 500+ bill. After a year, you can see how many flaws he had. They were related to the rapid process and implementation of the programme. Some of them can be improved by this bill, but a significant part is due to the erroneous assumptions of the bill about 500+. First of all, high childhood. Today, in developed society, high fertility is achieved by women's professional activity and access to institutional care for children. The 500+ program counterbalances the proportions. He says quit your job, ladies and gentlemen, and the state will hold you. The 500+ programme does not encourage young people to have their first child. At the same time, you have eliminated support for families who are seeking an in vitro baby. It's a social issue. The programme reduced income inequalities, but this could have been achieved differently, without spending huge amounts on children who come from wealthy families. If the 500+ programme was to be a social programme, it did not focus on the structural causes of poverty, and extreme poverty in Poland is mainly linked to the place in the labour market, it affects to the highest extent people, children whose parents do not have a job, and in Poland there are almost 10% kids whose parents don't work. Lack of work is not only a lack of income, but it is also a lack of patterns on which children can rely. Early high-quality education helps to reduce poverty and inequality, while you have eliminated the obligation to send children at the age of 6 to school, there are no crèches in 3/4 municipalities, and the chaos of education reform will continue to be felt for a long time. It's a matter of justice. The net threshold of PLN 800 excludes single parents who earn the lowest national income from the program. A single mother who goes to work gets the lowest domestic, no longer gets that money. These children are the most disadvantaged. Deactivate. It is in this bill that you are trying to remove to some extent the effects of deactivation and the grey zone, but it will not be 100% effective. The data is absolute. According to the Labour Force Survey, according to the CSO, in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to the fourth quarter of 2015, the number of active women decreased by 122 thousand, of which by 90,000. in the group of 20 and 44 years, the most in the group of 35 and 40 years. The rigid income criterion instead of the gold rule creates a poverty trap. People do not take action or give up increases, extra work to get 500 zlotys. The issue of the law itself is primarily the issue of loss of income for local governments - uncompensated by the government - due to the elimination of local fees for daycare and kindergarten. This is a completely senseless transfer of competences from local governments to voivodships. It's a maintenance issue. Here again, the weakest will be wronged, because not only is the collection of alimony very low, it will still have to be proved in court. It's about the quality of daycare. Of course, the number of crèches is very important, but also their quality. Loosening the criteria, i.e. eliminating two nursery rooms and the little ones' clubs, will not be conducive to the development of children. Reduction of subsidies for the employment of nannies. It is a popular form of childcare, and once again you will push it into a gray area. The lack of subsidisation or reduction of this subsidisation will make more and more of these people employed in black. Pro-family policy - effective and decent - is very necessary in Poland, but it must be based on various programs and on various sources, it must solve specific problems. That is why the Modern Group has set up a Parliamentary Group for. The Active Family Program. Family activity is the ability to reconcile parental roles with professional roles. First of all, it is a number of facilitations for women in combining work and child training, but it is also an equal approach to the role of father and mother, e.g. by the same number of days or months in the case of childcare leave. It's a matter of access to daycare and kindergarten. An active family means appreciating a job, not living without a job. That's $3,000. zł tax relief for each child, counting from the first child. Here we appreciate those children whose parents work. An active family is not possible without active women, [[♪ The bell ♪]] without removing the barriers they face in the labour market without making working time more flexible. An active family is taking care of the health of women, the comfort of the mother from the very beginning, it is the standards of perinatal care. Regardless of the number of amendments to be tabled in this draft law, this project will not eliminate basic defects and barriers to childhood. This program allowed him to win the election, but this is his only success. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u38	Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws related to family support systems, print no. 1625. Ladies and gentlemen, the government draft law amending certain laws related to family support schemes is not surprising. It was announced by the PiS government. It is more than that: the fact that the current rulers of many of their projects wrote on the proverbial knee, that in political malice they do not listen to other political formations, also that they act solely for the sake of their electoral posts, not for Polish families. The project is wide, but at this point I would like to focus on one of its most important points. Of course, it's about the 500+ program. The amendment proposed by you aims to eliminate cases that are incompatible with the actual declaration by parents of single parenting so that the parent's income does not fall within the family income statement and the number of dependants. The draft amendment is also intended to prevent the income generated from being adjusted to the income criterion that entitles the first child to benefit, e.g. by terminating the employment relationship and then re-establishing it with the same employer under different conditions. If this were to happen within 3 months, it would not be considered a loss of income. So-called. The seal will eliminate those who wish to deceive the Polish state. That's good, because there's no permission for fraud or tolerance for those who want to play unfairly. But the problem is, you guys aren't playing fair on your own either. Since you're announcing changes in 500+, I'd like to know why this can't be a good change for the most deprived, which the programme is ruling out today. You will not hide yourselves, my fellow Members of the PiS, from the banging, Mr Mosiński... [[But I'm not humming.]] ...or screaming. You can't turn this around. [[I'm just banging.]] You're banging, very good. If you'd like... [[Voice from the hall: Where's the buzzing?]] Madam President, if you really wanted to bring something good in, you would do what we have been saying and proposing for a long time. It's a gold buck - a PSL project, our amendment to the 500+ program. I know it hurts you, but the facts are that the introduction of this principle will allow the program you're so proud of to be fair and to be able to benefit from it most in need. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, let me remind you what this principle is because you may not understand it. [[Eight years.]] Even people, including others. single mothers whose income exceeds the income threshold set by you 800 PLN per person would have a chance to add to the first child. It would only be reduced from 500 PLN in so far as the income is higher. For example, if it is 850 PLN per person per month, parents will get 450 PLN per first child. Going further: I remind you that on 2 May 2016 in an interview for one of the newspapers Minister at the Prime Minister's firm Henryk Kowalczyk said this: we will consider whether to introduce the principle of gold for gold. Yeah, you even figured it would cost less than 5% to make that rule. the annual value of the entire project, about PLN 2 billion. So? Nothing, as usual. If you can't get through the throat that it's a PSL idea, add a plus plus to it, like you're used to, and tell me it's your idea: a zloty for a plus. And so everything will go to a pretty big package of your program Plagiat+. Let me just remind you that the Prime Minister recently rejected the success of the programme, which is interesting, which is good for the previous coalition. The only modification of the PiS for this program was the addition of a plush in the name, because even the amount of the budget for this program is exactly the same as at the time when the Minister of Labour was Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. If it goes on like this, the PiS is gonna get so excited, it might make Mrs. Rafalska out of lawn mower. We'll wait, we'll see. But I can assure you that people have become accustomed to the name: the lawnmowers and remember who created this program. Today, however, let us focus, Minister, on the burning problem of 500+. Today we call once again for the inclusion of the principle of gold for the $500+ program. We will submit an amendment to the project accordingly. The Polish People's Party Club will vote in favour of further work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u39	Thank you. The questions were raised by 31 ladies and gentlemen. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. [[One and a half.]] I'm saying we're quite late, so I'm gonna follow the timeline. She is the first to ask the question of Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, the Law and Justice Club. [[This is how all the laws are dealt with, we're limited in statements.]] Madame, your opinions and questions need to be formulated efficiently.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister, since the so-called law has been implemented. A cashier's fee for a cashier's fee. What is the cost of implementing this procedure, also as a percentage, of the amount of benefits paid under it? Have the demands and arguments of the social partners on this law been taken into account? This will make it easier for us to assess further legal changes for families. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that improving the financial condition of families shows a decrease in the number of applications for financial aid for students despite a high income limit per person in a family that is a criterion for granting such aid. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u41	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u42	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! You want to increase the number of places in crèches, and this actually deserves approval, but this cannot be done at the expense of lowering the standards, comfort and safety of children. After the protests of the guardians and parents, you withdrew from the idea of increasing the number of children per guardian, and thank God for that, but we still have a record of not requiring a separate room to rest, to lie down. And this solution is also wrong. Let us remember that for the children - for their proper development - rest, peaceful sleep is especially needed, and when solving three in one: a living room, a dining room, a bedroom, we will not provide it to them. So let's make changes, but let's not make them at the expense of children, let's not make them a collective farm. Asking the Minister to reconsider and possibly withdraw from these records. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u43	Thank you. The question is asked by Barbara Bartus, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm listening to these statements and I wanted to start by asking how many times in eight years the Civic Platform and the PSL... [[By the will of the voters.]] ... raised the income thresholds for family benefits. How much did the family benefits increase? As regards Mr PSL's speech, I also wanted to ask how many families during the PO-PSL regime have lost their entitlement to any family benefits at all, and how many families during the PO-PSL regime have received family benefits under the gold dollar scheme? But first of all, I wanted to thank you very much for this change, which in terms of system coordination transfers tasks commissioned from regional governments to voivodships. I wanted to say that in the Małopolska voivodship after over a year of operation of the law on educational benefits until today there are families who have not even received a decision. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question to the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u45	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u46	Is there any chance that these decisions will be made by the voivods since the new recruitment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u47	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u48	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In accordance with the proposed amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Act on State Aid to Raising Children shall not be entitled to a child's parental benefit if a single parent has not been established for the benefit of that child from his/her parent, a maintenance benefit on the basis of an implementing title originating in or approved by the court. And the question, Minister: Wouldn't that be contrary to the goal of the 500+ institution, especially in the case of single parents raising children? In such a case, the benefit of 500+ will be granted only after the possibility of obtaining maintenance benefits has been exhausted from the second parent, which in fact could lead to a significant shift during the granting of the benefit of 500+, where a single parent first has to carry out appropriate judicial proceedings to determine the validity and amount of maintenance, and then in the event of voluntary payment of such maintenance by a second parent entitled to maintenance will have to initiate an enforcement procedure, the inefficiencies of which will only be the basis for granting the benefit of 500+. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u49	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Does the government foresee a capitalisation of 500+? And the second question is, how are you gonna solve a case of benefits when a child's father refuses to pay alimony, he often goes abroad without leaving an address, and the court says, please deliver the address, and we're gonna be chasing the guy? It's not solved, and that's what families and children are suffering from. And one more thing. Does the State, or does the government provide for an extension of the payment of adult benefits after graduation? Until now, it's been 18 years. Will it be expected to extend payment until graduation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u51	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u52	Minister! It is time to admit that the 500+ pro-natal objective will be achieved at a more than modest level. In fact, you yourself admitted this in an interview, saying that you will swallow your own language if the number of births in Poland does not exceed 400,000. It's a very, very modest bar, Minister, because it's only about 17 and 18 thousand. more than in 2016. Nevertheless, this awareness that it is impossible to increase the number of birthdays in Poland to a satisfactory or changing level, turning you towards institutional solutions. Great, Minister, you're perfecting child care until the age of three, which means you're entering the platform's shoes. Thank you for that, Minister, because this is the right direction. Keep up the good work. But at the same time don't insult the Platform and previous governments that you're the only ones who've seen the role [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the importance of the Polish family, because it is not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u53	The question is asked by Antoni Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u54	Miss the propaganda introductions we've been dealing with here, unfortunately. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Government of Law and Justice really appreciated the value of the family as a basis for Poland's development. The Family of 500+. is our flagship programme, very well received and evaluated by Poles, and not only because in many countries they envy this programme. Here I bow to Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, who prepared this programme. Black scenarios have also failed, that the programme will contribute to increased pathology, resignation, etc. [[They checked.]] However, after more than a year of operation, we have seen some abuses, which do not have a mass scale, but are a bit spoiling the picture of the programme. It is about underestimating the income to get a benefit for the first child by calling yourself a single parent. And the question is, will the proposed change requiring such people to show that they are at least seeking alimony from their second parent significantly reduce this problem? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u56	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u57	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As PO and PSL saw the role of the Polish family, you can see after 8 years of their rule. You can only criticize, and you could not offer good solutions for Polish families. [[It's a lie.]] Minister, one of the reasons why young parents are inactive is the need to take care of young children. The government project provides for a total of 500 million for the establishment of childcare institutions under the age of 3 and for a programme to support the professional activation of those persons who had to give up their work due to the need to take care of the young child. This is a very important and necessary solution. But I have a question: To what extent will it contribute to the return of young parents to the labour market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u58	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Further changes in family rights and rights are of course very important and very necessary and we will strongly support them. However, a deeper analysis of the changes made leads to the conclusion that it is necessary to consider the creation of a single general law containing the rights and rights of families raising children, but also families who care for their old and disabled members. General law: a specific code of family rights, where the scope of the subject matter will be indicated: what, and also subjective: who and who is responsible for implementing these rights of the family. My question is: Isn't the government considering a substantive legislative work integrating all rights and rights of the family into a single law? And the second question, Mr. Marshal, maybe more to you: Shouldn't we judge every bill under review from the point of view of its compliance with the rights and interests of the families, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The way we judge conformity...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u60	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u61	...these laws with the rights of the European Union? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u62	The question is asked by Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister and the Deputy Minister: Why do you take money from parents who are on parental leave and raise more than one child? Today is the case that if the mother gives birth, for example. twins, resigns from employment and goes on parental leave, according to the resolution of the Supreme Administrative Court, most often after appeals, the Local Board of Appeal grants it 400 PLN, i.e. the allowance for resignation from employment and care of their children, grants 400 PLN for each child. Today you are taking this money from her. The Minister replied to my inquiry that there are no such statistics and this is not a legal basis. Minister, I've done my homework. Here are the answers from all the social services centers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That every mother gets an allowance for every child. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u64	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u65	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am convinced that the most important investment in the future is investment in the family. The 500+ programme for Polish families is the best example of this. It is the first programme on such a large scale to help Polish families. Thanks to this program, more children are born - this has become a fact. Some children may have gone on vacation for the first time, had additional activities, thus developing better. My question is: Will the changes proposed by the Ministry contribute to the improvement of this programme, better transparency and rationality in public spending, and the Large Family Charter will contribute to the greater activity of Polish families in social and cultural life? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u66	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to thank you for reviewing the family support systems and for the proposals for changes that were included in the government bill amending certain laws related to family support schemes. First of all, we seal the 500+ program, clarify many regulations in this law, visualize the Large Family Charter, and thus improve the situation of Polish families. My question concerns custody of children between 1 and 3 years of age. Is it true that now 14.5% of care is taken Polish children, i.e. many times more than under the Civic Platform and PSL? I ask this because the voice of the opposition, and especially of the Civic and Modern Platform, rejecting the bill by her, is perceived as a black Tuesday for Polish families, a black Tuesday for Polish children. Shame on you! [[Applause]] [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: You are taking money...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u68	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Agnieszka Hanajczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I ask the Minister: Why, in your speech, with the number of crèches, the number of places in crèches, you referred to 2010, forgetting that the fivefold increase in the number of places in crèches as well as the number of carers themselves is due to the 2011 Act? I don't think it was just a random mistake. Second thing, Minister. Please answer: How many single mothers in Poland who live in poverty, who are unable to benefit from the benefit of 500+ due to the income of PLN 802 per child and who have not been able to benefit from the maintenance fund since 2018 due to the rise in the lowest wage? What is the number of these mothers living in poverty, and what changes do you have here, and what proposals? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u70	The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. You may be able to make it on time at least once. [[I'm not gonna make it. Just a minute from the marshal, sir.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u71	With great grace - a minute. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Finally, the government noted that the 500+ programme is underdeveloped in many areas and contains gaps that lead to pathology. Unfortunately, it is. I recently spoke to the Minister about the need to change the arrangements for the acquisition of the right to benefit 500+ by unemployed mothers who suspended their business activity in 2015. The basis for calculating the level of income in their situation was income for 2014, i.e. the period when they were still earning revenue. By such conditions, they were deprived of the State aid due. Minister! Is this going to be compensated for in any way? What rules will be applied in the 500+ programme for such a group of beneficiaries? Mrs Chrobak has left, but speak on behalf of your club [[♪ The bell ♪]] Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u72	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u73	And if you want to speak so badly on behalf of the Platform, then tell me the truth that the Civic Platform... [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Did you turn it off already? Thank you very much. You're incredibly kind. We haven't had a marshal like you before. We're debating such an important bill that it takes at least one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u74	Thank you very much. There's always a problem with you, so you can make your speech in time. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! That 500+ is a project that deactivates women who encourage women to work in black and encourage them to hide part of their income, we all know. But there was something else I wanted to tell you. Very often it is said that it is a project that does not concern the first children. It's more complicated than that. Really, this project does not apply to first or second children if the age difference between siblings is very large. Take an example of two children whose age difference is 10 years. Then the real family collects 500 PLN for children, or actually for one child, only for 8 years: from the age of 10 years of the first child to the age of 18 years. However, note that according to the program proposed by the Modern, Active family - it is about PLN 250 per child - the same family would collect money in the amount of PLN 250 [[♪ The bell ♪]] In total, 28 years. Why don't you think about it? [[Applause]] [[28 years?]] Yes, ma'am. Count it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u76	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, a modern club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u77	Dear Marshal, Minister! Minister! Why are there no comments on the pages of the Government's Legislative Centre regarding this amendment? Wasn't that the point? Where can they possibly be found? Minister, aren't you confusing the impact with the correlation? Because this correlation is a co-operation, and this influence is an influence - you know what it is. And here's the thing. You said here that this program had an impact on children, but I would like to ask you which studies - quantitative, qualitative, interviews or surveys - were carried out to confirm this thesis. How was that measured? And one more thing: What about inflation? The Minister was kind enough to answer my parliamentary inquiry and said that it was only up to the government, and I have a question: Will the government give rise to inflation? It's a simple question. Yes or no? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u78	The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Piechota, the Civic Platform Club. You're not here. There it is. [[There it is, there it is.]] There it is. [[I am, Marshal, I am.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u79	I couldn't let you down. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister argues that the help of the family started only when the PiS government came. For the Minister, he repeats this thesis many times. How huge and limitless it takes ignorance, how boundless and cynical it takes to claim that history had only begun with the arrival of the PiS government. Of course, it's a proven method: to lie, to lie forever, because a lie repeated endlessly many will eventually see as what reality is. But it seems that this method is so disgusting that decent people should be absolutely ruthless to her. [[Applause]] It's disgusting. And now: Will it help the family, because the minister here praised it so much, to lower the mandatory employment rate for people with disabilities in higher education and similar institutions? After all, this is not just a matter of the labour market. This is a matter of humanizing this environment. It's a matter of opening up certain perspectives. [[The bell, the applause.]] Is that really...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u81	...help your family? Will he help the family...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u82	The question is asked by Mr Antoni Mężyłko, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u83	...take the benefit when there's more...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u84	Please, sir, you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u85	...than one person taken care of? Answer me...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u86	...he's run out of time. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u87	...to that question. Will that help the family? It's a lie. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u88	Please, Mr Antoni Men, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns the income criterion because in the explanatory memorandum I read with concern that the criteria of 800 and 1200 PLN will be preserved in the future. And of those goals that you were talking about, that is investment in the family, the fight against poverty and the pro-natalist goal, it is only really the fight against poverty that is the only goal here, and it is the fight against poverty both in families of many children and in families of the poor. And keeping this criterion under the enormous pressure of the government to increase the wage associated with minimum wage and hourly wage, now it is going to be 13 PLN per hour, it will be at the expense of these poorest families, we will be withdrawing from this 500+ programme in fact. Here was also the question of inflation. That's not included either. I, Minister, or this pressure on the minimum wage when determining criteria for other benefits [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's gonna be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u90	Thank you, sir. The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u91	Will this pro-wage objective also be taken into account? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u92	...Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club. There's no envoy. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Minister, you have pointed out two such fundamental abuses of the programme. The first concerns persons whose income actually exceeds that threshold. Let me remind you that we have pointed out that such a danger exists, so it is not surprising to us. The second issue concerns persons who do not reside in the territory of the Republic of Poland. I have a question: Does the Minister have data on how large the scale is, how many people are specifically wrongly charged this salary? Do you have such data? And the second point: How many people do they charge even though they are not on the territory of the Republic of Poland? Once again, I propose that we consider this simple principle of gold for a zloty that eliminates this issue in a clear way, the possibility of [[♪ The bell ♪]] Abuse in this...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u94	Thank you very much. The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u95	...programming. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u96	...Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is impossible to remain indifferent to the populist statements of the destructive opposition about the annual action of the 500+ programme, its great success... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...pro-family policies of the Law and Justice Government. My question concerns custody of children up to the age of 3. Is it true that under the PO-PSL regime, care was covered by about 3% of the children, and as of 16 May 2017, this is more than 11% ? And is it true that in 2014 the then government spent PLN 100 million, in 2015 - PLN 160 million, and for 2017 the government of Law and Justice committed PLN 500 million in the state budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u98	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I am convinced that the votes of the total opposition will not influence the process of the change throughout the 500+ programme. The platform can't be any different. She'd love to go back to the past eight years... [[It's true.]] ...when the level of extreme poverty is over 11%, and now it's below 1%. Is it true that until the introduction of the 500+ programme, only 2 million children were supported, any financial support from the State? And because of that, is it true that... [[It's a lie.]] ...the introduction of 500+ resulted in a fourfold increase in financial commitment to support Polish families? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u100	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Teresa Wargock, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to refer to your speech from the Modern Club. She alleged that the goal of the 500+ programme was to convince women to stay at home. I wanted to make a definite reference to this situation. A new programme for the "Maluch+" programme, 500 billion to launch... [[Millions, not billions.]] ...half a billion to launch this program, that's proof that we want to give women a free choice in their professional activities. Minister, I wanted to ask you about when this program will start and what its assumptions will be. The next question concerns the issue of women's return to the labour market. Does the analysis you carried out show that women [[♪ The bell ♪]] They've stopped being professionally active...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u102	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u103	...because of 500+? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u104	The question is asked by Edward Sulphur, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question concerns the payment of 500+ education in a situation where there is a coordination element. That's the kind of question that's been asked here before. I was investigating this case in my territory of the Nowotar County. At the end of March there were over 1800 families who did not receive this benefit. In more than half of the cases, the applications of these persons have not yet been considered. This was the result of the reports I received from GOPS. Only in 300 cases it was decided that the benefit was due and that it was still a long way to pay the benefits. The situation is so dramatic that it often affects people who have a disabled child, so it also concerns the payment of additional care for these children. So how do you calculate how the ministry calculates how much time it takes for us to settle this issue when the voivodships take over this task in accordance with the new provisions of the law? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u106	Thank you. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! If it is to be a debate, it is to be a concrete debate. There were 400 crèches in 2007, 1800 in 2015, [[Applause]] There were 17,000 kindergartens. in 2007 [[$3,000. For a year...]] ...in 2015 - 22 000 The world did not start on 25 October 2015. [[Applause]] You're trying to... And I was surprised there'd finally be a good bill. She's another staff member, another staff member. You throw employees out of the marshal's offices in terms of coordination, you give them to the voivodships. My question is this. To support, you have to earn first, that is to want to give, you have to earn first. I would like to ask: How many entrepreneurs from the Labour Fund will go to activate the labour market? And, Minister, I didn't expect you to manipulate numbers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These numbers speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u108	Thank you. The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u109	Remember them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u110	...Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The 500+ programme is described as an unconditional educational provision and it is good that the Minister has noticed the shortcomings in this programme and proposes to amend it. However, these proposals do not always seem to go in this direction in order to facilitate the acquisition of these benefits. An example of this is the issue of raising children in the event of divorce and child support. It is rather here that the Minister makes it difficult to use this programme until the court has finally decided. Yet, parenting in such a case is not much different than parenting in the case of a single mother. It seems that this should be treated in the same way as raising a single mother. And, of course, this cannot be compared to the family allowance rules. And last but not least, I would like to commend the Minister, because, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, however...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u112	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Drozd...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u113	... I'm judging the Big Family Card as a good solution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u114	...Citizen Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! Minister! At the beginning of your speech, you spoke about your family. You don't have to convince anyone in this room that family is the most important thing. I understand you mean a family that does its job. And the Minister knows, and it is no secret, that among all families there is a group of families under state aid in the framework of social services that has benefited and benefited from various types of support. Many problems in these families are not only due to lack of money, but also to inability. Hence, as the Minister recalls, we have appointed a family assistant to help them fulfil their basic functions. It's a very important task, difficult, tedious, time-consuming. It is therefore important to support those workers who, following the introduction of 500+, are often in a worse financial position than their people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So is the Minister expecting...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u116	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u117	...an increase in wages for this group of employees...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u118	The question is asked by Mrs Beata Mazurek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u119	...to synchronize all actions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u120	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u121	...for well-functioning families? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u122	Mrs Beata Mazurek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Just because someone's screaming out loud like the opposition doesn't mean they're right. It is difficult to accept the fact that for the first time, however, Law and Justice gave direct financial support to families. We've accepted solutions. [[Game in the O.R.]] which operate in many countries of the European Union. May I? Yes, you can. Just don't steal, folks. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Question. Goldilocks for the gold, the flagship program of PSL, how is it evaluated, Minister, by local governments? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, please respond!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u124	Madam, please do not interfere with the speech of the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u125	Questions about daycare. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u126	You've got a...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u127	How many municipalities in Poland have no childcare facilities at all? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What does stealing mean? Who's stealing? What right do we have to be offended?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u128	Sit down and don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u129	How much does the family have to pay on average now? How's it gonna be after the shift? You've been accused of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u130	The truth hurts. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u131	...that there was no consultation on this project. So I ask: Who were the consultations with? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Keep your nerves in check, ladies and gentlemen. It's not like... [[To the committee of parliamentary ethics! What right? This is unacceptable!]] ...that you can say anything, and we can't say anything. We can and we will talk. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Who were the proposed changes consulted, Minister? What is the evaluation of this project? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u132	Please sit in your seat and do not interfere with your speeches. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ma'am, I'll be reprimanding you right away if you don't calm down. [[Voice from the room: Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u133	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With regard to the article. 8...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u134	Madam, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are disturbing...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u135	Can I speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u136	...the session of the Sejm, that is to say, for the first time. [[Did you notice?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u137	I take it I'm running out of time, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u138	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u139	Can I start?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u140	Yes, of course. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u141	I hope so. With regard to the article. Point 8 (6) of the Law restricting the right to benefits of single parents unless they are exhausted by the possibility of seeking child support - does the government know how long it takes for them to be established on a judicial basis and to demonstrate the ineffectiveness of their collection? I've been through this, ladies and gentlemen. It's a road through torment, a very long road. Are they families of worse kind to you? Ladies and gentlemen, they are in a more difficult situation - not only that material, it's even mental after a breakup. Children from such families have a really harder start in adult life. For incomprehensible reasons, you also failed to raise the income threshold for receiving funds from the maintenance fund. He's on some kind of hunger level. I don't understand why you didn't. Our Active Family programme does not divide families into worse and better sort. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the same children, and they also need support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u142	The question is asked by Mrs Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of the Large Family Charter Act was to introduce solutions that support many families. Although this card provides huge support, many families do not use such solutions. As far as I know, the Supreme Audit Chamber has pointed out that the cause of this condition may be too much formalities for the application. There is also a long waiting time for the Large Family Card, and many families still do not know about this possibility. I have a question, Minister: What solutions are introduced in the proposed bill to make the Large Family Charter more attractive and encourage more families to use this card? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u144	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This huge bill amending 19 other laws, with 150 pages of volume, notified on 7 June is due to apply from 1 August in a large part, in others a little later. How can you, Minister, at such a volume, with such an important bill not carry out extensive consultations? Always suddenly, in a hurry. It's not good, it's not good. Consultations always expose mistakes. Local government - and this project has a negative opinion of local governments - is the largest partner implementing this and exposing errors. You will fall into your own trap. All hybrids plus pay attention, but Poles [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're feeling...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u146	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u147	...for wasting money and their efficiency. I think this project will not be judged positively despite its guarantees. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u148	Thank you very much. This list of Members has been exhausted. Ms Elżbieta Rafalska, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, will now speak. Minister, due to the long delay, I ask for a brief reply, possibly in writing. There weren't many substantive questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for your club appearances, for your parliamentary inquiries. They all lead us to some reflection, to an attempt to argue, to answers to those positions that seem deeply unfair to me, and often not true. I will try to answer some of these questions in general. Maybe I'll start by allowing myself to sum up this program for a moment. Perhaps not everyone remembers the scale of this program, how extensive it is, what its financial consequences are. From our groundbreaking programme of family policy introduced on 1 April 2016, the programme introduced within the first 100 days of the establishment of the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, today benefits 2.6 million Polish families, including children who benefit from this programme, is 3.9 million. In fact, by the end of April 2017, the programme cost 24.9 billion, i.e. over 13 months, and this is the scale of the expenditure incurred on the 500+ family programme, the expenditure properly targeted, which families use to improve the well-being of their children. These expenses allowed Poland to stand among those countries of Western Europe, which spend over 3% on their family policy, and this is considered to be a decent level, a good level of funding for family policy. Today we are among the four countries where the benefit is high, the benefit is comparable. And it's us, ladies and gentlemen... I'm going to refer to a few more elements. Questions have been raised which children use this program. Well, 1.5 million children benefit from the scheme on the basis of income criteria. See what a group of children is, where we apply the income criterion 800 PLN or 1200 PLN. Where the income criterion is 1,200 PLN, the programme benefits from 120 thousand PLN. The families in which they live are disabled children. What it looks like for families with children up to the age of 18, because our benefit is up to 18 years old. This care, including support from the State, is 58% Polish children up to the age of 18, of which over 64% are rural children, 50% urban children and probably 54% children in urban-rural municipalities... 59 in rural-rural municipalities. If we had already excluded rural-urban rural communities from these municipalities, it would have turned out that there are 70% of rural children in these municipalities. because we know well that the income of rural families is lower than the income of urban families and there is also more childhood, so these children, even though there are fewer families, there are more, including only children, that is, children of families with one child who receive the benefit, are 7024 thousand. - if this is one child, we are also talking clearly about the fact that this is an award based on a profit criterion. What does it look like for families of many? Well, as far as families are concerned, it's 376,000, which is 14%. all families enjoying this program, but as we will look at how many children from large families benefit from it, even though there are 14% of them. , it is already 28% children. And, of course, these multi-child families have received significant support. I think this is one of the successes of this program, that those families who raise many children, not only 3+ but often 5 and 6+, which their small income had to share by 5, 7, sometimes by 10, the Polish state supported in this effort of raising children. It was our duty, because the fact that in Poland there was such a high absolute poverty among children and young people, among families of many children, was a reason for which every country, regardless of who is in charge, should simply be ashamed. And this effect has also been achieved. [[Minister...]] One of the pages said that it's not known what this program is, that it's hybrid. We are saying, ladies and gentlemen, clearly: we must remember that family policy must be distinguished from social policy. And in the part where we have a profit criterion, and I would like to point out that the income criterion is the highest criterion used for benefits, there is indeed this module, this social support element, because we thought that since we are also to introduce a family support policy, regardless of the income situation, we will support those families who are in difficulty by introducing the 800 and 1200 PLN criteria. But for the first time in Polish family policy, as regards the support system, the welfare system or the welfare system, maybe it is better: the support system, where the state implements this principle of subsidiarity, we have introduced a universal, universal benefit. We said that everyone bears the cost of raising children and we want Poland, also without applying the income criterion, to introduce such a benefit. But we also wanted to achieve a pronatistic goal. We know that a family model with one child is a dominant model, that for over 25 years we have a low, non-prominent generation substitution indicator and that if we want to change that, there must be a breakthrough in our view of family policy. These fears of young families that their material situation will deteriorate because another child is born will be minimized or reduced. And that's what happens because of the 500+ family witnessing, but it also happens, and that's what we say openly, thanks to the very good situation in the labour market, the fact that we can change jobs, we can look for jobs with a higher salary, or we can work where we worked, and these salaries are growing. Here I will remind you of yesterday's GUS announcement that the salary increase in May was 5.4. This really is a big increase. So these conditions for families arise. [[For the Misiewicz.]] We're talking about this show. We've been evaluating this program all along, monitoring it. I will refer to the three stereotypes that appeared at the implementation stage. One of them appeared here: deactivating women, taking women away from work, or dissuading women from taking part in the labour market. I ask that someone show me hard data about the BAEL data on women's professional inactivity, clearly show where the data are because we do not have data that would clearly say that this is the impact of the 500+ programme. And please bear in mind that the increase in this professional inactivity has already occurred in 2014 when the programme was not in place. This growth rate continued in 2015 - it was not there either. So today, talking about women deactivating, not being interested in returning to the labour market, really insulting women. You don't really believe, you don't trust women who receive 500+ benefits know that this is an addition to what they earn in the labour market. If they don't go to the job either, it's because they have responsibilities, important family responsibilities, important educational responsibilities, caring duties. When a mother takes care of five children or three little children and doesn't work, we should bow down before her efforts, because sometimes she's easier at work than when she takes care of three children at home, [[Applause]] 'Cause there's no time at home to even have coffee. So it's really not that the Polish people dreamed of nothing else, it's about leaving their jobs and taking care of their children. It was one of those stereotypes. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that if there were hard data from experts, researchers on the labour market, we would have all the media full information about what this bad PiS did on the labour market, as it didn't cause women to be only and only in the kitchens, not doing professionally, not fulfilling their ambitions. I assure you, we have no such data. We are happy here, but not just lucky, because we have a very good economic situation, we have a good situation on the labour market. Women know it's not something we're permanently given. They can count on increases, they can count on better jobs or they can go back to the labour market today. The second point was that, through our solutions, we will make those families that are hard even worse. Well, ladies and gentlemen, a little humility towards your own solutions that you've been applying. [[If they get the money, it can't be hard.]] Mr President, 25 billion are addressed to Polish families with children. We have effectively reduced extreme poverty among children and young people. [[Good.]] The disposable income of families has increased strongly and the disposable income of large families has increased to the greatest extent. These ranges, which were between the disposable income of multi-child families and the income of such a medium-sized holding, significantly decreased, and where there was expenditure, the situation of the families who received the benefit also improved. And you'd have to be blind so you wouldn't see it. So it's absolutely here... [[Come on, let's ……]] ...which has completely reduced us in this part of society, it's poverty. And the last stereotype I'm going to refer to, but luckily he didn't fall in this room at all, is a waste of resources. It was a chorus, once repeated so consistently, which was to compromise this program. Fortunately, Polish families have their own brains, have their own experiences. These families, who have low incomes, often count each dollar better and watch it a hundred times than those who can spend money. So on a national scale, with this 2,600 thousand. families who benefit from the transfer of financial assistance to in-kind assistance, that is 1.5 thousand. Please remember that these are decisions of local governments, so if local governments really saw a serious problem, I think that this government of law and justice and our government program would not have saved. I will now return to those questions that have been raised in your speeches and in your questions. Maybe I'll start by coordinating my education. Ladies and gentlemen, we have assessed the functioning of this programme and it has turned out that, with regard to this cooperation at the level of the municipality in the implementation of this programme, few problems have been successfully introduced. In the case of powiats, too. Such a weaker point was the coordination of educational services and tasks which were carried out by the marshals. First basic plea: there is no good financing mechanism guaranteed there. This mechanism could not be a mechanism multiplied by what is in the municipality, and from what is in the county, because the marshal does not pay the money. The Marshal makes a decision. Therefore, the percentage for this purpose was not possible. We began to judge how the marshals were carrying out this coordination. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen that all these years the money that has been addressed, passed on to marshals, marshals for coordination of family benefits, others, not only educational benefits, were without any average, without any valuation, without any standardization. As we tried to count it and check it out, it turned out that between voivodships, there was such diversity between regions, that e.g. one local government issued a decision which was valued at eighty zlotys, and in another voivodship the cost of one decision was 460.480 thousand. That's not enough, it's not just a question of money anymore. There have been very long delays in issuing these decisions. Today we know that some are waiting a year, some six months. The waiting period is extended. Although I also agree with you that this is not such a simple decision, as it is in the municipality. This is a security coordination based on cooperation with foreign services, so it takes much longer. But as we tried to enforce faster proceedings from the government, all we could hear was: you have to add money, more money. More money was wanted by those who had decisions for nearly 500 PLN, more decisions wanted to have those who had 80 PLN. As we said that we would pay for every decision, at the end of the year it was stopped, these decisions were not made, and then there was an avalanche at the beginning of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the task we're commissioning, this is our task, our government program. We can implement this program in the way we consider it to guarantee efficient operation. [[Applause]] We have come to the conclusion that the possibilities for further agreement in this area are simply exhausted. If this is our assignment and we say to the principal: we pay so much, do it to us, and they disagree, this is a fair relationship. We say we take it, we do it ourselves, we move it to the voivodeships. Staff pursuant to Article. 23, everyone can, as they wish, go to the voivodships and do the same work there. And I will have a direct impact on the voivode who is a representative of the government in the field. And I can't imagine there's a game of cat and mouse that has been happening so far, but a little bit with the local government, because we couldn't come to an agreement here. And I believe that as a contractor, I have the freedom to decide who will do this job. We were talking about the negative position of local governments. The Joint Government and Territorial Self-Government Commission has only addressed the coordination of educational benefits. So in this opinion we also have to see that, of course, the local authorities did not want to give up the task, even though they said that it was a burdensome, costly task, they added to it. It is from this burden of coordination of security that we wanted to free these regional governments. But they're not quite happy about it either. [[Applause]] So, as far as this coordination is concerned, I think we need to speed up these decisions, ladies and gentlemen. It can't be like someone's gonna wait a year to make a decision. There's a year of waiting, three kids, and then there's cumulative payouts. This family needs these benefits now, they need them for their living, they need them for their lives, so it was very important to us. There was information here about family benefits. This is how you defend these family benefits. And I, ladies and gentlemen, for the record, have been analysing family benefits that have been in force since 2004 through all my parliamentary work. When they came into force in 2004, 5.5 million Polish children benefited from these benefits. When you finished your 8-year-old governments, 2 million children, 2 million families, benefited from these benefits. And now I can say that during this period... I will say this with regard to the decrease in the number of children in each year when you were in power, in one year there were 450,000, in another - 300,000, in the next - 250,000, in the next - 240 thousand, in 2013 - 200 thousand, in 2014 - 100 thousand. What was the cost savings for the reason that the income criterion was not raised? I counted it roughly, maybe not very precise, but it was 1750 million. These were the savings resulting from the fact that the income criteria were frozen and the benefits were not paid. So $2 million... And your plan adopted, let's say, in 2015 during the election campaign period was a proposal with which you also went in the election campaign: Polish families, we will raise your income criterion and raise your family benefit by 5 or 7 PLN. But then... [[You're not telling the truth.]] ...there was no 500+ benefit. We have introduced our witnessing, realized it, and are talking about witnessing, which is several times higher than this witnessing. And remember, when we talk about the income criterion, that the benefit of 500+ is not included in the income criterion in the case of social assistance, it is not included in the benefit from the maintenance fund, it is not included in the family benefits. If we have a 3-person family that we are talking about, and if this family does not include a benefit of 500+, it also benefits from other benefits, because the income criterion for other benefits is lower. But if we were to add this benefit, which is relatively high, 500 divided by 3, that's almost 170 zł, which is the income criterion, it could be said that through the mechanism of not including in the income of our benefit was raised by almost 170 zł. People could benefit, families could benefit from this and this benefit. Therefore, do not be angry with us, but we have no obligation to implement your plans for family policy. We have another active social policy. We're implementing our government's family policy agenda. I would also like to refer to the mechanism of the cash for the zloty. Sir, there's no envoy here. I know it's not my job to do this, but I'm going to ask you how much you've spent, you've paid for the money under the cash mechanism. Mrs Bartus asked that question. [[That's what I asked the Minister.]] How much did you pay? How long have you guys been doing this program, which is the most media-bearing, because in life it doesn't work out so well, in eight-year-old governments? You didn't realize it at all. [[Applause]] Because every dollar paid under the gold mechanism financed the state budget, but under the rule of law and justice. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the perfect mechanism. Dozens, if you don't say hundreds of local authorities who almost don't leave a shred on this mechanism, say that he's incomprehensible to families, terribly bureaucratic, inefficient, and also leads us to some kind of gold, because there's a line somewhere. We say it's 20 zlotys. For example, family gets 6.73 PLN, 12.35 PLN. It's not like we're saying that when you cross over the zloty, we're gonna take the zloty away from you, because if there are five children and two parents in the family, this is over the zloty, but we're gonna have to subtract 7 zlotys, because the income was divided by five plus two, which is seven. And then there's the sharing of that income, and the family says, "But we thought that if we went that far, that's it... And one decision on the gold mechanism has six pages of justification, of which few are satisfied, satisfied, and it is an overgrown bureaucracy. High Izbo! How did you then plan on the financial consequences of the gold mechanism? He was supposed to cost 300 million PLN. The trace number of families uses it, its cost is many times lower, about PLN 70 million. So it's just that It's more password-based, it's more easy to use than it is to use, but we leave it if everyone's so happy with it, it's okay, just don't say you paid and implemented. You've been in charge for 8 years, you've been able to implement a gold mechanism for 5 years, and really 1.5 billion, 1.7 billion of these benefits you've saved up, and that's, let's say, a 30% reduction in spending for this particular purpose, on family benefits, per cent. Yes? So you've saved 1.7 billion, and I'm talking about the fact that we're already spending 25 billion PLN. Another thing. Since it was about comments about what the PSL Club was talking about, and this mechanism of gold for gold, we are also talking about, it was about the fact that Law and Justice claim programs. Well, we don't take advantage of any programs. But if PSL didn't want us to do the gold for the gold, he could file a motion to withdraw it so we wouldn't take advantage of some idea, but I'm just being a little ridiculous. On the other hand, I will return, ladies and gentlemen, to parenting, to 1000 PLN, which is sometimes also referred to as lawnmowers. And how much do you think the previous government, in the last eight years, during the two term, has paid out this lawnmower in zlotys? How much? 0 PLN. 0 zł, because these were all projects that were adopted in the election campaign in a situation where some quotations were already weakening, so, ladies and gentlemen, we would not have thought to give our own name to any witness. It's not my money, so I don't think it's right or right. [[Applause]] And yet, in a situation in which it was not realized or not paid at all, this is not the reason that it is possible to carry out the party banners, because today Prime Minister Szydło, who, when adopting the budget prepared by PO-PSL, had to find a guarantee for the payment of this benefit, could usurp the greater right to say so, and yet we do not do so out of decency and because it is primarily a benefit to the family, not the grace of anyone, of any policy. There have been some questions about valorization from both the Civic Platform, but most often from the Kukiz club15. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the benefit in the part in which it is based on the income criterion, because here, too, the Member of the Civic Platform spoke about it, was based on the income of 800 or 1200 PLN, but on the basis of the 2014 earnings. I talk about it a lot, don't I? In other words, for 2014, we had 2015 and 2016 and the benefit is paid until 30 September 2017. So these wages have grown, these wages have changed. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there was no inflation in 2015 and 2016. It was two years of deflation, two years of deflation, a rare situation, but it was, so the purchasing power of that money didn't diminish. And now what kind of mechanisms do we have at all to value benefits? These aren't mechanisms. In addition to the system of annual pension benefit valorisation, other benefits were valued, could be valued in a 3-year cycle and was assigned the optionality of this benefit. Here the Council of Ministers may decide to value, to raise income criteria, to change, today we do not talk about it, and also to increase the amount of the benefit. On 1 April 2017, the first year of operation of the programme passed, and now we will start a new allowance period. Really, the programme also needs to be assessed more carefully, and the programme also finances this growing Polish childhood. It was also a question of whether this effect of childhood growth was achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, November 2016 is the period for which it can already be considered that there was a certain impact of the 500+ programme, the number of births, I will refer to growth, 4,3 thousand. December 2016, next month of growth, 4,000. January - 4,000, February, March. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation that we have 8 months of growth is that there is no negative month when we refer to year by year, there have been for many, many years. November, December, January, February, March, April, we are waiting for data, for further data of the Central Statistical Office, from May. We also speak openly: our programme supports families, but the situation in the labour market is also important, and it is important to create other support, for example, for families in the form of childcare for children up to the age of 3. So I'm gonna ask you to take it easy with your child's evaluation, too. Of course, there is a lack of such data, whether the second children are born, whether we have the first children here, or perhaps more third children are born. We don't have that kind of data. These demographic processes, these forecasts are assessed over longer periods, but every month that confirms that more children are born than in the same month of the previous year, is optimistic and you cannot deny us that we were not looking for an incentive to improve the situation that was known to all previous governments, because these low fertility rates were not hidden knowledge. The 2016 fertility index was 1.36. I already told you about the labour market. The program absolutely does not deactivate professionally. Of course, we cannot rule out that there are situations where a woman resigns because she wants to take personal care of a sick child or two or three children. And there's absolutely nothing wrong with that either. We know that women remember their pension benefits, they know that they are retired through their work, and we also have no reason to complain because women's professional activity is improving, in the age groups concerned. As far as daycare is concerned, it was a question of why I was referring to 2010. That's why I was referring to this year, that the law that the Civic Platform and PSL government introduced is a law that has been in force since 2011, that is the starting point when we talked about the fact that these institutions died after the Polish People's Republic, when the daycare centers were subject to ZOZs when they were completely different individuals. This was the starting point, and for these eight years day care has actually developed to this number of 100,000. Places. However, we are talking about the fact that we have added this plus to the small one and introduced additional modules that did not exist in your programme, but I really think very strongly how it bothers you that we are continuing these programs to introduce a name for our programme, which will be different, because it will also be addressed to those places where the unemployment rate is e.g. 150% medium. As far as single parenting is concerned, we are concerned that the declarations of single parenting should be in line with the facts. This statement can be obtained within 30 days. If families already know this today, and the new allowance period will only be 1 October, I think that is not a big obstacle. Remember, as I said, this has been the case for 12 years with family benefits, and for this reason we had no intervention here. As far as families are concerned, there's been a question about social services. That's a good question, thank you very much for this question, because the social services managers say that working with the family has completely changed, that today is not working on how to make ends meet, that you can do normal social work, that these are also other problems. We absolutely do not withdraw the funding of family assistants, we see, we appreciate their great role. It's thanks to them that fewer children go to foster care, and when they go to foster care, they come back from this foster care to biological families. This is a big role for family assistants, because it's not just material problems that cause the family to fail. Sometimes it's a lack of self-help, sometimes it's an addiction, sometimes it's a care-educational problem, so absolutely family assistant is something that we're going to develop. This programme could have ended in 2017 under the Act and could have been a task entirely financed by local authorities. However, we want to support local governments in this action. We think this is the right direction. We believe that assistants should be engaged on a permanent basis. And that's what happens more and more, and local governments are doing it, they're taking advantage of our support, and they're coming in with family assistants, because there's definitely less of them. There was a question about financing institutional care. Here's what I'm going to say: earlier funding probably started at 50 million, as he started the crèche programme in general, then it was 100 million, but in 2015 there was funding at 151 million, the same as in 2016 and 2017. On the other hand, this new opening, following the introduction of these crèches, is PLN 0.5 billion from two different sources of funding, with changes that are proposed, maintaining a high standard of care, this dietary care, this direct care. We've given up increasing the group's numbers. Our proposal was for 10 children. We're back to what was adopted earlier. We have accepted the attention of employees, parents and many controversial or other points we have given up. There was also a question about the Big Family Charter. We talked about changes in day care, the 500+ programme itself, family benefits. As far as the Large Family Charter is concerned, the Big Family Charter uses 383,000. There are more than 1.7 million families, including children. There are different assessments that this is 50% , but the NIK report shows that it is precisely the difficulty of receiving and in some environments perhaps lack of knowledge that causes that not all who could, benefit from the offer of the Large Family Card. Let me remind you that these are railway discounts, passport discounts, discounts to landscape parks, but above all these are commercial discounts, because these trading partners are much, more and more. And now we propose that you just have this electronic, mobile version of the card on your smartphone or on your tablet. We also propose a geolocation that will allow us to locate those trading points that offer discounts. There are many facilities. The biggest is the system facility, which would enter into force on 1 January 2019. The point is that parents who have three children - these children are preserved, grown up, but they will be parents of a large family their whole lives - can benefit from the Big Family Card offer. Finally, I would like to say, as was pointed out at the last big family reunion, that in the case of large families, it is not even just about this commercial goal, but about the fact that the Large Family Charter is a card that also builds a community that allows these families to integrate, fight for their good name, and say that many families deserve respect and recognition. These families work hard, but they're happy, because a large family, like someone said, is a generous love. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u150	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending certain laws related to family support schemes. The bill submitted is another step in the development of Polish family policy. I am glad that the government continues its pro-family policy in 2016. The draft government law introduces numerous facilitations for families with children. Projectors, among others. wish to extend the list of entities that could set up nursery or children's clubs and abolish the requirement to have two separate rooms: a living room and a bedroom. In my opinion, the introduction of these changes will facilitate the establishment and operation of these facilities. It will also reduce the costs of the hosts, which in turn will reduce the costs incurred by parents sending the child to a nursery or a children's club. The changes introduced are intended to increase safety in childcare institutions up to 3 years old. Among other things, it is required to check new employees for sexual offences in the public register. In my opinion, this is a good solution that will ensure the safety of children and calm parents who send their children to institutions that care for the youngest. Large ease and reduction of costs will result in the possibility of running nursery or children's clubs in one preschool place. Such a solution will increase the availability of these institutions for parents with pre-school and nursery children. In my opinion, the introduction of food standards developed by the Food and Nutrition Institute will improve the quality of meals administered. In addition, the creation of parental advice, which will serve as a consultative role, will affect the choice of wholesome meals. I also consider it appropriate to supplement the current list of qualifications of staff employed in crèches or children's clubs with additional courses of study and to agree to work with children in crèches or children's club for persons who have a higher education in any direction of study whose thematic scope covers issues related to the care or development of a young child. An important issue in my opinion is the introduction of additional requirements for staff, among others. concerning 80 hours of supplementary training and participation in first aid training every 2 years. In my opinion, additional requirements will contribute to the safety of children. The purpose of the bill on the Charter of the Large Family was to introduce solutions that would support families of many children and at the same time build their positive image. The Large Family Card gives the entitled a lot more privileges. Children in card families are provided, among others. cheaper access to recreation, which in my opinion will positively affect their development. The rights to the card are also to be obtained by parents who have raised three children, regardless of the fact that children are now adults. In my opinion, this is the right solution because of the equal treatment of citizens by power. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceeding on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u152	In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to refer the draft to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in addition. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government bill amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws (prints Nos 1561 and 1594). I would like to ask Mr Arthur Soboń to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft amendment to the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. The joint committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure after first reading and considering the draft law at its meeting on 6 June invite the Sejm to adopt the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, as Poland, we are still facing a great challenge related to housing. In the European Union, we take 24th place in terms of residential space per person: 27.6 m2 in Poland with an average in the European Union of 40 m2. Every tenth Pole dreams of having a bathroom, one in five apartments in Poland does not have heating, and every thirty Polish family does not even have running water. At the same time Poland has as many as 83% proprietary housing resources, while e.g. in rich Germany, more than half of the population of the country lives in rent apartments. In 2015, the average housing resources in the European Union were 486 apartments per 1000 citizens, and in Poland only 363 apartments per 1000 inhabitants. We therefore lack about 1/4 of the number of apartments for the European average. At the same time, it should be stressed that the years 2016 and 2017 represent the next years of growth in the sales of apartments on the primary market. In spite of this, the housing deficit in Poland reaches 7 and 8 million premises, and more than half of Poles have no chance of borrowing and buying their own apartment. Those who have taken credit often occupy it with great effort, including many generations of the entire family. One might wonder, putting aside problems concerning foreign exchange loans, what would happen today in Poland if interest rates increased and returned even to levels from 2012, i.e. to levels before interest rates were reduced. According to analysts, anyone who's borrowed 100,000 in the last period. PLN for 30 years, will pay today a instalment of about PLN 505 per month. Every 100,000. PLN is PLN 505 per month for 30 years. Returning to the 2012 interest rates, counting this into today's instalments, is PLN 715 per month for every 100,000. zł borrowed in the bank. This is an increase of 42%, which poses a huge risk to domestic budgets. So can Poland afford to close the housing deficit and build the missing housing estates for Poles? Let's try to count it. Assuming the price for 1 m2 of the apartment does not exceed 3 thousand. PLN, the cost of the standard 2-room apartment is approx. 200,000. zł. Assuming the market meets the needs of between 120 and 140 thousand. apartments per year, assuming that the need is over 200,000. Apartments per year, we would have to spend up to 12 billion PLN per year from the state budget. The total cost of closing the housing deficit is probably over PLN 400 billion from the budget. Of course, such money will never be able to afford the budget, and therefore the National Housing Programme provides for different building support instruments for different groups of customers. One of them is launched on 1st November 2015 the housing promotion programme in the field of social rental construction. The scheme was implemented under the Law of 26 October 1995 on certain forms of housing promotion, as amended by the Act of 10 September 2015 amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws which entered into force on 25 October 2015. The financial preferences granted by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego were directed to qualified investors: social housing companies, housing associations and municipal companies, carrying out projects aimed at building apartments for medium-income households, in particular those who raise at least one child. According to the programme, over 10 years BGK will provide PLN 4.5 billion for the programme, while the state budget will be less than PLN 752 million. This funding is intended to ensure that at least 30 000 are created. apartments for rent with rent to medium-income people. According to the Act, the condition for participation in the programme is the conclusion of an agreement between the investor and the municipality, within the framework of the local housing policy of the local government. The draft amendment to the Act presented to the High House is the result of an analysis carried out after the first edition of the submission of applications, including on the basis of information provided by social investors in the rental building and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Designed solutions are designed to facilitate investors' implementation of their projects, including in the form of cooperative housing. Currently, it is possible to apply for financial support only for the construction of apartments for rent. The proposed changes allow the financing of other usable areas which will serve to meet needs, e.g. older people. The obligation to enter into an agreement between the borrower and the municipality was waived, indicating a minimum number of dwellings, the tenants of which will be persons raising at least one child, at a level of not less than 50%. all the locations. This was to a large extent a barrier to participation in the programme in the case of local communities with lower participation of families with children. Preferences for the raising of children will, of course, remain strengthened by the point criterion set out in the Regulation. In order to facilitate the financing of projects implemented under the social housing programme, the maximum amount of the tenant's participation in the building costs has been increased from 25% to 30%. This will provide greater flexibility required at the funding stage and will also affect the relatively lower rents in the resources of social housing companies. The formula for calculating the amount of participation reimbursed in the construction costs of the dwelling was also clarified. The project also increased the income limits for renting a dwelling where the construction of the premises was linked to the conclusion of a participation agreement providing for participation in the costs of an investment and construction project at a level of not less than 10%. The reason for the amendment is that the amendment of the Act of 10 September 2015 lowering the level of income limits could in some cases cause difficulties in enforcing from the tenant claims arising from the use of the apartment in the event of a loss of employment by one of the household members. An important change for the tenant is the adoption of more flexible rules when the tenant exceeds the income thresholds set out in the Act. Resigned, among others. the obligation to automatically increase the rent rate in the case of a small even surplus of household income. I would like to ask the High House to refer the draft amendment to the law for further examination in the joint committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u154	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur very consistently and thoroughly presented the draft in print No 1561 concerning the amendment of the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. The purpose of this draft law is to assist in applying for feedback funding under the government's housing promotion scheme for social rental buildings. The amendments to the Act are based on the assumptions of the National Housing Programme - that is our programme, the Law and Justice Programme - and the conclusions of the first stage of the implementation of the plan to promote housing in the field of social rent building. This implementation was launched in November 2015 on the basis of the Act of 10 September 2015 amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. The changes are also the result of investors signaling the problem of barriers in terms of participation in the programme, i.e., the lack of financing for cooperative housing rights - this is an absolute condition of 50% allocation. housing for people who raise at least one child is about overcoming this barrier in financial assembly - as well as arising from problems related to the further operation of residential premises built under the programme. I'll get to the details. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 of the Act is proposed to amend paragraph 1. Article 2 15a. The argument is this: as regards the admission to the housing programme for cooperative housing, housing cooperatives indicated the difference between the new social housing scheme and the scheme implemented by the National Housing Fund. That was the attention of the housing associations. As regards the modification of the article. 15a - for example, I am discussing, because I am unable and today there is no need to read every article - it is an important amendment of the article. Article 15a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 point 3 of the Act. Here is the conversion of the obligation to enter into an agreement between the borrower and the municipality of the obligation, respectively the borrower or the municipality, indicating the minimum number of dwellings created as a result of the implementation of the investment and construction project covered by the financial support under the scheme, the tenants of which will be persons who raise at least one of their own or adopted child, to the obligation to include in the said agreement a provision setting out only the planned number of such apartments - i.e. we are converting this obligation into the planned number of such apartments. Article modification 15e of the Act consists in adding paragraph. 4 - in accordance with the proposed amendment in the event of the expiry of the cooperative tenant's right to housing, the housing cooperative shall re-establish in respect of that cooperative tenant's place the right to housing. When it comes to lips. Article 2 15e, it is its content that is clearly prohibited to separate not only dwellings built using feedback, but also other parts of investment and construction projects, e.g. garages, parking spaces. In the case of block construction there are also places that should be subject to this provision. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 in the project is a proposal to amend the Housing Cooperatives Act, which excludes the possibility for the cooperative to transfer the ownership of a residential property created by the use of reverse financing. This is about the proposed article. 12. New wording of the article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act gives the possibility to include in the rate of rent co-financing of dwellings in the stock of companies not only from credit resources but also from the issue of bonds. This is a very important change, because this is what cooperatives have sought. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Act proposes to limit the possibility of cession of participation without the consent of the company only to employers and legal persons. This solution is intended to prevent the existence of so-called. trade in participation. This is a quite famous phenomenon that needs to be protected from. There are a few more articles like this. This is a very important article. 29a paragraph. 3. there are also changes in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2a, add in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1b. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In accordance with you, the rapporteur, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, is in favour of further proceding this law in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u156	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk will now take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u157	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! As I listened to the rapporteur's speech, I felt that housing policy had become a domain only of the Government of Law and Justice, as if no government had previously conducted housing policy. I'm amazed because the bill we're debating today is changing the bill that's been over 20 years old, to be exact. 22. This means that earlier governments have also implemented this housing policy. Why? Because housing is a basic condition for the harmonious functioning of the family, and the Polish constitution defends the family. The last major amendment of the Act on certain forms of housing promotion took place in September 2015. Then the coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party proposed a number of changes. It is good that, after almost 2 years of operation of this law in a modified form, we make some summary and propose some adjustments, but in the explanatory memorandum we read - and this fact was recalled by both the representative of the committee, the rapporteur and my previous speaker - that within 10 years we want to gain about 30 thousand in this form of housing. apartments. I must remind you that during the years 2008 to 2015, i.e. during the 8 years of operation of the coalition of the Polish People's Party and the Civic Platform, over 1 million apartments were created in various forms of housing construction, exactly 1187 thousand. - 1187,000. - and it's worth reminding. We have to shout out loud: the apartments were built by the previous coalition, for 8 years we managed to build almost 1,200 thousand apartments. As part of the forms co-financed by the government, as part of the programme, the residence for young people, and previously the family on its own, continued, because it was prepared in the basic aggregates in 2006, but after changing the parameters it revived, we built almost 250 thousand. apartments within 8 years. And yet, also in the past year, i.e. in 2016, the programme of "The Living for the Young" was continued, this year it is continued, and it is very successful and the funds for the current year, i.e. 2017, guaranteed by the budget were exhausted already at the beginning of the year in January. In April, the envelope of funds available for next year was closed for 2018. This is the success of the programme. Let's add that, on average, tens of thousands of contracts are signed per year under the "Youth Accommodation" programme. Let's get this value together with this volume. We can get 30,000 here in 10 years. housing in support of housing. I do not speak against this form, I believe that this form needs to be corrected and developed, also the construction of rent, but let us not take away the opportunity of Poles [[♪ The bell ♪]] for your own apartment, let's continue the program of living for young people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. The changes that will be introduced by the proposed law are primarily intended to allow for the financing of the construction of additional usable areas, which have among others. meeting the needs of the elderly. This applies e.g. recreational or outpatient spaces. The maintenance costs are to be borne by tenants in different parts. In order to facilitate the financing of the project under the social housing programme, the project increased from 25% to 30% the maximum level of the tenant's participation in the construction costs of the dwelling. We believe that this solution should have a positive impact on maintaining relatively low rents in the social housing society's resources. The project also increases the income limits for the rental of a dwelling where the construction was linked to the conclusion of a participation agreement providing for the participation of a person participating in the costs of an investment and construction project at a level of not more than 10%. A natural person who has entered into an agreement with the company may transfer the rights and obligations under that agreement to the tenant he or she has designated, provided that the tenant is a spouse, a relative or a relative of that person. In conclusion, these solutions are intended to eliminate barriers to return funding under the government's rent promotion programme and the problems arising from the operation of residential premises built under this scheme. The changes are intended to facilitate the implementation of projects by allowing the possibility of financing the construction of cooperative housing. Currently, it is possible to apply for funding and support only for the construction of apartments for rent. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 is, of course, in favour of continuing this bill in committee. This is the right way. Every good solution, including the previous coalition, should now be supported, because we know that housing needs are still enormous. I stress that as a person who builds apartments. I'm an architect, so I see the demand for housing, for housing. These solutions, hopefully, will go in that direction, that our cities, our families, new generations will have a place to live. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u160	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u161	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and some other laws following the presentation of the committee report. These are 1561 and 1594 prints. High Izbo! The draft law submitted by the Government concerns a programme to promote housing in the field of social rent building launched on 1 November 2015 on the basis of the provisions of the Act of 10 September 2015 amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. In line with the justification, the submission aims to eliminate barriers to applying for return funding under the government's housing promotion programme for social rent building. Indeed, I see in the proposal some proposals, the consequence of which may be the elimination of some obstacles to the use of return funding. In particular, we believe that such a change is to extend the scope of funding to the construction by housing cooperatives of residential premises to which the cooperative-room right to housing will be established. It's a mistake that it wasn't possible until now. Cooperatives are a key organism in the housing market and can obviously contribute to the popularization of this form of construction. Importantly, such premises will not be sequestered or disposed of. However, if there were ever a temptation to eliminate such a blocking record, it would be a clear violation of the principle of justice. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law also contains provisions to extend the catalogue of financial instruments for crediting construction. I am surprised that we are so late in making use of financial instruments such as bonds, which, after all, are the natural basis for housing investments worldwide. The project also introduces a change in the area of participation. Among other things, it seals the area of assignment and increases the maximum level of participation to 30%. The solution that provokes additional questions is certainly an increase in the income thresholds for tenants who report a minimum of 10% wish to participate. This may lead to a situation where such a minimum contribution becomes a standard. This will undoubtedly bring greater peace in TBS and other organisations using this type of funding. But the question is, is it the right road in social construction for sure? Let me not answer today, I will not answer this question, but I hope that there will not be such a systemic increase in the participation threshold of up to 10%, which would, in extreme cases, result in families who cannot afford to finance such expenditure not having a chance of living under a programme based on such feedback. The Act also introduces new rules for the replacement of premises under TBS and flexible rules for the change of rent. These changes, I would say, are natural and our surprise is that, in fact, solutions have so far been quite complicated and certainly have not facilitated proceedings in cases where there has been a change in the financial situation of tenants. High Izbo! To conclude, I would like to talk about the very controversial aspects of the presentation. The first is to eliminate preferences for those who raise children. The lack of housing is one of the reasons why young people do not choose to have children, to start a family, while PiS eliminates this preference for people with children and also increases the participation threshold. Such a mix of obstacles can cause young families, with young children, to have no chance of living under a feedback programme. Another controversial proposal is to introduce the possibility of financing additional usable areas for older people only. Of course, seniors need our support, and there is nothing to discuss with them, but really, Minister, I do not understand the lack of a similar way of financing the area needed for those who raise children or even children. After all, such families, and children in particular, also need certain additional areas for proper development. For us, this is incomprehensible discrimination against such families, those who raise children. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern make two amendments. The first one maintains preferences for people raising at least one child, but we propose reducing this preference to the volume of premises from 50 to 30%, i.e. 30% in this building was intended for families, children's parents. On the other hand, the second amendment [[♪ The bell ♪]] introduces the possibility of financing additional useful areas for the needs of children. On behalf of the Modern Posel Club, I ask the High House to accept these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u162	Thank you very much, sir. I accept the amendments, thank you very much. And I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u163	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government submitted a draft law amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion contained in print No. 1561, the report of the committee - print No. 1594. I have the honour and pleasure to inform on behalf of the Polish People's Party that - I will start as if from the end - the club of the Polish People's Party will vote for this and is in favour of sending this project to further work. We believe that this area and this subject related to construction, housing provision, has been a very important subject for many, many years and has been valid for many years. I therefore think it is good that an analysis of the existing provisions has been carried out, that conclusions are being drawn and that the comments and amendments that are being made will make the new legislation work well and serve for many years. In our view, it is appropriate, and here I support my previous speakers, my previous speaker, who has tabled an amendment on ensuring and creating preferences for young people and raising children, that is also important... With great respect for seniors, because they have also worked well, mostly decently, their lives and devoted themselves to the next generations, but we believe that in creating these priorities for investment, some solutions should be included in this, so that we can create good, decent conditions for the family and the growing next generation, and also encourage young marriages to plan larger families, which is very important in our country and in our society. You will allow the marshal that I will no longer repeat the assumptions or highlight the elements that are changed and introduced. I believe that once this project has been adopted, it will be able to serve and complement this area of construction in the already functioning programmes that have resulted in a significant number of new apartments over the past period. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u164	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? Then sign up. If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Tomaszewska, Law and Justice, is the first question asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask what number of rentals are currently estimated to be needed. What percentage of this number would be achieved annually under this programme? What income limit was adopted in the new solution? About the article. 12 I would like to ask if the possibility of transferring the right to live with another family member was taken into account in the event of the death of the person who entered into the lease agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u166	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The novel assumes that support will be available to finance the construction of additional usable areas to meet the needs of groups of tenants, e.g. older people. It's about recreational or outpatient rooms. The draft amendment states that the condition for obtaining funding for this purpose will be to indicate in the contract concluded with the municipality the number of housing units whose first tenants or persons to which the cooperative tenant's right to housing will be granted will be the elderly. I wanted to ask - because the costs associated with their maintenance are to be borne by tenants in equal parts - whether it will be clarified what participation of older people's premises will decide on the possibility of obtaining such support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u168	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Visitors to the Gallery! In order to facilitate the projects carried out under the social housing programme, the draft amendment of the law increased from 25% to 30% the maximum level of participation in the cost of building a dwelling. Therefore, I have a question: What factors have these 30% and not e.g. 35%? What analyses indicated - once again I wanted to ask - these 30% ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u170	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the impact of this bill on the public finance sector. It follows from the justification that the project will not result in increased total expenditure, but please indicate how much financial resources will be allocated for this purpose in the current year. The program assumes that about 30,000 will be put into service. apartments in 10 years, or about 3,000. apartments per year. You have to admit, it's a modest effect across the country. How many apartments will be put into service this year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u172	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project assumes that there will be 30,000. apartments. I have some doubts whether, when changing the structure of employment and in general the life of Poles, which is changing, because sometimes it is dictated by the situation on the labour market, there is no need to put more emphasis on building apartments for rent, because then really the mobility of Poles is increasing automatically. Indeed, it was said here that the number of these apartments is not large. I have a question for the Minister. Do you know where 3 million apartments have gone, which Law and Justice promised in 2005? 'Cause if they were, I think it's the $30,000. It wouldn't be a problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u174	Thank you very much, sir. And last question - Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u175	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! By amending the law, we begin with the article. 1. We point out that the purpose of the bill is to promote housing for rent. Of course, the ratio legis of this solution extends the scope of the law also to housing built by cooperatives for co-operatives. It's a cooperative tenant's right to housing. I have a question. During the public consultation, some TBS expressed their opposition to this solution. I understand it's a limited pool of resources. We're gonna have to share it with the cooperatives here. What's the interest of the cooperative? How many cooperatives have already expressed their willingness to use this form of support? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u176	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u177	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This debate is extremely important because we are talking about several components, i.e. opportunities, programmes that support meeting needs. Today we are talking about the law on apartments for rent, but we are definitely amending this law, giving the possibility to buy them out and making e.g. changes in income criteria. This is one segment, this form of support: where there is no credit rating, it is a formula of the possibility of owning an apartment. It is all the more appropriate to ask about the implementation and size of the support for the project, living for young people. Today, in the debate, Mr Grabarczyk spoke about this. Once again, we are calling for this because the Civic Platform has twice submitted a proposal to increase funding for this form of support, so when changing the criteria [[♪ The bell ♪]] It would be all the more legitimate, and I would like to ask the Minister if you would consider it. You give an opportunity through this housing buyout program, give it to those who have the opportunity to buy apartments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, However, some misunderstanding seems to me to be evident among many Members, ladies and gentlemen, because this is - I would like to remind you - only one element of the whole package that will enter into force. Tomorrow, the Committee adopts a permanent act on support or funding for municipal, social, sheltered housing, for homeless people, etc. On the other hand, as to why only 30,000 people, according to the analyses made by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, Minister, Mr Grabarczyk, after the liquidation of the KFM in 2009, as you were Minister, unfortunately support for this type of construction we are talking about today has disappeared. They haven't built TBS in years. There was no more proposal in 2016, there were 18 proposals in 2015, 73 proposals in 2013. Even after the KFM was erased, there were 2,000. TBS proposals. KFM was liquidated, there was no support, no such premises were created with support. The same is true in housing cooperatives. Since 2011, not one apartment has been established in housing cooperatives with budget funding through Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. So that's the $30,000. The apartments we're planning, that's just as much as 30,000. housing that wouldn't have been created if it hadn't been for the change that we're proposing today. The Minister also said that 1.1 million apartments were built. Well, it was built for 8 years, because so much was built in Poland. If this current growth trend in the number of apartments continues, then for the next 8 years, for 2 terms of government of PiS, we will build more apartments, because it will be at least 1.3 and 1.4 million... [[3 million.]] ...without additional support. If nothing is done, so much will be built. So that we can build more apartments... [[I want backup, 3 million.]] ...even though it's the $30,000. And in a moment, tomorrow, the standing committee, I am convinced, will adopt another amendment to the bill, where much more support will be planned, because more than 6 billion, for typical municipal construction, resulting in a further tens of thousands of apartments, which would not be created now. And I'm not talking about whether they're gonna build or they're gonna build apartments and that this week and next week there's gonna be more contracts for a few hundred or thousands of apartments for the BGK Real Estate pilot. These are all new things that haven't been there. We'll continue. And here I am saying that this is a change of law that was passed in August and entered into force in November, which is indeed the previous government introduced it, we are changing it, but we are continuing to do what is good and we are changing what needs to be changed. Thank you for supporting all clubs for this project, because it actually responds to the demand of both those who build social construction, i.e. TBS, housing cooperatives, and those who expect these premises. Mr Suchoń spoke about this 10%. We want to build, as I said, more premises in municipal construction or with the participation of the municipality, because there is also the possibility, for which we will allocate more than 6 billion, and we do not eliminate preferences for families with children, while we remove the threshold, which in practice has often turned out to be simply a barrier. It was not decided to seek support because there was no assurance that the 51% would succeed. get it. The same will happen with a 30% barrier. Any requirement will be a barrier in certain geographical areas. In some it will be so that even you will be able to find 90% families with children, such a demand will be, but there will be such locations, such municipalities that even 30% will not find. That's why we want to eliminate the barrier. On the other hand, in a regulation that we will prepare immediately after the entry into force of this law, we will retain preferences for families with children. So that the preferences will continue, we only eliminate this barrier. I can already say that we will be opposed as a government. And that's 30%, because it's also going to be a barrier in certain locations. We maintain preferences, I repeat once again, but we do not think that we need such a barrier in the form of the 51% maintain. Mr Kotowski also spoke about these 51% So once again, we're not eliminating preferences. Ms Tomaszewska's question. This lack in social housing is currently estimated to be around 160 000. And that's all we want to do with the support that we expect to build within the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in order to meet these needs. In the nearest family members, if there is participation, without the consent of TBS, it can be transferred. You don't need TBS approval here. Mrs Navel. The answer is that as far as the number of apartments for the elderly is concerned, one apartment with an elderly person is enough to finance such common spaces. And here's another answer for those who say there's no preference for families with children. Well, these common spaces will be available to all those who live in a given property, so families with children too. If there are recreational rooms or any common spaces, everyone will have to participate in the cost of operating the room and everyone will be able to use this space. We also set special preferences for older people, because this is the first element of supporting and developing senior policy, which functions in some form, but we want to improve and improve it. There will be further draft laws in this area. Mr Rometsky, participation from 25 to 30%. We are restoring this participation that existed in the KFM. For many years it functioned, functioned well, so we believe that this level of participation is sufficient. From our information from the TBS, it also appears that basically the missing 5% should be sufficient for the proper construction of the financial assembly. As I say, this is the experience of the National Housing Fund, KFM. Mrs Czernow - I repeat what I said earlier, that families with children will be able to use any room that will be shared. If they live in real estate, where these properties are, they'll be able to use it. Mr Meysztowicz asked a rhetorical question, so I will not answer it. Mr Grabarczyk, housing cooperatives - in the first edition two cooperatives came forward, only one was qualified, there was no notification in the second edition. There is a clear interest on the part of housing cooperatives. I think I'm convinced that because every apartment in every form is needed, it's enough for the TBS, and for the cooperative. If it turns out, we will see that there will be so much interest that these measures will be lacking, we will be wondering how to secure the means to be sufficient for everyone. [[I'll hold you to that.]] Mrs Skowrońska - there is no redemption, no possibility of transforming where there is support. Where there is no budget support, such transformation and redemption may be, while where there is support, there is no. As regards MdM, repeated on several occasions: Mr Grabarczyk, the Members of the opposition constantly... [[Let's continue.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government has adopted an amendment to the MdM Act, and this year we will use an additional 65 million. This is also an amendment to the existing law. Unfortunately, after analysing this project, we found that funds were not being used, that this threshold of 95% which has been introduced - more measures we cannot take - caused it to be reserved for those who have a third and another child. Unfortunately, there are still very few families with the third and the next child. I think that their number will grow, and that's what we have to wait for, and the first effects of the 500+ family programme are already visible. It's supposed to work here, too, but it's not working yet. That is why we want to take advantage of these experiences and we are raising the threshold for the possibility of submitting proposals to 100%, because it is 95. Some of those who submit withdraw, some do not obtain a final agreement with the banks, so this year It's about 65 million. I assume that in July the Sejm will adopt this law, it will enter into force on 1 August, so in August there would be recruitment for this 65 million PLN, i.e. approx. 4,000. apartments. So that is the answer to your expectations. I think it's unsatisfying, but please wait until the end of the program. I think we will present other solutions that will satisfy you. They should also help those who so far benefit from the MdM programme and will have other offers to use. That's it. Thank you all for supporting the project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u180	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u181	I have a question about the new wording of the article. 29 in which paragraph 2 is added. 5 referring to the fact that a natural person may transfer rights and obligations under an agreement to the tenant he or she has designated, provided that the tenant is a relative. The relative term is very general and does not determine how close this relationship is to be. Don't you think it could give rise to some inaccuracies and complications in the future? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u182	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate draft law amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices (prints No 1538 and 1616). I ask Mr Kurzepa to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u183	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate draft law amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, buildings and public utilities, print No 1538. The Sejm at its 42nd meeting on 25 May 2017, pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy after considering this draft law at its meeting on 7 June 2017 brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u184	Thank you very much, sir. I just wanted to say hello to the guests. The gallery is attended by members of the Business Council at the Mayor of Sokółka, who listen to our deliberations. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Jacek Kurzepa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I have been particularly honoured by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club with regard to the bill under discussion, print No 1538. I do this with full awareness not only of politics, but also of a sociologist, whose natural domain is to analyze the pulse of social life. I therefore draw attention to the three important advantages of the project submitted from the point of view of the nation's community. Firstly, because of the process of shaping the identity of the nation's community, it must concentrate on historical truth, on the one hand without historical falsehood and lies, and on the other hand around glorious and transparent patterns, not imposed by any doctrine or political correctness, especially when we are fully aware that it originates from totalitarian, criminal, criminal, imposed [[Applause]] a nation that is strong and supported by pushy mechanisms, yet effective propaganda. So this is the starting point, because we know how it was and how it worked. Secondly, today we hand over to the sovereign, the nation's tools to dismantle fiction and deception in a symbolic sphere, to reject objectively defined based on the expertise of the Institute of National Remembrance and unwanted symbols of communism or other totalizm as those for whom there are no places in free, democratic and proud of Poland's history. [[Applause]] In order for us, adults, not only to straighten our necks and raise our heads high, but also for the young generation of Poles to be able to distinguish criminals from heroes, truth from falsehood, glorious deeds from filthy ones. Moreover, the young people proved this need during the last meeting of the Children and Youth Sejm here, in the plenary room of the Sejm on 1 June this year. The provision on the protection of schools, kindergartens, care institutions, education, dissemination of culture from such names is also important in this context. Thirdly, we respect what is unshakable in our culture and in our normative system - respect for the temporal remains and the last resting place, recognising that the provisions of the Act do not interfere precisely in the name of this universal normativeity into the space of cemeteries and graves. For if you expect to respect your dignity to yourself, you must keep it to others, especially when the other one is no longer able to speak on his own behalf. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles! It's a good bill, it's good rules, it's reasonable and balanced. Unfortunately, our political class has grown too slow to throw away the yoke of oppressors, oppressors, murderers in symbolic terms. People had more determination, courage and readiness to clean up our home together. This was done both years ago by the Kovalczyk brothers, KPN activists, for example in Skaryszewski Park in Warsaw, members of many Polish Gazeta clubs or today's MEPs. It was a natural impulse of dignity, the will to purify historical consciousness from the mess and filth, lies, collaboration and falsehood. Today, this bill will do so. Finally, let me say that I have a particular personal reason to be satisfied that I can, as the son of Jerzy Ryszard Kurzapa, who was cursed from the 1952 Zwierzyniecko-tomaszowska manhunt, sentenced to twice the death penalty, submit the full support of the Law and Justice Club for the draft law contained in print No. 1538 on the prohibition of promoting communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u186	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u187	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate draft law amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and utilities, print No 1616. The proposal submitted by the Senate and examined by the joint committees aims to amend the law adopted in April 2016. Applicants propose to introduce the possibility of amending by law the names of schools, hospitals, cultural institutions, settlements promoting communism or other totalitarian regime. According to the proposed provisions, monuments promoting totalitarian systems would also be removed. It should be noted that such symbols are present in public space, in my opinion to a minor extent, but they are. Acting in accordance with the letter of the law, while maintaining common sense, should be gradually removed. I am talking about common sense, because such changes often cause some controversy among local communities. I met with such questions, whether, according to the proposed changes, the name should be given, for example. schools. Partisans of the Lublin region or the settlement of the XXX-years. I think we're going to have to face these problems in practice, in fact. During my first reading, I said that we are debating a project that requires some changes. They submitted their comments to the project, among others. Attorney General, pointing to doubts as to the interpretation of the definition of "other totalitarian system'. Similar doubts were also raised by the minority party at the meeting of the Joint Government and National and Ethnic Minorities Commission. The applicants also did not present, at least approximately, the costs of implementing this draft law. In relation to the original assumptions, the provision defining the concept of a totalitarian system, which requires, among other things, to be regarded as such, was waived. Fascism, Nazism, Ukrainian and Lithuanian nationalism, Prussian militarism, Russian, German. This provision, as I have already mentioned, has met with quite common criticism of the environment. On the other hand, the wording used in the draft law - the one we are talking about - the other totalitarian system - still creates some kind of interpretational ailment. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The project we are talking about is not a perfect project, but given its idea and the fundamental goal of eliminating names and symbols associated with totalitarian systems, we will not vote against the solutions proposed in the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u188	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u189	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 against the Senate draft law amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism. The amendment proposed in print No 1538 on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility facilities should be supported. Such a ban should cover all areas of life because of the great evil caused by these systems to the societies of many countries. The amendment of the Act is necessary, but the gaps still remain due to vague and over-translated records. A lot of work will be done here by scientists from the IPN issuing relevant opinions. Not included, among others. the requests made in the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which rightly indicated that Lenin's bust could not be displayed, but a portrait could be made. It's a paradox that should be removed. Relation of concepts has led to confusion, often intentionally, of respect for the dead with the ideological elements used to commemorate the dead. There are cases where objects once devoted to activities and communist activists are trying to be baptized, changing the records of the tables, not paying attention to the fact that in this way the elements of totalitarian ideology and historical narration before 1989 are perpetuated. The decisive action of the law should be subjected to all forms of glorifying totalitarianism, including verbal, relativizing historical events, representing them in a spirit of gratitude, whether for the Red Army, General Jaruzelski, or for all similar people and phenomena. [[Applause]] The lack of criminal sanctions in the provisions of the law is a mistake and a significant lack, as it has an effective effect on hardened negationsists. maybe just measurable and severe repression. The consequence of the law should be administrative practice - the absolute removal of objects which perpetuate the belief of alleged benefits of communism in various spheres, and the judicial - severe penalties for persons glorifying totalitarian systems and their activities. [[Applause]] Formal and informal education should be followed by legal solutions, which should aim to thoroughly advance the historical awareness and identity of Poles. Important roles should be played: public television, which cannot, according to the misunderstood mission and ratings, promote production from the years of the Polish People's Republic promoting communism. It's like the German ZDF broadcasts the Leni Riefenstahl's will triumph. The promotion of patriotism and the identity of Poles by TVP must complement the objective of the amended act today, not by promoting communist cinematism to raise doubts about its validity. The detotalitarianisation of public space must also change the attitude of public policy authorities towards people and institutions dealing with this phenomenon. Meanwhile, the police, courts and prosecutors are pursuing and ordering such persons. That's absurd. After all, the law demands the removal from the public space of objects promoting the totalitarian system. However, since the Polish state tolerates the activity of the radio Sputnik and finances Ukrainian organizations praising flagism in Poland, the change of mentality from the Polish People's Republic is still waiting for the so-called. It's a good change. It should be a commemoration of those described in this book. Turning to the concrete provisions of the bill, it is worth noting that the prohibition of organisational units and auxiliary self-governments is necessary, because their name - existing or proposed - could give an excuse to smuggle in the glory of totalitarian ideologies. Often, this nickname is accompanied by a plaque with openly communist content, and not even by state officials who make occasional speeches against it. The catalog of objects proposed in Chapter 2 is still incomplete, as it is possible to find the form of technical-artistic expression of an object which is not mentioned in the provisions of the amending act. A classic example here is the image of Lenin mentioned in the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Undoubtedly, the problem would be solved by adding it at the end of the mouth. Article 2 5a after the words "subtitles and characters" and any other forms in the law not specified. Ladies and gentlemen! Kukiz.15 will vote for the proposed law, seeing it as a good move towards changing the consciousness of all Poles, although probably those who still regard Jaruzelski and Kiszczak as people of honor will not change anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I listen to these speeches, I actually don't believe my ears and I wonder if we live in some democratic country or in some democratic paranoia or actually totalitarian paranoia. Whether these housecleaners or these symbolic hygienists, they are simply threatening our reality, not just cultural, but our historical reality. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill is another vivid example of tampering with historical memory. Do you propose to erase 50 years of Polish history in the name of the primitive values of the PiS state, the removal from public space of outstanding works of art of Polish artists? According to estimates from the whole country several hundred monuments, sculptures and works of art may disappear, which do not like the current power, among them works of Hasior, Alina Szapoczników or monuments dedicated to great figures of Polish culture: Wisławie Szymborska, Władysław Broniewski, Julian Tuwim, Jerzy Grotowski. Warsaw, Poznań, Łódź, Wrocław, Opole, Płock, Koszalin, Szczecin are to be deprived of essential elements shaping the new Polish identity. However, maybe, even though you've withdrawn from this record, the Palace of Culture and Science can be leveled to the ground? The fact that there are cinemas, theatres and museums doesn't matter. Maybe we should tear down the MDM after all. What the hell is this MDM doing here messing with public space? Or maybe we need to tear down all the buildings at the pl. Constitution? After all, this is a pawn of socio-realistic architecture. Or should we tear down the Ministry of Agriculture at the Commonwealth? We can tear down all of Poland, in fact, symbolically. What are you getting at? What do you propose in return? More monuments of the enchanted soldiers and Lech Kaczyński? This isn't decommunization. It's a degradation of public space. Should we practice a culture of symbolic retaliation, a culture of sentiment, or a culture of symbolic violence? I am afraid of the next step, which will throw the works of Fangor, Zamoyski or Wróblewski out of the museum halls. And then you're gonna walk into our apartments and you're gonna be digging through our shelves, and we're gonna have these paintings on our walls that you're gonna like. One of the PiS politicians, I listened to this really terrible debate in the Polish Radio, proposed to bring the Polish dignitaries buried there out of Powęzek. Another exhumation? What are you doing, ladies and gentlemen, with the Polish symbolic space? Polish culture is extremely important whether it is good or bad. We have to face her. You can't do this for us, for the citizens, or for anyone. This is the domain of historians and it is also a good law of civil society. It is a good right of people who live in Polish democracy, after all and constantly, and we will fight for it. And we do not support this law, of course. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u192	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u193	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! By adopting today the joint report by the Commission: Administration and Home Affairs and Local Government and Regional Policy on the amendment of the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility facilities, I cannot describe or recall the position of the Polish People's Party issued from this stand at the first reading of the project on 24 May 2017. The Polish People's Party and its members have been attached and are attached to national values, independence and freedom, for which they have often paid a high price. This fact alone empowers me to draw up a clear position on the matter under discussion today. The Joint Sejm Committees on 7 June 2017 proposed to amend the wording of the current title of the Act, correcting it by replacing the existing part by the expression "organisational units', support units of municipalities, buildings, objects and public utility facilities and monuments. Such a change seems rational, for example, because as a result of the amendment of the law, the organisational units and auxiliary units of the municipalities will be burdened with new tasks and obligations arising directly from the disposal of the matter under review today. Thus, Chapter 1 of the amended law rightly defines what is considered to be ancillary units of the municipalities. This chapter deals with the procedure of dealing with a case which is particularly complicated in the situation of service of the voivodship's request. The mere expectation of an opinion shall suspend the period for annulment of the act. Chapter 2 already in the wording of the report of the committee in an enumerative manner against the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by monuments clarifies what or who these monuments previously erected cannot relate to. Enumeratively, constructions shall be replaced, by which the word "memory" must be literally understood. For a reminder: they can be mounds, obelisks, statues, busts, plates and plaques, sculptures or souvenir stones. This provision makes appropriate exemptions on the application of the matter of the law. It is worth recalling that the legislator does not provide for the application of the provisions to monuments located in cemeteries or other resting places, entered in the register of monuments which are not public and artistic or scientific, provided that they do not promote the totalitarian system. The recipe defines quite broad voivodship cultivation ordering both the owner and the user of perpetual property to remove a monument promoting communism or other totalitarian system. The relevant tasks are imposed on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, which follows from Chapters 2 and 3. The Commission also decided on the costs of removing the monument, which will be charged to the owner or the perpetual user of the property. The legislator imposes a special obligation on the local government units, the association of these units and the metropolitan union to remove all the symbols referred to in the amended law within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the law. However, if the owner or user of the perpetual property on which the monument subject to the removal under this Act was located did not participate in the procedure for the erection of this monument, the costs of its removal shall be reimbursed by the Treasury from the State budget. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the report of the joint committees, contained in print no. 1616. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u194	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Members' Circle of the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Around the European Union, the Democrats are critical of this law by the rapporteur of the PiS and the committee. No family merit, which of course must be respected, and before which everyone must bow down to, does not justify untruth, misunderstood reality, forsaking just false solutions. I don't have time for all the untruths that you have been polite to offer us, to take care of, but a few... How can you say something like that on the grounds that the sovereign will decide? That's the point: it's not the sovereigns who decide it, it's the government, PiS-owska majority, ul. Nowogrodzka, PiS, people surrounding Mr. Kaczyński actually decide. Because what's an IPN? The IPN is not a sovereign, it's a PiS-owska outbuilding. Second thing. Why are you even bringing in the Kowalskis? The Kowalczyk, I understand a noble motive, but they blew up the university hall. There was no monument. It was an act... I fought for the Kowalczyk, I was in prison with Richard Kowalczyk, but let's leave the Kowalczyk alone because this action doesn't fit the example we're talking about. One more thing. The very essence of this dispute is that I am - and the Union of European Democrats - for the solution that local governments decide. Okay, if you want the sovereign to decide, then the sovereign is the local government. The Sovereign is not Mr Kaczyński's environment. Looks like PiS thinks he's a sovereign, and he might be bitterly disappointed about it. Next line. We thank you for this solution, actually most of the comments of our circle from the previous debate have been taken into account. This causes us to hesitate, but rather to abstain, only between rejection and abstention. These absurd records of Ukrainian nationalism, Lithuanian, Prussian militarism, what had caused us to conflict with our neighbours, what made no sense at all, there is no justification, have been withdrawn. It's also about respect for graves, the PiS has withdrawn from burying in graves. More exhumations - I think everyone's sick of it, that they're already... I don't know, under the influence of what, but they pulled out of it, just like the records on the entire memorial sets. That's the truth. But on the other hand, it's very little. I don't want to argue with you here anymore, Mr. Kukiz. If someone thinks he's building his position on the sucking up of the ruling party, he can, of course, say what he wants and go into so far radicalism. But I can be mean and say, gentlemen of the PiS, you stopped halfway. You have beautifully justified that all these relics of communism - you used stronger words here - have to be removed. But what a horrible petty thing to do. Then why don't you remove books from the shelves, from the libraries? What a beautiful celebration would be - the burning of books by Michnik, Tuwim, Brzechwa and Gałczyński. They'd jump around that Glinski, Czabański, Bubula, Duda, Mrs. Raven. What a beautiful celebration it would have been. Why do you leave paintings in museums, so to speak, dignitaries or people, or historical souvenirs that we don't like? Why do you leave in peace a number of institutions that should also be liquidated? Here Mr Mieszkowski from the Modern Club has already said that actually part of Warsaw would have to be demolished. I'm very worried about this inconsistency, this pettyness, this caution. Keep moving, gentlemen. I mean, there are huge fields to work with. If you want to remove and rip out evil with roots, you have to go absolutely further. Seriously, it's also about schools. I'd leave the schools to the students, to the teachers. How can you impose a patron on a school? What kind of idea is that? This is a law that has nothing to do with the fact that this is a nation of 30 years... It's a little late, you have to say. The great truth of Józef Wissarionowicz is confirmed that as socialism is built, the class struggle is getting worse. For the PiS class struggle is intensified as a good change is built. But you can say it's far too late, this cleansing comes too late. In general, this bill is an attempt of some kind of political settlement, of dealing with disliked people, of unlike symbols, of an absolutely unsuccessful attempt, of an attempt that questions at all the intelligence of the nation, of the intelligence of local governments, of the citizens. People know best what they should have, what streets, what patrons. This case is closed. It's 30 years, ladies and gentlemen, after Poland regained its freedom, sovereignty and independence. And no digging into these monuments or those souvenirs is gonna do any good. All I can tell you is that it's because, after all, except rhetoric, which was terrible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this Chamber, in addition to this rhetoric, some of our amendments have been taken into account, and therefore perhaps there will be a abstention from the vote next to the European Union of Democrats. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u196	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Tomaszewska, Law and Justice, is the first question asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have bad experiences in Warsaw in the field of actions to remove objects and names that promote communism and its associated characters. I would like to ask whether this new regulation will allow for more effective action in this direction, even in relation to changes in street names or objects. To this day, the Palace of Culture and Science is named after Joseph Stalin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u198	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, Mr Niesiołowski has left, but I must refer to him. Either he's got a problem with diction, or he's hearing. I represent Kukiz.15. It would be good if Mr. Niesiołowski remembered that in the future. On the other hand, I have a question either for the applicants or for the government side that is not there. The problem is that decommunization is necessary in Poland, especially in the mind. I'll give you an example. Henryk Słabek, a professor, wrote a book about Poland's social history in 1944 and 1989, which is recommended for students not only as a reading but also as a textbook. In this book, which is appalling, because based on the articles of the Poor of 1988 and 1989, the same lies and untrue things are repeated as in communist times. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I have a question for the applicants: Is there any chance to raise funds for patriotic, civic and decommunising the minds of the critics of this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u200	Thank you very much, sir. Please, the last question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act makes it clear that the decision to change the name and remove a monument or some form commemorating people associated with this infamous past is taken by the voivode. However, there are cases where people who came from such a period have done a lot for local communities, for different regions, sometimes for the city. The local authorities, who had not made such a change so far, probably thought that this person deserved some commemoration. This law does not allow any possibility for these local authorities to in a sense appeal and show that such changes should not be made. Why do you not allow self-governments to vote, who sometimes know better who was in history? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. To the questions addressed to Minister Jarosław Sellin, who unfortunately had to leave the Sejm, will answer in writing. All these questions will be answered in writing. Do you still wish to speak in this situation? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the very beginning, I thank the parliamentary clubs who supported the proposal for this law. I'm gonna go back to the questions I asked. Mrs Tomaszewska pointed to the Warsaw experience. Thank you very much for this reflection. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in connection with the documentation submitted at the committee meeting, we also had the opportunity to read the factography related to this circumstance, that such objects in Poland, without the Mazowieckie voivodship, are still 460. Not all local authorities responded to a request from the Institute of National Remembrance regarding the identification of such objects. The funds that have been earmarked for this are PLN 5 million. In this hand it is 3.3 million, without the 167 which should still be, as we assume, identified in the space of the Mazowieckie voivodship. She asked about the name of the Palace of Culture and Science. In connection with the answer to Mr Meysztowicz's question, I would like to point out that local governments have a voice in this case. This is not just a question of the voivodeship directive that manages it. It's a year to sort this thing out. In view of the above, the local government of M.S. Warsaw - the same is true for all other local authorities in Poland - it can take the floor, arguing its arguments. The National Remembrance Institute's expertise is likely to appear against this. In this balance, a decision will be made between the two points of view. I would also like to thank Professor Brynkus for this reflection on decommunization of minds. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are looking at today is not just a physical picture of the obelisks, a change of tables or the abolition of monuments, but it is also an invitation of all of us, Poles, to drop the mental yoke of the totalitarian system, so that we allow ourselves the courage to think that Poland without these symbols will be more beautiful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u204	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u205	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circles, I present my position on the report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate bill amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. As I mentioned earlier, the bill is a follow-up to the decounization bill. Undoubtedly, it is an appropriate determinant of actions for local government, which is already obliged that communism should not appear in the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices, including roads, streets, bridges and squares. Unfortunately, the previous law did not cover its scope of names, among others. schools, hospitals, cultural institutions, settlements and monuments glorifying the totalitarian system. Therefore, the amendment of the law is extremely necessary so that Communist supporters cannot harm Polish society. This law returned to the Sejm after the Senate amendment, which crossed out the controversial record of Lithuanian, Ukrainian and Prussian nationalism. During his work on the committee, the Senate's representative stressed that he had submitted his opinion to the IPN, which included: He also proposed extending the law to monuments located in cemeteries. I am pleased that the committee has not decided to table amendments on this matter. I believe that the exclusion of cemeteries as special places of worship for the dead is the right course and should be omitted from the bill. I hope that the implementation of this law, according to the designers' intentions, will result in a symbolic ending of communism in Poland, which will be visible in the form of new names that belong to our homeland. I hope that instead of people deserved for the previous system in the names of schools or cultural institutions we will worship the heroes of our time, our system of democratic freedom, people who really deserved Poland and Poles. About Free and Solidarni will of course support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u206	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Local Workers (prints No. 1324 and 1615). I ask Mr Andrzej Maciejewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Local Workers, print No 1324. The Sejm at its 42nd meeting on 25 May 2017 in accordance with Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred this draft to two committees: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy for consideration. These committees: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy considered this project on 7 June. There was a discussion, there were different voices. And as a result of a vote that was not unanimous, they are asking for the rejection of the draft from print No. 1324, so here we are putting this under consideration by the High House and referring to consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u208	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Local Workers in Printing No.1324, which assumes the removal of the provisions on political offices operating at the various levels of local government, at the entrance, mayor, city president, seniors or Marshal of the voivodeship. The project assumes that contracts with local government staff of political offices employed as advisers, assistants will be terminated as of the date of entry into force of the above law. In the current legal system, individual heads of government, mayors, presidents, seniors and marshals have the possibility of hiring assistants and advisers on the basis of a contract of employment. On the other hand, the Act does not specify the tasks to be performed by these persons in these positions as advisors or assistants. It is also worth noting that the remuneration rules for advisers and assistants are the same as for other local staff. The advisers and assistants shall be entitled to the remuneration appropriate to the position occupied and the professional qualifications held, including the basic salary, the allowance for the long-term work, the Jubilee Prize and all the associated privileges. The liquidation of political offices in local governments will reduce red tape and look for savings in the administration and thus respond to social expectations. The Law and Justice Club supports and will work on this project during the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u210	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Halina Rozpondek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It's happening all over again. This is where the Member has already left the Chamber. At the committee meeting, the majority of the members of the PiS, who are members of the committee, was against this bill. Mr Wolf's last statement was very logical and factual, and I think we all agreed with it. When the proceedings took place in the Parliamentary Chamber, we hear that the Law and Justice Club is behind this bill which, in our opinion, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is redundant. We therefore support for the second time the position of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, contained in print No 1615, and reject printing No 1324, i.e. draft law amending the Act on local staff. As I said, the committee of the local government rejected the proposal, Mr President, by a large majority. Our position is the same. We are asking that this project be rejected because, according to our opinion, it is unnecessary. In the current law, there is above all an optional provision concerning advisers and assistants and most local authorities have not appointed them at all. Moreover, where such positions exist, this must be reflected in the budget of the commune, district or voivodeship approved by the municipalities' councils, powiats or seymikas. It should also be remembered that the number of assistants and advisers is limited depending on the size of the local government unit. High Seym! During the adoption of the Act in 2008, a broad consultation separated this group of employees, which comes to the office with the governor, the governor or the marshal and, after the end of his term of office, leaves with him. This is very clear. Local society, choosing a new governor, a new district council, or a new sejmik or entrusting them with responsibilities again, also gives the possibility to select the closest employees and this society will settle them later in subsequent elections. If the High House had adopted this draft amendment to the Act, today the existing assistants and advisers would have become regular employees of the local government. I would like to remind you that the proposed bill also met with a negative opinion of the environment and local organisations. The Local Staff Act is 10 years old, and I know it - it needs changes, and it is worth discussing them, but not to the proposed extent. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote against the bill and support the position of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u212	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u213	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I could keep quiet now so that we don't exchange arguments for this bill, and there are a lot of arguments. 50 million PLN annually savings of taxpayers, money of Polish taxpayers. Of course, 50 million PLN for many may not be much. For us, for citizens who pay taxes, who often have companies who pay to ZUS, this is a large, important sum. I hear very often the arguments that this is a project that can lead to such a situation that assistants and advisers of people in local governments, in the sejmik, in the powiats, in the municipalities, that these people will actually be employed e.g. in municipal offices. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what happens, that other advisers and assistants are later employed and this local government bureaucracy is growing enormously. I remind you that Poland 26, 27 years ago had 130,140 thousand. officials in public administration, and right now it's almost half a million. We need to realise that adding more people is not only about spending, but also about taking care of them later. After all, these people are entitled to normal benefits, which are due to them as normal workers. Therefore, I do not see the problem here and thank the Law and Justice Club and the initiators of the law, the Kukiz movement, who care about saving Poles. I am not convinced by any argument here, and many will fall against this law. For example, it is necessary that the admirer of the commune enter with new people, because then the layout is clear. Yeah, that's right, maybe that's an argument. I'm just gonna ask you how it's possible that the Łódźman doesn't trust the office he's entering in, in the community where he won the election. I understand that some people dream of establishing different types of applications and policies, not involving citizens, but with the Owl. But those days, I hope, are over. The Owl no longer establishes agreements in companies of the State Treasury and perhaps casts of various kinds of other positions. Ladies and gentlemen, we want Poland that is readable, we want Poland that is economical, we want a good change in local government. No decent uncle will protest this bill. Why? 'Cause she's reading right now. She's clear. The governor wins the election, he comes in, he's got a clerk's camera, and this clerk's camera is for him to do his job. If he does not carry out these tasks, then we must ask what officials we have. I say that they are extremely well-educated, very well-functioning officials and that they should be trusted. And that trust we have to declare. This law, in principle the amendment of the law which removes the functions of advisors and assistants, fully transparently shows how the local government really copes with the local government. If I had become president of the city, I would never have called assistants. I would never call counsellors. Do you know why? Because the office apparatus is well organized enough, and it is quite large - in Częstochowa it is 1300 people. If someone says that there are not enough competent people in the Częstochowa City Hall, where 1,300 people are employed, and in the whole commune the city of Częstochowa, at all levels of public administration, government administration, but local government, the number of employees is 21,700, if someone claims that it is impossible to choose from this number, ladies and gentlemen, the right number of people who will work in the office and will do so already within the framework of this employment money where they are employed, then he is a supporter of this gigantic gratification by the bureaucracy of the state. A decent voivodship will decide to support this law and will be happy that we may have removed the cause for many abuses. Therefore, I invite all of you to vote against the rejection request, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thanking the Kukiz Club and the Law and Justice Club for their support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u214	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Owl, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the law on local workers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with this project for the second time in this Chamber, both with the bill and with the report of the local government committee, which asks for the second time to be rejected. Each of us may ask ourselves why, with such stubbornness, the committee of local self-government, with the votes of a vast majority of its members, including members of law and justice, takes such a position. For a simple reason: because this law is based solely on a lie. Whatever my previous speaker says, the facts are that the premise of this is to show abuse that they claim to have... [[Savings, sir.]] ...to perform in the local government, or the savings that were initially to be at the level of several hundred million, and now the Member is only talking about 50. At this rate, when the third time we're running this project, I don't think you'll find a million. Why? Because we're not talking about fictional employment. We are talking about people who are often employed for poor financial resources in assistants' positions and sometimes advisors. We often talk about people who are employed in the short term, when launching the whole competition procedure to solve the problem, a given case is irrelevant. Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised that the Kukiz club is so stubbornly fighting for local governments to be treated in this way. At the same time, side by side with PiS, you establish laws that allow wholesale release employees and provide the possibility of employment outside the competition procedure of the regional accounting chambers collegiates. Two weeks ago, half of the Kukiz club voted side by side with PiS to make it happen. Earlier, you supported the Civil Service Act so that all directors, all managers, could be employed outside the competition mode. What is one law for all? Well, that's no way to behave. Ladies and gentlemen, the law actually provides an opportunity for up to 10 000 employees in this mode. persons. So? How do self - governmentmen use it? Less than $1,000. persons. These are data presented by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, these are data presented by the local government. Using the options contained in the Act at less than 10% - that's the reality. What I'm trying to say is that the government, once you push this populist bill, will continue to function. Through this law employment will not change for even one job, because for these employees competitions will be organized and they, with experience working in the local government, will peacefully win these competitions. It's just pure hucka, pure populism - what you're cooking for us all here. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why this project - because of this selective treatment - whose sole purpose is to make life miserable for local governments, cannot be further investigated. The Modern Club will once again vote against this project. I hope that other clubs will not be populist this time and will also take this position. [[Applause]] [[That's bravo, rejecting the motion for rejection.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u216	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that Mr Jaskóla, who said from this stand that no decent uncle will protest this bill, does not really know or know local governments. With the aim of employing employees, assistants, people to whom you have full confidence, whether there will be this bill or not, every governor, every local governmentman will do just fine. Unfortunately, this is an example of unnecessary regulation, an example of what we want or don't want - it has been flourishing in our parliament for many years: every year there are several hundred laws, because something, something, has to be adjusted. Mr Jaskóla, I was the president of almost two terms. Later she separated the bill, and it was impossible to combine the function of Member and Uncle. I was the councilman of the provincial sejm. I was also, as you know, almost two terms minister of agriculture. In my second term of office, I resigned from the political office, and I don't think there were two resorts in this office. You don't need laws of the kind that make a good host know how to behave. Unlike central surveillance, to which, I see, you are starting to follow Law and Justice, people downstairs know perfectly well whether the employed officials are competent and necessary and whether they are actually dealing with matters. If they're incompetent, just like in the last municipal election... Over a third of local government officials have not confirmed their mandate. It is clear that social verification is the best way for the administration to function efficiently and that there is no such excessive expenditure on its functioning. Instead of dealing with unnecessary regulations, I would advise you to look for other, more interesting ideas for the functioning of the Kukiz club15. At first, you said you were gonna take out the assistants, you were gonna take out the political offices. In order to have the support of the Law and Justice, you have already withdrawn from the political offices. For you, the local government is the salt in your eye, while the central administration is no longer. If you're gonna treat it like this, you're gonna treat it like one. And I want to make it clear on behalf of my club that we will not vote in favour of a law that introduces unnecessary regulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of questions? If not, I'm closing the list. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, asks you as the first question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's $10,000. people, advisors and assistants working in local governments, to whom the government of this Act wants to glue a patch of incompetence. I definitely disagree with that. Counsellors are persons employed for a specific purpose who are appropriately qualified for specific tasks. The second group are assistants whose salaries barely exceed today's minimum wage. This law will not introduce savings in the local government, because competitions will be launched for these people, for the specific tasks they perform. These people will be selected and employed in the contest mode anyway. That's the truth, unfortunately. Do we have to take away another freedom from city and commune loaders, which is how they organize their jobs? Where did you get the 50 million spent, Mr Jaskola? [[♪ The bell ♪]] At counselors? The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration gives data: 25 million, according to a survey conducted among local governments, so please tell me where you invented this amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u220	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u221	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u222	Please, Mr Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club. There's no envoy. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I could ask the question: How much populism is in this bill? I won't even wait for an answer. 100% populism. The claim that you're making savings, you want to do it with PiS... Why don't you criticize the Misiewicz who earn tens of millions of zlotys? Why aren't you looking for savings here? Why? That's because when it came to filling out public television positions, you and PiS first got along to put your people in there. Hypocrisy, deception, and simply pure populism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u224	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Jarosław Zieliński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I won't answer so many questions, because they weren't there, if I say so... [[How wasn't it?]] ...if we treat these questions as questions to the government, please. I will refer to what was not formulated as a question, but was said. On the other hand, I would also like to talk about the government's position, which is why I think it is worth taking the floor. But just so we know what we're talking about. Here there were various numbers, precisely in the statements of Małgorzata Nałępek in particular, e.g. 10,000. advisors and assistants. We don't have accurate data, it really needs to be emphasized, because the data we've provided... [[On your side, I do.]] ...as the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, they are incomplete because only 3/4 of municipal and district authorities have answered the questions that have been addressed to them in this regard. This was part of a voluntary survey, so here we do not have precise data, but from these data which we obtained this way, it appears that at the moment it is employed as assistants and advisors of 941 people and it costs about 41 million PLN per year. If you'd consider... [[The Member did not ask...]] If you'd just listen, I'd be very grateful. If we take into account the possibilities offered by the Act and the conversion factors which are enshrined in the Act of 21 November 2008 on local staff, I will remind you that in accordance with Article. 17 of this law are the following conversion factors: in municipalities up to 20,000. there may be three persons employed as assistants and advisors, in municipalities and districts up to 100,000. residents of five people, in other municipalities and voivodships, i.e. in large cities and voivodships, up to seven people. Together, this would provide the possibility of hiring 9870 advisers and assistants if these limits were fully met. Here in the club speeches there was a difference which, I think, among others. it follows that it was during the PO-PSL coalition that this law was amended to the extent we are talking about - I will remind you - 21 November 2008. Today, the Council of Ministers adopted a position on this parliamentary bill. This position of the Council of Ministers, with certain reservations, is positive for this project. This is a conclusion: the Council of Ministers welcomes the draft law on amending the Act on Local Workers in Printing No. 1324, but the government draws attention in this position to the fact that in 2008 the declared aim of the amendment was to legitimise a certain state of affairs, i.e. the fact that persons who were actually performing the functions of assistants and advisers were employed in official positions. This amending act was therefore carried out for readability. So that the Council of Ministers draws attention to the fact that the method of employment of current advisers and assistants is such that, in the event of conditions for termination of their employment contract, and today they are very closely associated with those who employ them, i.e. the mayors, mayors, presidents, there is a two-week notice period. In the draft law, if it entered into force in this form, without changes in the legislative process, the employment contract would be terminated automatically from the date of the entry into force of the law. The Council of Ministers also stresses the fact that from the data that I have already mentioned to you, the data we have at our disposal - they, I repeat, are incomplete, but this is how I presented them - it appears that only some local authorities employ advisers and assistants, so it can be treated as such that the liquidation of these positions should not cause any great harm, since there are not so many of these positions, because there are less than 1 000 of them. as declared. The costs will decrease in the range already mentioned, i.e. the amount of about 50 million, as you say, we have here about 41 million PLN. [[Voice from the room: 125%.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It should also be stressed - I am already saying this from myself at the moment, it is not in the government's position, but I would like to say, it may be an important argument in this discussion - that if local governments declare apoliticity, and in many cases it is so, or the parliamentary clubs that introduced this law in 2008, they believe that local governments are apolitical, and that there is a process of idealization of local government when they discuss local governments, they do not need political offices. [[Applause]] And whether they're called that directly or not, they're actually fulfilling this role, because these are quasi-political offices, you can say, and that's what the Council of Ministers uses in its position. In fact, these are just political offices. It seems that it is also a misunderstanding to identify political offices in government departments with political offices in local governments. [[But you promised to eliminate the political offices.]] However, these are two rather different matters, and I think you, Minister, will agree. And here, I think it's a good thing, therefore, that in the draft law of the Kukiz club15 there is this one thread, not both, because then probably the discussion would be more complicated. So once again, the government's position is positive. Of course, there will probably still be work in committee, perhaps the bill will be adjusted somehow, but as to the essence of what is the main purpose of this law, so as to eliminate this possibility of employment, which is given by the current regulations, the position of the government towards the parliamentary bill submitted by Mr Kukiz15 is positive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u226	Thank you, Minister. Here you are, the draftsman of the committee, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As we have heard, a similar atmosphere was also on the committee. As we can see, there is no unanimity here, and a lot of arguments were also made in committees. You can see there's a need to refine it, convince yourself. After all, as a member of the Kukiz club15, I wanted to say one thing. In the case of POs we can talk about the list of POs and the list of shame, in the case of PSLs we can talk about the list of PSLs, but there are no Kukizowiczs. Well, it's just so weird that... [[Speech outside the microphone]] That's the number of people I'm asking for. The question is why the Platform has bigger TV posts than Kukiz15... [[On TV.]] ...when we've got people there. Well, then we're not doing so well unless we have citizenship accepted. [[Applause]] Show me Kukiz's viewing posts in relation to Modern, PO, PSL. Why is Kukiza less if we have people there? [[Because you have nothing to say.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you've been going into populism and you've been saying the same thing for eight years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u228	Thank you very much, sir. [[Your Marshal, formal motion.]] But about what? [[We would like the position of the government, since it is and is not presented to the Members in committee, to be presented in writing before the vote.]] Will that be possible? Is there a chance... Because you told the minister there was a government position. Will it be possible to present it to the Members? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Seym! Yes, of course, the government's position, as I said, was adopted today, so it can be presented... [[That's before the vote.]] I'll give them to the marshal in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u230	Thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I was briefing them, but, of course, I'm going to pass on a text that will be the position in extenso handed over to your marshal in his own hands in a moment. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u231	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels, I present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Local Workers Act. The projectors stress that the changes introduced by the Act meet social expectations, as it will save nearly PLN 50 million. The very idea of changing designers is good, but I believe that there is no accurate and complete data in this area. Not all voivodships were able to obtain the necessary data, which in my opinion would allow me to assess the number of people employed as assistants or advisors. I must also stress for the second time that not all of us have the right knowledge in every area. Therefore, in my opinion, hiring assistants and advisers at the level of self-government and state administration is essential for the smooth functioning of many offices of different levels. They should not only be perceived by the economic prism. Often their work contributes to the successful implementation of projects in various fields. The arguments put forward by the designer are not convincing to me. Projectors claim that assisting and advisory positions are often linked personally to persons in a given local government unit with managerial functions. It's hard to imagine an employee not getting involved in the success of his employer. The basis for fruitful cooperation is mutual trust. The termination of the employment relationship on the date of entry into force of the procedated amendments to the Local Staff Act is incompatible with Article. 30 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Sixty-three, sixty-sixth of the Labour Code. It lacks the task of assistants and advisors. They are appointed by the heads of office, but this does not mean full freedom to shape responsibilities. Of course, it is important to eliminate the illegal employment element without any competitions. During the committee's work, it has been stressed on several occasions that those who are currently in assistant and advisory positions will start to move to other positions where they will be fully employed. This situation, in my opinion, will start to generate a constant and at the same time higher cost of living for local government employees. The committee claimed that the employment of an assistant or advisor was linked to the continuation of a specific project. Not every local government unit has assistants or advisers. Each authority shall decide on a case-by-case basis. The Act contains a provision that regulates employment without a competition of assistants and advisors depending on the number of inhabitants of a given local government unit. I do not understand the reservations about the work of assistants who were previously involved in political work. Thanks to their experience, the employer is guaranteed not to be a random person but to have a wide range of knowledge in various fields. I agree with the decisions of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, and in view of the numerous doubts raised by the draft law, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u232	We will proceed to the vote on the committee's motion to reject the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and some other laws (prints Nos 1494 and 1595). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u233	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The Government's draft law amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions and certain other laws, print No 1494, aims to implement into the Polish legal order Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment as a seasonal worker. The draft law on the amendment of the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and some other laws entered the Sejm on 13 April 2017. was sent to the Sejm's meeting. During the 41st session of the Sejm, on 20 April, the Marshal of the Sejm moved the vote to the next meeting on the referral of the bill to the committee. On 25 May this year, at the 42nd session of the Sejm, the first reading was held. The project was addressed to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. On 7 June 2017, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, with no votes against and with 7 abstentions, examined the draft and requested the High House to adopt the Act, print No 1494, in accordance with the print of the report of Committee No 1595. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u234	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions Act and some other laws, print No 1494. This law is the implementation in Polish law of Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for employment as a seasonal worker. In addition, the amendments aim to seal the procedure for short-term work by the citizens of six countries, i.e. Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, the Russian Federation or Ukraine, on the basis of a statement by the delegate at the county labour office. The Directive introduced requires Member States to introduce conditions and procedures for granting residence permits and seasonal work for foreigners. The Act also aims to reduce the identified fraud related to the system of declarations. In addition, it introduces changes of order and sealing nature in the issue of work permits for foreigners. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, in support of the project, requests that it be passed on to further proceding. At the same time, I submit 10 amendments to the project on behalf of the club. Nine of them concern the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions, and one concerns the Foreigners Act. Most amendments aim to make the rules more flexible and reduce administrative burdens, especially for farmers and fruit farmers, as they concern a new seasonal work permit. The proposed changes will allow: quicker assignment of work to a foreigner, immediately on the day of transfer to the labour office of the required documents after the entry of the foreigner to Poland, and in the case of holiday days or days free of work of the office immediately after the entry of the foreigner to Poland - provided that the required documents are transferred to the labour office on the first day of the office's work, the amount of information contained in the application is reduced to the minimum necessary and that the person entrusting the work to the foreigner has the funds to pay the seasonal workers, by deleting as grounds for repealing the seasonal work permit. One of the amendments consists in reducing the lower limit of penalties for entrusting the foreigner with illegal work to a level of PLN 1000, as in the Labour Code for offences against the rights of the worker. On the other hand, for the sneaky introduction to the illegal assignment of work to a foreigner and for the illegal execution of work by a foreigner should be maintained to the level of 3000 PLN. One amendment obliges the Minister for Labour to publish in the Public Information Bulletin every month information on the state of use of work permits or declarations, provided that the limits are introduced, which will facilitate the recruitment of employers in good time. The other amendments are specific or aim to ensure consistency with current or proposed solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u236	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the government draft law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and some other laws. The report is contained in Seym Printing No 1595. During our first reading, we stressed that the project is essentially aimed at sealing the declaration procedure for the citizens of the selected six countries and implementing Council Directive 2014/36/EU on seasonal work. To some extent, however, it also introduces changes to the procedure, in quotes, of standard permits issued by the voivode. During the work in committee, we came to the common belief that the fight against fraud should be accompanied by the creation of effective mechanisms for the proper employment of foreigners, as they are an essential element in reducing potential irregularities. It should be stressed here that the possibility of legal and effective employment of a foreigner is crucial in the current situation in the labour market in terms of the proper functioning of domestic enterprises, and in particular their competitiveness. Since some of the issues in the project raises our doubts, I would therefore like to make three amendments on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The first amendment concerns a change in the body that will be competent to grant work permits to foreigners. We'd like to propose a transition from voivode to voivodeship. These voivodships are 16, the old men are far more. It seems that the proposed solution will be more effective, it will be more efficient. Today we are getting signals that the time limits for examining applications for these ordinary permits are several months, and often more than six months. The consequence of this change is the need to amend several other articles of the project, as well as the law in force today. In addition, we propose that the period of 9 calendar months should be counted from the start of seasonal work. That's what Amendment 3, we're reporting, isn't it? We also propose to include foreigners applying for a permanent or temporary residence permit in connection with marriage with a Polish citizen. That's what our Amendment 2. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the report in Parliamentary Printing No 1595 together with the amendments tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u238	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions and some other laws. I am sorry to note that the specific nature of the seasonal work carried out by farmers has not been taken into account in the contested law at all. This seems highly puzzling, especially given that on 9 March, a month before the draft law was introduced to the Sejm, a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was held, during which farmers drew attention to the unfavourable provisions, the consequences of which would be the abandonment of agricultural production, especially in smaller farms, and another wave of economic emigration. Minister Stanisław Szwed, present at the meeting, took note of the opinion of farmers on this subject, which is unambiguous: treating agriculture as much as industry will lead to collapse in gardening, planting and soft fruit production. It is evident that the directive aims to weaken the leading role in the production of fruit and vegetables of the new European Union countries. The Act is part of the policy of the countries of the old Union which, in order to improve the profitability of their agricultural production, increase labour costs in the countries of the new Union. I would like to make you aware that Poland is a tycoon in fruit production. In terms of exports of fresh fruit, we are in second place after Spain, and frozen fruit is exported more than the other countries of the European Union combined. The berry fruit sector alone is the basis for maintaining around 200,000. farms, mostly small ones, which together with families and supply and advice companies are a source of nearly 1 million people's livelihood. People who, in the event of a loss of their jobs, will be forced to emigrate and become seasonal workers in Western European countries. Does the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy consider such consequences of the proposed regulations? Furthermore, I would like to point out that the law is written in complete isolation from the natural, climatic and economic realities of Polish agriculture. In the opinion of the Ministry, it is the weather and cycle of agricultural production that should adapt to regulation rather than regulation that should fit our climate and agricultural production. Poland as a labour market for seasonal workers is not financially attractive, therefore the problem of lack of labour in agriculture as well as in other sectors of the economy will grow. Reducing bureaucratic employment procedures to carry out seasonal work enabling fruit and vegetable producers to collect agricultural fruits should be a priority, as this determines our competitiveness in European and global markets. Unfavorable rules are very easy to bring to an end the fruit and vegetables sector, but it is much harder to return and rebuild production, as we all know very well, because similar things happened to other branches of the Polish industry. It is worth noting, however, that the market does not know the vacuum, therefore the place of Polish producers will gladly be occupied by German or French growers. Therefore, on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I submit seven amendments to your Marshal, which take into account the specific characteristics of agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u240	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Michael Jaros, the Modern Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u241	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present an opinion on the bill amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and some other laws, prints no. 1494 and 1595. The draft law aims to implement the 2014 European Parliament Directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for employment as a seasonal worker. The aim of the Act is also to seal the procedure for short-term work by the citizens of six countries: Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Russia and Ukraine. This provision was to be adopted by 30 September 2016. It was not only about the adoption of the law, but also about the implementation of implementing and administrative provisions. The Modern Club supports the bill. The situation on the labour market has definitely changed positively in recent years. You can see the difference between the end of the 90s, the beginning of the 2000s, and what's happening in the labour market right now. It's the employer who's looking for an employee, not an employee who's looking for a job. This is, of course, good for workers, because we remember the social impact of the huge problem of high unemployment. On the other hand, the rules that we amend this law are primarily in the interests of entrepreneurs who need hands to work. Undoubtedly, the introduction of these rules will radically facilitate their acquisition. We are happy with the many rules that are being introduced. These changes are going in the right direction, they are beneficial and will certainly be welcomed not only by entrepreneurs but also by the entire market. It must be said that the number of seasonal workers - but not only - already employed in the Polish economy is very high, which is visible in my city, in Wrocław, where almost 70,000 workers work. Ukrainians, and very good, because it doesn't cause problems in the labour market. On the other hand, I would like to say that actually in every county there are workplaces where this percentage is already a few dozen percent, so it is worth working on this law. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the course of our work, we reported as a club. Modern two doubts, which we believe have not been resolved. Let me remind you, the first one is about limits. In accordance with the rules, limits may be introduced by means of a regulation drawn up by the Minister responsible for Labour, Economic Affairs and Home Affairs. The second question concerns the issue of assessments when issuing declarations of intention to entrust work to a foreigner, which have been made for appearances. Since our doubts have not been resolved, I am making three amendments to your Marshal's hands on behalf of the Poselski Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u242	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u243	And I cordially ask the High House to adopt the bill, as well as our amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are discussing de facto the Act on seasonal workers in agriculture, because this is the basic content of this Act, although we are talking de facto about the Act on the Promotion of Employment and Employment Market Institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I wish to express my regret that the proposal I made at first reading, so that this project should also be examined in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development as a fundamental part of Polish farmers, has not been taken into account. Then perhaps we could have less discussion at the committee meeting, which will be convened in a moment. The number of amendments - I, too, will make such amendments - shows this. In fact, in relation to the current situation, which is the possibility of hiring third-country nationals for seasonal work in agriculture - the declaration method, we can say that this project is a restrictive project, so it does not in fact promote, does not facilitate employment, but rather makes it difficult. Of course, the authors, the government, are hiding themselves here on the issue of the EU directive, but not quite so, because in many places many of the provisions contained in this law go beyond the scope of the directive by introducing restrictions. What are the most difficult and difficult restrictions for employers, Polish farmers, gardeners and fruitists? First of all, the fact that a simple statement, which was only registered and authorised for the Ukrainian citizen with whom we want to establish a work relationship, can obtain a visa, will be replaced by a permit, so there will be a decision-making process. You entrust yourself with this mission, it's an old-age job. For this reason, we can already see a kind of narrow throat that in areas of high concentration of production, high concentration of employment of outside citizens, foreigners for seasonal work, district labour offices, and starosts will not be successful. Employment offices are already unable to register statements themselves today, let alone to say when it will be a procedure of authorisation. One of our amendments, PSL, is to replace the governor with the governor, so that the governor, the municipality office, which is closer to the potential employer, deals with this business, not the governor. Secondly, the timing of the decision. We know what is characterized by seasonal work, that it is very often done ad hoc, depends on weather. Therefore, these time limits must be shortened, they cannot be as long either in the normal procedure or in the appeal procedure. For this reason, we are also proposing an amendment. Finally, the form itself, which will form the basis for applying for authorisation, for authorisation, is complicated. I am pleased that there is an amendment that simplifies this form. But today he contains a lot of information that is not needed to properly issue this permit. Finally, the issue that is quite debatable is the matter of a place that will be entrusted to a foreigner doing seasonal work to live in this place. In my opinion, and according to the PSL Parliamentary Club, these regulations, which the Act contains in this respect, are too far-reaching. In our view, it would suffice to make a simple, simple statement or to ensure that such an apartment is provided in an appropriate standard. The next thing you know, it's the fees that are related to it. Today, I will remind you, the printing of the statement, its registration is free of fees, the need to pay fees, for example because of this it is more attractive than the procedure proposed by the government. The issue that raises considerable controversy is a matter of limits. It is quite imprecisely written in the bill. It is said that such limits may be applied, may be taken into account. They will be analysed on the basis of how many people have already arrived, how much work has taken place, what is the situation on the local labour market. This may also cause a narrow throat to appear, that these limits may not be enough from the point of view of, for example. an agricultural holding or from the point of view of an administrative unit of one or other self-government. We are therefore also concerned that this will be more difficult than easier. I would also like to say that to this day most of the postulates, ideas, which reported the environment directly interested in them, and thus the environment of Polish farmers, fruit farmers, gardeners, were not taken into account - most of these postulates were not. And the environment does not say otherwise than in this way that this law makes the competitiveness of Polish agriculture difficult and worse. At the same time - already today I want to signal on behalf of my club - because we have many imperfections in this law and in other regulations today, many difficulties which make this important sector of the Polish economy more difficult, we will soon report a bill which will not only comprehensively regulate the arrival of foreigners, but also comprehensively regulates the employment of seasonal workers on the basis of other possibilities than those offered today by the Labour Code or the possibility of signing civil law contracts. I report, Your Marshal, on behalf of the Correction Club. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Our decision to vote for this project or against it will depend on what will happen in the committee, as will both our amendments and the amendments tabled by other clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u246	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Ewa Tomaszewska, the Law and Justice Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister what is the estimated number of foreigners looking for seasonal work in Poland and what is the demand for this work among Polish employers. It seems to me that due to good economic demand this demand increases and will not result in difficulties in employment of Polish workers. At the same time, this may reduce the rate of increase in salaries of Polish workers. Black employment usually means breach of working conditions and additional burden on the State Labour Inspection by controlling where foreigners are employed. In particular, there is a lack of respect for the minimum wage in this group of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u248	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Art. 88g provides that if the time limit for lodging an application for renewal of a work permit with the same employer and on the same post has been maintained, the stay of a foreigner shall be deemed to be legal from the date on which the application is submitted. I wanted to ask: How will the cases of people who have been employed so far be treated? I know such cases when the employer asked the voivodeship office to extend the working time of a foreigner and this application was considered after a few months, in the meantime the State Labour Inspection went to the workplace and punished the employer, the employee was sent to the border service, he is threatened with expulsion. Of course, there is still the possibility of appealing to [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Foreigners' Office, but the question is: How will these cases be resolved in such cases? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u250	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a similar question as my predecessor. I know a case in which in December Ub. r. the employer applied to the voivodship for authorisation. The employee worked and could work until March. In April, a State Labour Inspection inspection came in and ordered the employee to pack. To this day, this permit is not issued. Don't you think the Minister's approval should, however, go down the ladder, which is to the old men? And my second question. It's about limits. Tell me: How will the Ministry develop these limits? What's the limit level? Based on what criteria? Will employers know what the criteria are before, whether it depends on the situation [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the labour market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u252	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u253	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! My question is more strategic than just this provision, it is about pointing out what the Polish labour market will look like in the future. At one of the meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, the Minister for Development and Finance pointed out in his report how many workers would be needed and showed that they would be employees, among others. from Ukraine. So, in the case of this project to improve the possibility of granting temporary work permits, do you have an assessment of what the horizon will be, or how long will you prepare such an additional report? Whether the State or the Minister is concerned that, in connection with this opening for Ukrainians, although it is tourism, the possibility of traveling to other European countries Polish labour market [[♪ The bell ♪]] will it be less attractive for those who want to go west of Europe and work in black? But most of all, I'm talking about this target strategy, at least in the horizon of 5, 10 and 20 years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u254	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Work in agriculture, gardening, orcharding is less paid for. It's also a job, a lot of which cannot be mechanized. Without the possibility of flexible employment of workers outside the European Union, these departments will lose their competitiveness. I have a question for the Minister: How does the Ministry intend to compensate farmers for the losses incurred just as a result of the very often cessation of fruit and gardening production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u256	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is the EU directive that these changes that we are discussing today are being introduced in Poland. However, Minister, there are indeed needs when it comes to additional hands for work, especially in agriculture and construction. These solutions are very useful and we should do everything to make it possible to legally employ foreigners in these areas of the economy, because really the hands to work in construction and agriculture, especially in the case of seasonal work, are missing. I would like to ask: Is there any need for these hands to work, especially for seasonal work, in Poland as much as possible, that the proposed legal solutions will not limit the legal employment of foreigners on the Polish labour market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u258	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Polish farmers, Sadists and many other entrepreneurs are highly dependent on workers from Ukraine. Unfortunately, this bill rather than making it easier to hire, it makes it more difficult. Farmers and fruit farmers are very concerned about the implementation of this project, because many limitations, the need for expectations, complicated forms, as well as fees - all this will cause a worker from Ukraine to wait a long time, and seasonal work is up to date at a given time, it is not possible to wait with the employee's employment when the harvest is ready to harvest. I therefore think that we should think very strongly about the implementation of this directive, because this proposal will make the situation more complicated than just [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ukrainians, but mostly Polish entrepreneurs. We're gonna lead to a very bad situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u260	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about one of the terms imposed in the bill's novel, which could cause problems. It's about art. 88. 13. It indicates that the person entrusting work to a foreigner whose declaration of commission to a foreigner has been entered in the register of declarations, in writing informs the competent district labour office of taking up work by the foreigner at the latest on the day of commencement of work. Is such a deadline feasible? Is it worth taking into account the demand to extend the deadline to 7 days? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u262	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The question is very short and very simple. Did you present this project, and these principles that you have presented, provide and give the opportunity to establish a relationship between a Polish employer, a Polish farmer and a Ukrainian employee on the basis of a work contract? Will a work contract be able to be applied in a relationship of this nature? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u264	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the limits. Will the introduction of limits de facto push foreigners into employment in the gray area? Isn't it supposed to be complementary to Polish workers? Hence the questions. Why are we introducing a minimum wage for work here, since it could be, for example, part-time work or a contract that doesn't meet the minimum wage requirement? It's an art. 88. 1. There is also a question about the question of an article that says that the voivode makes a negative decision on the work permit if the current limit has been exceeded in a given year. That's the question. If an employee worked in Poland for a year and then there was a kind of exhaustion of the limit, will such a person be expelled from the country because he will not be allowed to work in a given profession due to the exhaustion of these limits?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u266	Thank you very much, Member. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the discussion, for supporting the draft amendment in general, but also for the questions. I would like to answer these questions in two categories. One question is typically the seasonal directive that affects farmers, gardeners and the tourism industry. Of course, one of the demands is not to implement the seasonal directive. Let me remind you that we have an implementation procedure concerning the non-implementation of the directive, the deadline for implementing this directive was 30 September. r. It is possible to adopt such a principle that we do not implement any directive and pay penalties for it. I don't think it would be worth it for you as a whole. Indeed, the seasonal directive concerns these three sectors and requires authorisation. The second area of activity, which has been conducted in Poland for many years, is the so-called area. permits for short-term work on the basis of statements in the case of six third countries, so they are called, of course, citizens of Ukraine. Now we have to settle. This relationship, when the seasonal directive was not implemented many years ago, mainly concerned agriculture. It's not like that today. Today agriculture is still a leading group that benefits from this simplified system, but today the whole economy, including construction, trade, services, benefits from the latter. 70% claims already apply to industries other than agriculture. That's what we're dealing with, what we have to deal with. As far as agriculture is concerned, the talks we held in both the agricultural committee and farmers, particularly those producing the so-called ones. Soft fruits are designed to adopt such a principle that this new formula of authorisation is as simple and as easy as possible. We also introduce a number of facilitations, among others. we extend at the request of farmers the period of validity of this authorisation to 9 months. We're introducing the so-called. a multi-season visa for 3 years. After a year, so to speak, legal work will be available for this 3-year visa, so you will no longer need to apply for these visas again. We shorten the deadline for issuing a statement from 3 to 7 days, i.e. the county labour office, where this task remains, within 7 days it must issue a statement of work permit. In more difficult situations this is a 30-day period. We have also introduced, at the request of farmers, a change that, up to 30 days, a third-country national working in agriculture may be entrusted with other work. If there is a change in weather and there is no work in agriculture, within 30 days such a worker may do other work for this farmer and there will also be a permit. We are changing what Mr Arndt asked. The point is that someone is waiting for this request from the voivodeship and has this job as illegal. That's what we're changing. Now, if he re-appends on time, the entire waiting period will be treated as legal. Even if the voivode refuses him and decides that this stay is already an illegal stay, the period during which he worked will be treated as legal, i.e. it will not be treated the other way around. With regard to the transfer of all permits to the gesture of the elders, this discussion, also within the government, was going in the opposite direction - to pass all tasks to the voivodeship offices. We've kept this statement and permission part in the old days because it's easier to get here. I don't really think we're going to go downhill with this - we already have good experiences, even last year, when it was 1300 thousand. statements, county labour offices have dealt with this - all the more so now that these offices will also receive additional funds, as we are introducing a 30-gold payment for the declaration to eliminate part of the so-called. fake statements, made only to obtain visas. Although the situation is also dynamic because, as you know, visa-free travel between Ukraine and European countries has been introduced since 11 June. Of course, there are travel visas, biometric passports, but that also changes the situation somehow. It's a limit issue. These limits, I remind you, are defined in the Act as optional. They are dictated only by certain reasons. ♪ One more thing ♪ ♪ One more It's for security reasons. I don't know, there's a large group of foreigners gathering in one place in the country, and it could be a threat. That's one reason. And the second reason is the situation on the labour market. Today we have a situation where we need third-country nationals, mainly from Ukraine, because we lack hands to work, especially in these professions I have been talking about. But it may be that the situation on the labour market will change. And it's dictated. So there won't be any surprise here that we're introducing this, that someone here is going to try to make a difference. As far as this year's cases are concerned, there are over 700,000 complexes at the moment. statements. Let's see how much change we need. The amendments to this law do not yet apply this year, because, I remind you, the bill states that the Act enters into force on 1 January 2018 and there are transitional provisions, i.e. those persons who will be registered on the basis of statements from this year, will be able to use these statements again next year. We do not regulate matters related to the Civil Code or the Labour Code in this law. It's like a different plot. There was a question about the contract for the work. If it is an agricultural work contract, it can of course be executed, just as an order contract. Here, the control bodies already have a field for action. As far as additional information is concerned, because there are also relations with other countries, it would be a perfect solution, of course, but we do not have it. Three European countries were outside the Directive as a result of the negotiations for the adoption of the previous directive. This is England, Ireland and Denmark. We don't have that option. We are included in this directive, and that is why we must also apply these rules. As regards the amendments, these amendments, which were tabled by the Law and Justice Club, are still going in this direction in order to make the law more flexible and easier to apply. Other amendments will be addressed at the committee meeting. As far as issues related to further work are concerned, mainly agriculture, we are working together with the Ministry of Agriculture to find even better solutions for this group of farmers, although one of the debates also proposed to apply such employment models as are. in France with wine picking, and these are models that are based on the Labour Code or in other countries. It's not as easy as it seems to some people that you can go there and work without any laws. These changes, which we are making, are decisively improving the situation, making it more flexible and, on the other hand, introducing rules on the seasonal directive or introducing new solutions to these three economic sectors: agriculture, sadization, tourism. And all the actions we have taken are going in this direction to make it easier for this professional group to work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u268	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions and some other laws. The main objective of these amendments is to implement Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Directive concerns the conditions of entry and residence of foreigners for employment as a seasonal worker and the sealing of the authorisation procedure for short-term work. The implementation of the directive into Polish legislation introduces significant changes to the law, which expands the current system of admission of foreigners to the Polish labour market. The amended amendment provides for the modification of the current system of registration of work return claims, in which there are currently many abuses. In addition, the Directive introduces seasonal work permits and identifies agriculture, horticulture and tourism as three sectors of the economy in which such work may be of a nature. Importantly, all third-country nationals will be able to apply for this type of work. This is undoubtedly a significant extension of the current employment opportunities of foreigners on our market. Among the proposed provisions are also a number of such ones that guarantee the safety and decent conditions of employment for foreigners. The Directive requires that they have the same level of protection, inter alia. to cover them with the appropriate insurance system, which is guaranteed to Polish citizens. In my view, such provisions of the Act will have a positive impact on the reduction of discrimination against workers coming to us from other countries. I also consider it a good solution to introduce optional limits for work permits issued in a given calendar year. When setting limits, account will be taken of the needs of the labour market and the principle of complementarity of employment of foreigners with Polish citizens. I am convinced that this solution will have a positive impact on the reduction of a number of pathological situations, such as. issuing false statements on the assignment of work. The procedure at the county labour offices and consulates has so far been extended due to the registration of such apparent statements. In practice, this has led to the fact that employers actually in need of an employee could not get it quickly. A reduction in the size of these abuses will certainly also serve to introduce a one-off fee for the employer's assignment of work. Among the proposed regulations is also the possibility of creating a labour register for foreigners. In my view, this is a noteworthy solution that will affect safety and at the same time improve the monitoring of the labour market situation. Detailed regulations on work permits for foreigners in Poland are necessary. There is also a need for legal influx of immigrants into Poland, because labour resources in Poland are decreasing from year to year. The legal influx of immigrants is important for the smooth functioning of the economy as well as for the social development of the state. There is no doubt, however, that the legislation under discussion today will be a burden for employers. These solutions will extend the administrative system and procedures and increase expenditure from the state budget. The changes are linked to the creation of 200 new jobs. However, this is a small price incurred in exchange for the benefits of the bill submitted. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u270	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 25 hours 15 min 28]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Health Committee on the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction (prints No. 812, 812-A and 1270). I ask Mr Grzegorz Raczak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Health Commission on the draft law amending the law on anti-drugs, prints 812, 812-A and 1270. The draft draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction aimed at enabling the use of cannabis pharmaceuticals for medical purposes, hereinafter referred to as the draft, entered the Sejm on 1 February 2016. On 5 September 2016, he was assigned to work in the Health Commission. On 20 October 2016, its first reading ended. It was then referred to the Extraordinary Sub-Committee, which met four times, concluding its report on the draft adopted by the Health Commission as submitted, together with the self-correction, on 7 February 2017, print No 1270. The Health Committee's report required an identification procedure which had ended at this stage. In the current draft law of 29 July 2005 on the prevention of drug addiction after the article. 33 the following Article shall be inserted: 33a-d speaking among others the fact that hemp herb other than fibrous and extracts, pharmaceutical tinctures and all other pharmaceutical preparations of hemp other than fibrous and hemp resin other than fibrous hemp referred to in Annex 1 which is a list of narcotic drugs to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction may constitute the pharmaceutical raw material referred to in Article. 2 point 40 of the Pharmaceutical Law Act of 6 September 2001. It's a very important point in the bill. The recognition of cannabis pharmaceutical preparations as pharmaceutical raw materials makes it possible to use them for the preparation of prescription drugs after obtaining a marketing authorisation issued by the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products. To obtain this permission, of course, you must meet the relevant requirements. The conditions to be met by the licence application and other elements which it should contain are set out in the text of the project. There is also a delegation for the Minister of Health to issue a regulation setting out the model for the proposal. In order to clearly define the different stages of the manufacture of pharmaceutical raw materials, it is proposed to divide into two stages. The first stage is the preparation of plant material as a source of the active substance intended for the manufacture of pharmaceutical raw materials. This means grinding dried parts of plants and carrying out physical and chemical operations leading to the extraction and packaging of these substances. The next step is the production of the pharmaceutical raw material itself, which consists in repacking the substance properly from the bulk packaging to the packaging in which the raw material will be delivered to the pharmacies. It is important that the production of pharmaceutical raw materials does not mean cultivation of plants. This is important, it was a point of dispute around which long-term discussions took place. The adoption of the formula that cannabis herb and pharmaceutical preparations made from it can be pharmaceutical raw materials means that it can be used as a means for the production of medicines, which in turn means that it is subject to the criterion of general monograph according to the Polish Pharmacopei and European Pharmacopei and is subject to the supervision of the chief pharmaceutical inspector, so it is ensured that this remedy available in pharmacies will be safe for the patient. The safety of the patient, for whom the measure will be used, which has not yet undergone a complete set of standard clinical trials, is particularly important. At the same time, by recognising hemp herb as a pharmaceutical raw material whose registration is simplified, it can be legally available at a rapid pace. This will allow physicians to use cannabis pharmaceuticals as one of the means to reduce pain and ailments such as nausea or vomiting in cancer patients. These are undoubtedly the advantages of this project... The current shape of this project is an undoubted compromise between the world of science, which approaches the opinion about the healing properties of cannabis herb with reserve, and the world's emotions resulting probably from good intentions, through which the eyes of the imagination can now be seen more than you can see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u272	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will be taken by Mr Grzegorz Raczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the law on anti-drugs, prints 812, 812-A and 1270. The project has been a long way from the starting version to the current version, a road filled with long discussion and sometimes great emotions, a slow transition of the parties to the dispute, at least those who did not treat the problem solely as a political game, from extreme attitudes to the great difficulty of compromise. I think we have such a compromise at the moment. What is this compromise? On the one hand, there are conditions for relatively rapid legalisation of the use of cannabis pharmaceuticals in the care of cancer patients with chronic pain, maybe other patients, sometimes very hard on people, and I trust that the use of these medicines will take place in patients in whom other treatments used so far have not been adequately effective. Oil from hemp herb or other preparation prepared on the basis of a monograph describing the production process of this oil will be available as a pharmaceutical product in pharmacies, which is an ingredient for the preparation of prescription drugs. At the moment, you can import medicines made from cannabis herb to Poland, such as Sativex, but the destination import is a troublesome and time-consuming procedure, so the adoption of a law in the current form allows you to obtain a medicine prepared in an authorised pharmacy much faster, probably even in one day. On the other hand, patient safety will be assured in a credible manner, as pharmaceutical raw material will be prepared under standardized conditions, according to general monographs, according to the Polish and European Pharmacopea. The safety of the patient will also be monitored by the Chief Sanitary Inspector. The risk of using marijuana for recreational purposes will also be reduced, which could happen if crops are legalized in our country. I would like to emphasise, and I do so with satisfaction, that through the acceptance of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice described above is possible. The voices of opposition parties who had previously held power for a long time without doing anything for the medical issue of marijuana, despite the current declaration of great commitment, do not sound credible for this reason. My personal satisfaction is due to the fact that, being a doctor and a scientist who shares doubts arising from the principles of evidence-based medicine, at the same time I think that so-called. Medical marijuana should be available in our pharmacy as a hope for selected patients at a certain stage of treatment. I trust that this will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u274	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We come to a difficult moment after months of concealing this law, avoiding the subject, presenting amendments such as to block this law, delaying your subcommittee from convening this subcommittee, sending letters asking you to join the work. We're working on a bill that was prepared by patients who need medical marijuana. The voices of experts have emerged to confirm the need for its application. Liroy wrote the bill, we have a discussion with the applicants, a multi-month discussion, and we come to a compromise. It is in agreement with the applicant, is in agreement with the Civic Platform, are in agreement with experts, little of it, is in accord with the PiS. But at times like this, it's always your crooked nature. The day came when the PIS Members came and said that the bill would be different. Not much, the minister said he didn't tell them, but he told them. The amount of untruth that appeared at this bill is really showing your intentions. You guys don't want to do this at all. You made a bill without a bill, turned the project upside down. In fact, it also shows your understanding of the state. In fact, when you have to take responsibility and make a decision, consider that you are responsible for something, you run away from it. You are familiar with the instrument of repression against citizens, and you must take responsibility for security, accessibility, cultivation, quality. We have prepared two amendments that actually guarantee patient safety and availability of the drug, because when the Director of the National Medicines Institute declares that we are prepared for this: we have knowledge, we have technology, we know how to do it safely for patients, the Director of the fiber institute says: we know how to grow, we have tools, we know where to draw material, we will release safe marijuana that the National Medicines Institute will turn into a drug and then deliver to patients, you say no. I know why you say that. Because you don't want to touch it because you're afraid of it and you'd rather blame it on others. And you leave today a patient who might have a prescription going from pharmacy to pharmacy and looking for this healing marijuana, and you say, "We've done our job, find yourself a patient." That's your attitude. [[Applause]] And this patient will be going from the pharmacy to the pharmacy. And you leave this poor apothecary who will collide with this patient whose time is running out, who has days to the end, sometimes months, sometimes weeks, or who has been suffering for months. You're gonna send him back from the pharmacy to the pharmacy, and you're gonna have to run and look for a patient. It's such a double morality, and that's what we really see with this bill, this kind of obscuration of values and pretending it's not your problem. Your problem. I have seen the reactions of Members of the Law and Justice when the Minister of Health has not yet engaged in this bill. They said, "This is what we need." Patients came in, they looked into the eyes of these patients. And for months, you've been delaying this bill for months because you don't want to do it. And you came up with the idea of making a bang. You're cheating on all the people who look at you today, that you've got it all figured out. I'm telling you, you didn't get it. These amendments should be made today, but I'm not gonna make them because I know your twisted nature. If we put it together, you'd say tomorrow we have to keep working on the bill, because someone has made amendments. We'll put them together in the Senate to get out of the Sejm after months of working on this bill. In these amendments we are talking about two simple things: medicinal marijuana is grown by a fiber institute, the drug produces National Medicines Institutes, distributes the National Medicines Institute, they get patients. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We make sure this marijuana doesn't get out into the market so it's not used for purposes that aren't what we're taking it for today. And that's all, it's so simple. I wanted to tell you that when you get that twisted thinking straightened out, it's easier for everyone to live. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u276	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I have the honour to present our position on the proposal for a parliamentary bill amending the law on anti-drugs, prints No. 812, 812-A and 1270. However, I would like to talk a little bit about the history of this project. The project already has its long seym history. He showed up on February 1st. R. in the Seym. He was sent to the Legislative Commission at the end of February to decide whether or not we were going to proceed over him at all. The meeting of this committee became a miracle, with one abstention, after a long debate, the Legislative Commission gave the green light to all the groups. Yes, we can continue to process this project. Where did he go? To the freezer. And if it wasn't for the drama of one man who used to sit here in this seym hall, if it wasn't for the drama of Tomasz Kalita and his family, this project would still be in the freezer. He went to the Health Committee in September because of this man's death and earlier because of his illness. In fact, a subcommittee has been established. In this subcommittee, we saw what was happening. Parents' determination... A great bow towards Mrs. Dorota Gudanic, towards Dr. Mark Bachanski. If it weren't for these people, this project still wouldn't exist. Of course, the PiS votes and on the initiative of the PiS this project was really turned upside down, but it is. It's better than nothing. And then this committee worked, there were four sittings, and without any signal, she suddenly stopped working. And here's a thank you to President Arłukowicz. If it hadn't been for his determination, this subcommittee wouldn't have been working again and that project would still be out there somewhere. But we have a positive situation, we're working. I also send thanks to Mr Grzegorz Raczak, who, in my opinion, has done everything he can to make this project... I would also like to remind everyone of the committee meeting on which the European notification was speeded up. Nevertheless, this notification was accelerated by the voices of the criticized PiS. These are the things we need to remember. I know that this bill is not perfect, it has many shortcomings, and above all, the point is that we have committed ourselves to forced import. From an economic point of view, I really do not see any justification that we cannot grow these hemp in Poland as a national crop. That's the biggest problem of this project that's been wiped out. I see no reason for us to be doomed to import from countries such as the Netherlands or Israel, not knowing whether these countries will have any surplus to sell to us at all. And that's a very big problem with this bill. But I also remember the words from the subcommittee or from the commission that the PiS promises that we will observe the effectiveness of this project once it comes into force. If it doesn't work out, it gives a word of honor, promises we'll get back to the subject and improve what we can improve. I wouldn't wait that long, I would already accept what my predecessor said, so these amendments that the Platform proposes need to be introduced in the Senate, because it will really help this project, and above all it will help the sick. [[Applause]] There's nothing to hide. The sick are the most important. In everything I've said, I can't ignore one person without whom this project would be impossible. That's why there are special thanks to Peter Liroy-Marc for his determination, [[Applause]] For having put so much energy into it over the course of that time to lead to this, maybe a flawed, project, but he is. This is a big step forward, and we really need to realise that we are opening up, putting the skies to poor families who are affected by fate, having sick children, people who, unfortunately, do not have a cure for it - are suffering from incurable diseases. Perhaps this bill, though, is flawed, after amendments that may pass in the Senate - there is a chance - it will serve Polish sick people. And for the fact that this bill comes into this House and is being processed, I thank all the groups from right to left. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u278	Thank you very much. Are you Peter Liroy-March? But that's exactly 15 seconds left for you. [[Not at the club.]] [[Member Piotr Liroy-March: I am not within the club.]] If not within the club, you'll have to wait. I need a statement that you're no longer a member of the club. Please, Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club with regard to the report of the committee on the parliamentary bill amending the law on the prevention of drug addiction. The opinions that have emerged on the project itself and the proposed legal solutions are very different. This is probably due to the awareness of the dangers of drugs. Today's debate focuses on ensuring access to medical marijuana, which in many situations is the only measure of relief for sufferers. During the meetings of the subcommittee that dealt with this issue, we have seen many dramatic appeals from parents and carers who face the unimaginable suffering of their loved ones on a daily basis and who cannot help them in any way in the current legal situation. These people even choose to commit crimes under criminal law to ease their loved ones for a moment, so we cannot pretend that there is no problem, that there are few such cases. Polish legislation should have been amended in this area a long time ago. The empirical effects of medical marijuana on people with drug-resistant epilepsy and other diseases are reason enough to promote changes in laws to decriminate those fighting for better comfort in their loved ones' lives. I believe that those in need, despite their various ideas of access to medical marijuana drugs, will soon be able to buy the right remedy at the pharmacy. Over the months of work on the bill, I have met with many people who are to varying degrees related to the subject: from representatives of the foundation by doctors and researchers conducting research to patients who demand access to medical marijuana. After many conversations, I can make it clear that this change is not only very expected by society, but it is something that we cannot delay any longer. I hope that in the future, all programmes and projects for the development of this pharmaceutical industry will be developed in close cooperation with the interested parties themselves and with the very many institutions and local research institutes that deal with this area on a daily basis. The Modern Posel Club will support the procedated project. At the same time, I would like to point out that, as a doctor, I always put the patient's safety first, and in this case it is not at risk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u281	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the law on anti-drugs, prints No. 812, 812-A and 1270. Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently working on a parliamentary proposal to amend the anti-drug law. At first, it should be pointed out that the project, despite its name, has nothing to do with drug addiction. As we move on, I don't doubt that we're all in favour of categorically fighting drugs and drugs. So we drove the devils away, and now we can get to the point. Procededed design is the beginning of a difficult path for patients and doctors. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the aim of the project is to allow the use in medical indications of substances obtained from herb and cannabis resin other than fibrous cannabis. Let's face it: it's designed to introduce a new kind of drug. There shouldn't be any doubt here. If there is serious scientific evidence that will prove effective in reducing the suffering of the sick, it is necessary to lean on such a law, whether it pleases or dislikes it. At the same time, it is regrettable that the subject is not addressed by the Minister of Health. This resort should gather concrete and reliable data on this type of therapy. He should know and show the public how to place medicinal products on the market and access them for patients. The rules should be simple. This physician should be able to use unregistered cannabis products legally and under control in patients for whom conventional pharmacotherapy is ineffective or too burdensome, provided that medical knowledge indicates that it is possible to improve the patient's health or quality of life in this way. At the same time, it is a pity that the Polish government does not want to take responsibility for the production of raw materials in Poland. In our view, this would be a much better solution. The raw material could be fully controlled. It would have been produced in state-owned plants, would have been fully controlled. We already know that cannabis will not be grown in Poland. Drying will be imported from other countries and the medicine will be prepared on the basis of it. It remains to be expected that these solutions are not just a ploy from the PiS that causes de facto restrictions on access to the medicine for patients. Finally, I would like to quote some words from those of you who are most skeptical: Politics is the service and assistance of another man. I don't have the heart to refuse to help a mother whose child has 160 seizures a day. That's where my initiative comes from. Marijuana only for treatment, prescription only and only under medical supervision. I fully agree with those words and I trust that the PiS state will also agree with them, especially since those words were said in July 2015 by one of your politicians, currently Deputy Minister of Justice in the Government of PiS Mr.Patryk Jak. I trust that this position is the same as that of the entire PiS government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u282	Thank you very much, sir. There you go, Mr Piotr Liroy-March, non-member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It took a while for us to get here at second reading. I would very much like to thank from this place, above all, the patient community, the patient families, that they look so patiently at what is happening here. Anyway, I'd like to say hello, because today there are patients' representatives, patients' families, scientists in the audience. Thank you so much for helping them write this bill, as well as supporting them all the time we've been doing all this. [[Applause]] Actually, it's... It's been a rough time, we've had our moments. It started to be quite unpredictable, because the Legislative Commission almost unanimously adopted it. Of course, it did not go without a scuffle, but the bill was adopted. Then the stairs started. Here everything has been said before me and I don't want to repeat myself. I would of course like to thank the legislators from this point on for their patience and support in the self-corrections. It's a pity that this joint work that taxpayers pay for goes to the dumpster because you've really done a great job. We worked very well, greeting the legislators. I would also like to thank the staff of the Ministry for the consultation during the work of the subcommittee. This job, too, unfortunately, went to the trash. But I'm not really here to complain. I would also like to thank the Members of the PiS, the entire PiS Club, of course, for leaning over this bill. It's been a long way, but I'd like to point out that this road has just begun. In fact, as far as the amendments are concerned, as you know, I disagree with some of them. One of the main things I disagree with is... There should be national crops - in my opinion, just like patients and everything else. As I heard before, the crops will not be so that recreational marijuana will not enter the general market. It's bullshit. The experience of all countries that have been practicing medical marijuana shows that this is virtually impossible. The plants are under full supervision, in this case the natural fiber institute, which is under the supervision of the state, and each plant has its own code, so to say this is cheating people. We need national crops for the safety of patients. We created this law primarily for patients. This isn't a bill for us. I hope that none of you here, in the courtroom, will need this prescription and will not have to go to the doctor for help because such, rather than another disease unit, has been identified by a doctor. I wish you a great deal of health and that you never need this law as much as many sick people do. This law is very important, and national crops are very much needed for patients. They guarantee them access to the drug every day. Target import... I am very pleased that this compromise has finally come to some compromise. I have asked some clubs here to be abstinent, so that we do not attack this law with amendments at this stage, because this can unfortunately end with further dragging. That's what patients can't afford at all. These amendments I wanted to make are still to be discussed, discussed. I hope that both the government and the clubs will talk to each other before it enters the Senate, and the amendments tabled will be discussed. I continue to insist, ladies and gentlemen, that we sit down on the matter of national crops. There's really no danger out there. I urge you to meet with scientists, with a patient environment, with a scientific community that can definitely show you that there are no risks. Blocking a bill, blocking a national crop only hurts patients, no one else. Let's not do this thing. I'll keep talking to everyone about it. I hope, however, that the PiS club will look at it again and can be persuaded that these national crops exist to a certain extent. I have to tell you that one way or another we're going to get back to this. After 3 months - from 3 to 6 months - from the entry into force of this law we will see what shortcomings are. Only a company from the Netherlands has a GMP certificate, no one else, so this drought, I know it already now, will be missing. There are ideas for downloading it from other countries, but why, if we can really do it here at our place? This is not enough - for the benefit of patients and, above all, for the benefit of the Republic of Poland, because at a time when we can standardize our own crops and get a GMP certificate, we will be a second country in Europe, which can sell medical marijuana all over the world. In addition to being able to help our patients, we can actually patch the budget hole in a very serious way, because it's very big money, as you know. Nothing stands in the way. I'm surprised. You're saying you're patriots, so what happened that you're not in favour of national crops? This is patriotic: firstly, it protects patients, and secondly, it gives the Republic of Poland money. In this case, if there are no such crops, each other, not Poland, earns. I'd like to say a lot more here, but there's no time. Everyone's told me everything. There's a lot of sick people waiting. I wish that bill wouldn't be blocked any more, so she'd go to the Senate and have the Senate take it. I hope you will consider the amendment on national crops. If not, I guarantee you that we will have to deal with this one way or another, we will have to proceed with it anyway. Thank you very much. I ask all the clubs to vote for this bill and thank you all for your patience. I wish the patients would go to the doctor as soon as possible and get a prescription, and they didn't have to deal with it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the doctor considers us - states - criminals and drug addicts. Thank you very much. I wish you very much health and thank you very much for your cooperation in this bill. Greetings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u284	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. Peter Liroy! Mr Arłukowicz! I have a question for you. You're making this bill, and you're not doing it a little bit. It's a prosthetic thing. Because really, what are you gonna do if there's no drought -- because we already know in advance that it can just be missed -- and this patient's gonna run around the drugstores a mile apart and not get that cure? Why are the government and the minister so afraid to release to those who are suffering, often children, medicines that will bring them relief from suffering? That's why we should make this drug here. You're standing in this, ladies and gentlemen, kind of a stretch. On the one hand, you try to take care of as many groups as possible, to get as many social groups, while expanding your electorate, but on the other hand, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You are very afraid of your own electorate, the kind of iron electorate that tells you no. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't eat a cookie at the same time and have that cookie. That's not the compromise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u286	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to Marcie Golbik, I wanted to welcome the guests from the Opoczno Foundation from the social services centre. We would like to welcome you all very warmly. [[Applause]] Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u287	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that we are dealing with a miracle in this room today. The very fact that we are discussing this bill is a miracle of Piotr Liroy-Marc. But let us not be deceived, it was a year and a half of hard work - stubbornness, hard work and conversations with each Member to support this bill. There is only one thing to be aware of - that during these 1.5 years, however, many patients, suffering from cancer, epilepsy or Parkinson's disease could not benefit from this medicine. And this is evidently our negligence that it will take so long to bring about such a bill. I am very sorry that Tomasz Kalita did not get to discuss this bill. However, I have a question for the Law and Justice, for the Ministry: What will happen, what will you do if it turns out that these drugs are not available? What if it turns out that patients who need a cure and theoretically [[♪ The bell ♪]] They can get it, don't they really have a place to get it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u288	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests at the gallery! Are the changes envisaged to introduce national crops in the future? In order not to import hemp, as already mentioned by fellow Member Piotr Liroy, from other countries such as the Netherlands, Israel. You could grow hemp in our country as a national crop of this raw material, you wouldn't have to put your pockets in other people's pockets so that you could make money on this hemp crop in the country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u290	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start by thanking Mr. Piotr Marc. Mr Peter, congratulations. It's because of your determination that this bill is being considered here. Because we really need to stop hypocritical. I remember 2015 and the governments of the Civic Platform and PSL, and the project of the current Deputy Minister in the Government of Law and Justice Patrick Jaki. I do not recall the determination of Minister Arłukowicz, Minister of Zembala, Members of the Civic Platform to proceed with this project. So, in fact, if someone here is talking about hypocrisy, in a situation where we should all congratulate each other and enjoy each other, then I'm telling the truth as it was 2 years ago. And now I think it's time to put this bill into effect, see how it's going to work, maybe it's going to have to be improved. On the other hand, I am calling for amendments at the moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Care should be taken to ensure that there is no need for a new notification and a further 6 months of waiting for a decision by the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u292	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Medical cannabis preparations are widely used around the world. There are countries where different medicines for various diseases have been produced for over 30 years. Similar demand will be in Poland, certainly not less, we are a very large country. And now that's what I'm saying. We have a problem with Polish breeding companies, we have Polish institutes. These companies are not in good financial condition. And just cultivation by these Polish medical cannabis institutes would significantly improve their financial result. I have a question for the Minister: How does the Minister estimate the cost of bringing medical cannabis drought to Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u294	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Where there is a chance, where there is hope in helping, in support, in giving a chance that maybe health will return, that we will relieve suffering, we should do everything we can to make it so. If medicinal marijuana is just such a remedy, such a medicine, then I think that we should get to it as soon as possible, medical marijuana should be used and treated in Poland, to relieve the pain of those who need it. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, because we know that since 2013 medical marijuana has been available in the Czech Republic: How did the solutions applied by the Czechs work out there, and whether, in view of the fact that this is where the medicinal marijuana is used, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Were there any problems with overall availability or increased drug addiction? I don't think anything like that happened, and it's worth it with these patterns. Czech use also in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u296	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club. There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. There isn't. [[Voices from the room: There it is.]] There it is. Then you can't sleep in the gym.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u297	Excuse me, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a few questions. One question concerns what Mr Liroy-March also asked. Why do you not want to allow national crops not only in the context of medical marijuana but also industrial marijuana? In a situation where more and more farmers have to give up tobacco cultivation, this is how the market changes, that is perhaps a solution to a rather serious problem. Second question. Today we know that many... how many parents who illegally brought medical marijuana to Poland for their children have serious legal problems, including that they are imprisoned in prisons. Are you planning on helping these people now? And I have a third question for you, Marshal. Many wanted to come and listen to this debate today. They were not admitted to the Seym. Your marshal, why? What were you afraid of? [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u298	That's a question I can't answer. This is the decision of the Marshal's Guard and Marshal Kuchciński. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Good practices must certainly also be used in difficult cases. Such good practice is to benefit from the experience of others. This case, of course, couldn't get through for a long time. I'd like to ask the Minister to maybe reconstruct the situation. What is the issue of the use of medicated marijuana in countries that are close to us, for example in the European Union, and why did the Ministry have such resistance on this issue? It's a matter of national cultivation. So you like to describe everything as national, even recently I read that there will be national hotels, and here is a matter so needy, so rational, and you're afraid to enter this record so that... Explain what you're really afraid of. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u300	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, congratulations to Peter, whose determination made this project go through this path at all. I hope that the Senate will be able to make amendments that rationalise this project. Indeed, I am surprised that just law and justice does not want it to be one of our national products. I know it's gonna look bad from the point of view of the PiS that we have national cannabis Indian, national marijuana, but it's okay. This will result in two things that are very important: that this medicinal marijuana will be easier to access for patients, and secondly, it will be cheaper. Request and question: Wouldn't the Ministry oppose such amendments in the Senate, so that this law would actually have the shape it would have from the very beginning? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u302	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... Please answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Zbigniew the King. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will join you, first of all, to these thanks for your determination to place this preparation on the market. I will also point out that this is in fact what we are dealing with in this project, i.e. the marketing of marijuana based preparations in Polish pharmacies. In this bill we do not deal with crops, among others. Because we're under the UN narcotics convention. So that the project of legal authorisation of marijuana for marketing in Poland can be done as soon as possible, as we were able to do, we adopted this solution. This is the answer to a few questions about cultivation. As far as availability is concerned, we do not know the supply that will result from the marketing of medicinal marijuana, which is why it is difficult at the moment to say how a company that is likely to import these droughts will determine its capacity for processing. In many countries marijuana is produced. Looking for the possibility of a drought... We know about markets such as the Netherlands, Israel or plantations in Turkey. There will probably be a demand for supply there too. With regard to the costs of bringing in, it was a parliamentary project, and therefore we did not make this assessment. The cost of about 5 g of drought is about 30 euro, thus it can be calculated, but still the prices of these preparations are likely to be affected. Also supply. If this preparation is used extensively, prices are likely to fall as well. I would not like to refer to the Czech market, because this is a slightly different system than we have in Poland. The Czechs slightly, and even more than slightly, left the UN drug convention, using various kinds of additional possibilities. In Poland they are not applicable; they are not used at the moment. I don't know anything about inmates. We will, of course, check this out, because in any such situation it would probably require special consideration, but I can't relate to it, I just don't know if someone is in custody or in prison because of bringing in their child and the use of the preparation. [[Member Piotr Liroy-March: Some are waiting.]] Then maybe I'm asking for this information outside of this room. We'll try to help in these cases. It's a crop case. In order to grow in a supervised manner, the investment is also necessary, because this special supervision must be properly applied, not only at the time of cultivation, but also the transfer of the goods for further processing. There is no such experience in Poland. Nor is it grown, and in this case, as I said at the beginning, we wanted to apply the current right to ensure safe, effective availability of the product, which is intended to produce the effect mentioned here, which is to help patients with epilepsy, cancer patients, patients with pains that are not possible otherwise. Hence we have adopted the solution that this draft law contains, supporting the parliamentary project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u304	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee asked for the floor. You're welcome. And I would like to welcome the students from the Salesian School Complex in Łódź, who are watching and listening to this point in our deliberations. Welcome to the Seym. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u305	Ladies and gentlemen! Contrary to what Mr Arłukowicz said about the bang, I believe that there is significant progress. We have a project that really changes the situation of legal access to cannabinoids. So far it has been possible to import these drugs through the target import, now we will have an additional opportunity to make recipes, easier, faster, it is more accessible. Someone who doesn't see it, I don't think he sees it all. [[Mr President, you are the rapporteur of the committee, so you must speak on behalf of the committee and not your own.]] Don't interrupt me because you're not having this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u306	But I'm in the middle of this meeting, and I'm asking you to calm down. You speak as rapporteur for the committee, you have spoken as rapporteur for the committee, and please refer to... [[I remind you.]] [[This isn't a meeting. This meeting could be tonight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u307	What I'm trying to say is that what we've worked out, I'm talking about the bill, we've worked out with the mosquito. These were difficult, indeed, conversations. I have met many interesting people - Mrs Gudanec, Mr Liroy - many people involved in achieving something in this area. It was a difficult case and what was worked out was a compromise, a difficult compromise, which gives a formula drug. It does not produce crops in Poland, but if necessary, I also declare to make conversations, so that it is available, as has already been said. Oh, that's what you have to say, B. That's not what I want to say. Mr Liroy has a relatively satisfied face, and Mr Arłukowicz has the most fierce face. Mr President, Minister, you were a minister, you did nothing for marijuana, so you have no moral right to speak about it. It's outrageous what you're doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u308	Mr President, I would like to remind you that you have spoken as rapporteur for the committee. And I'm asking for peace in this room, really. [[Was that the committee rapporteur?]] [[Corrigendum.]] You're welcome. And that's what happens when we get out of our roles.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u309	Mr President, you have acted as rapporteur for the committee. And when you extended this committee's work for months, I didn't see that emotion in you. What happened? Then you had time for everything, you were in no hurry, you were waiting for experts, and you were really waiting for a political decision, not yours, because you were unable to make that decision because you were blocked at political level. But fortunately, there are people who know that and with determination have implemented this law. And they've introduced it now because the first serious expert assessments have emerged, which say that this drug is needed today for patients. The emotions you've shown here indicate that you were actually telling the truth at the end of your speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u310	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the bill is generally to create mechanisms for the possibility of controlled access of patients to marijuana used for medical purposes. The whole debate launched by the original parliamentary project is justified by the desire to alleviate the suffering of the sick and the symptoms associated with certain diseases. If you compare both projects, they differ completely in their approach to the theme of determining the path of this availability. The first project assumed that cannabis-based products used for medical purposes would be products not authorised for the market, but would be a special path with dedicated supervision and regulation system. This is because it is practically impossible to register the medicine in the pharmaceutical market. The applicants concluded that none of the marketing authorisation procedures provided for in the pharmaceutical law in Poland would be possible for the coming years. However, the draft of the emergency committee is based on a completely different assumption - the possibility of using hemp-based raw materials for the preparation of prescription drugs. How does the Ministry of Health assess the time needed and potential difficulties in obtaining a marketing authorisation for these pharmaceutical raw materials?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u312	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Government's draft Act amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents (prints Nos 1410 and 1600). I ask Mr Jarosław Nobletka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I was honoured to present on behalf of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism a report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Government's draft law amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, print No 1410. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism for first reading on 22 March 2017. The Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meetings on 20 April, 11 May and 7 June 2017, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Ladies and gentlemen! The Sports Act in force since 2010 had to be amended as soon as possible. Such a need has already been pointed out by a rather short period of validity of the law, which significantly strengthened the political position of Polish sports unions. This privilege was not fully read, in a large part in the authorities of Polish sports unions, which quite carelessly approached, for example, the alignment of their statutes with the requirements of the current law. This can be demonstrated by the number of decisions issued by the Minister of Sport, whether positive or negative, approving statutory changes in Polish sports unions at the end of 2012. It should be remembered that this position of Polish sports unions was further strengthened in 2013 by the new concept of financing sport pushed by the then Minister of Sport and Tourism, according to which the concept of Polish sports unions was to be based on the central financing of professional sport in our country. The said Sports Act of 2010 established, in relation to Polish sports unions, orders and prohibitions to force them to introduce corporate governance rules, e.g. ban on the annual audit of financial statements by the statutory auditor, ban on the conduct by members of the boards of Polish sports unions of business activities on the subject of the activity of Polish sports unions. However, these records proved to be a fiction, as can be seen from other scandals and scandals, such as those in the Polish Association of Light Athletics - the case of javelin, walkers or corruption in the program of building athletic stadiums, the scandal in the Polish Kolar Union with the construction of the track in Pruszkow, the acrobatic scandal, when a 16-year-old player of the Polish Gymnastic Society The fact that it is bad in Polish sport proved in 2015. The Supreme Audit Chamber, which audited the way the Ministry of Sport and Tourism subsidised preparations for the London Olympic Games in 2012 through Polish sports unions. Most of the Polish sports unions, which prepared our staff for the Olympic Games in London, wrongly spent public money for this purpose, which undoubtedly had a negative impact on the results of sports players and affected Poland's poor medal position on the Olympic Games. I think that the titles of the press articles on this subject speak for themselves: half a billion zlotys drowned. NIK took a look at Polish sports, Polish sports unions ate half a billion! There's a suspicion of corruption! As it turned out, money was only meant for athletes, and it wasn't. The lack of control of Polish sports unions, the cessation of monitoring of the implementation of sport development strategy in Poland until 2015, the lack of a vision of changes and repair of Polish sport by the subsequent management of the Ministry of Sport of the previous coalition led to further adverse developments in Polish sports unions. Such a situation could lead to further preparations of players to compete in competitions, especially the Olympic Games in Rio. These and other situations, as well as numerous voices from the sports community, from the players themselves, trainers, trade union activists, supporters, have determined to take corrective action and the changes presented to the High House in this draft Act amending the Sports Act and the Act on disclosure of State Security Authorities documents from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, print No 1410. Ladies and gentlemen! This is another important step - courageous and important - made by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism in changing the face of Polish sport in an institutional dimension, building a positive image of Polish sports unions, fighting pathology, nepotism, promoting ethical behaviour, excluding corruption and finally transparency and transparency of public spending. The aim of the draft amendment of the law is to increase transparency of the operation of Polish sports unions. The exclusion of the phenomenon of corruption, the already mentioned nepotism in sport, requires a limitation of capital, organizational and personal links with the members of the trade union bodies. Therefore, one of the most important solutions is the prohibition of capital links for board members and their families. Transparency of the activities of Polish sports unions will also increase the ban on the role of a member of the management board of the Polish sports union by former officers of the security authorities of the State of the Polish People's Republic. Those involved in the functioning of Polish sports unions should enjoy a good reputation so that they cannot be accused of behaviour contrary to moral, ethical and legal standards. The project also provides for increased supervision by the Minister of Sport and Tourism of Polish sports unions by examining the compatibility of their activities with the internal regulations of the association, e.g. Rules or instructions. The new solutions will allow to supervise the functioning of Polish sports union authorities, such as the board of directors or internal control bodies, to a much wider extent than before. We're talking most of the time about the review committee. According to the project, the Minister of Sport and Tourism will be able to award periodic sports scholarships to players who, for reasons independent of themselves, for example. injury, uncontrolled fall, exclusion from competition, did not obtain the result of sports entitlement to benefits. This will allow athletes who are in a particular situation to continue preparing for the event of the championship rank indicated in the Act. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also one of the many long-awaited and long-awaited changes that have been included in the draft law by athletes. Then, by symbolically increasing the scope of the concept of sport and including activities considered to be sports also competition based on intellectual activity, the aim of which is to achieve the outcome of sport, we enable in disciplines such as chess, checkers or sports bridge the impact of programs promoting mobility in these sports environments and in an evolving e-sport environment. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remember that the new law absolutely does not align traditional sport with the new sport, e-sport, which is also developing more and more in our country. Increasing transparency of Polish sports unions and preventing conflicts of interest is intended to serve a number of additional restrictions. According to the draft amendment, a member of the management board of the Polish sports association will not be able to combine this function e.g. with work at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. Nor will he be able to train national staff or to serve as a training staff in the same sport. The rules on registration of sports clubs in the register of old age, sports scholarships, prizes for outstanding sports achievements and Olympic benefits, as well as sports clubs forming part of the professional league are also clarified. In the course of the legislative work so far, amendments of the editorial, ordering nature and the substantive amendment which I tabled at the committee meeting were tabled. This amendment concerned the introduction of a ban on the management of the Polish sports union for persons punished with disciplinary penalties for doping in sport in a unit dimension of more than 24 months. This amendment was accepted. High Izbo! Procededed changes confirm the introduction of another good quality change in Polish sport. After the act on combating doping in sport we stand the chance to cleanse Polish sport, especially with certain phenomena of pathology, corruption or nepotism. The new sports law will influence the construction of a positive image of sports organisations, including activists, trainers and players, promotion of ethical behaviour, transparency and transparency in the spending of public money transferred to Polish sports unions by the Minister of Sports and Tourism, and thus hopefully to achieve better and better sporting results by our representatives. At this point, I would like to thank you in particular for your personal commitment and for the presence in the legislative work here in the Sejm of the Minister for Sport and Tourism, Mr Witold Banuka, his colleagues, headed by the Secretary of State, Mr Jarosław Stawiarski, and the Directorates of the Legal Office of the Ministry of Sport. As at the outset, I ask the High House to pass the attached bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u314	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Matuszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Dear Minister, I was honored to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, print No 1410. The project deals with increasing transparency of the operation of Polish sports unions and preventing conflicts of interest by introducing further restrictions on members of the management board of the Polish sports union, introducing a ban on the role of a member of the management board of the Polish sports union by former officials of the national security authorities, improving the transparency of the operation of Polish sports unions, extending the definition of sport to intellectual activity, the aim of which is to achieve a sporting result, introducing the possibility of awarding a sports scholarship in particularly justified cases. On 16 March this year. The project entered the Sejm and after receiving the number. 1410 on 22 March this year was directed by the Marshal of the Sejm to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism for first reading. Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism following first reading at its meeting on 20 April this year. decided to appoint an emergency subcommittee for a detailed consideration of the above mentioned sub-committee. a draft law. No substantive amendments were tabled during the legislative work of the subcommittee. Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism at its meeting on 7 June this year. considered the subcommittee's report. Amendments were tabled and accepted. The introduction of an amendment concerning the prohibition of acting on the board of the Polish sports union for persons punished disciplinaryly for doping in sport in more than 24 months is justified from the point of view of ethical requirements imposed on members of the board of the Polish sports unions. The amendment adopted by the Commission concerning the strengthening of the powers of the Minister responsible for physical culture vis-à-vis the authorities of the sports union, whose members infringe the provisions of the Statute and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, is also appropriate and appropriate. High Izbo! This is another law which leads to a fair functioning of the State under the Act on amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents under the Act on Purification of Sports Structures from Former Communist activists. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In sports there is no place for unrighteous people, there is no place for people who are guided by interests contrary to the spirit of fair play. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice defended, defends and defends the sports community against former employees and officers of the security authorities of the Polish People's Republic who are acting against the development of physical culture in our country. I believe that thanks to this Polish sport will develop more dynamically. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this draft law. At the end of my speech, I would like to stress this and at the same time thank the Minister for Sports and Tourism and the entire management of the Ministry for the very good preparation of the draft amendment to the Sports Act. At the same time, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice at the hands of the Marshal, I would like to make amendments: in Article. 1 in point 2, first, in point (a) and the second indent of point 6, second, of point (a) shall be deleted. c point 6 is deleted. Justification: This amendment concerns the proposed article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 6 and Article 3 Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 point 6 of the Sports Act. The provisions proposed by the Council of Ministers provide for a new ban on the functions of a member of the Management Board of the Polish Sports Association for persons acting as a member of the body, proxy or proxy in entities carrying out business activities related to the performance of its statutory tasks by the latter. Such a prohibition appears to be too far-reaching in the context of maintaining the principle of proportionality. In addition, it should be noted that reservations in this regard were expressed in the course of the parliamentary work by some of the Polish sports unions. Finally, it seems that the scope of the above. the provisions are already partly implemented by the proposed new ban in Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 7 of the project. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Adam Korol, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to present our position towards the Government's draft Act amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, prints No 1410 and 1600. Ladies and gentlemen! Big legal changes await Polish sport. After 6 years of operation of the Sports Act, it was decided to identify a number of areas that require changes. The proposed bill is amended, among others. the definition of sport, restrictions are introduced for members of the PZS or the rules for awarding scholarships are changed. The main objective of the proposed changes is to increase the transparency of the functioning of Polish sports unions, which, according to the applicants, leaves many reservations. This is particularly about public spending. But I don't think you can treat all P.S.S.s alike and think they're all working badly. Many complaints, which according to the Ministry come to the Ministry, do not constitute pathology in the whole Polish sport. We agree that the PZS boards should not include those providing services to the union, the HR trainer or the member of the training staff who receives remuneration for the work for the PZS concerned. The Minister's supervision may be increased by increasing his access to trade union documents, regulations or instructions. It should be borne in mind that PZS are self-governing and independent, and their authorities are accountable to their members. We hope to assure the Minister that this right will only be used in exceptional and justified cases. A good idea, on the other hand, is to introduce rules that are beneficial for players. They are assumed to be supported by the granting of periodic scholarships to personnel who, for random reasons, failed to fulfil the resultant criterion for receiving such a benefit, as well as the extension of the catalogue of places for which sport scholarships are entitled, and the clarification of the rules on the award of badges, prizes and prizes for trainers and other persons who are distinguished by their special activity and who have outstanding achievements in sports activities. At the same time, we support further provisions of the Act providing for the introduction of a new condition for obtaining the benefit laid down in the article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in the form of a lack of a disciplinary penalty on the part of the entity in respect of the person in question for sports doping in a unit dimension greater than 24 months of disqualification. Although during the committee's work we made more restrictive proposals: 18 months and cases of recidivism. It's a pity we didn't have those changes in the bill. Despite the failure to take account of the changes proposed by us, this condition is reinforced by the Article. 36 the assumption that the so-called. Olympic benefit should be granted to a person of immaculate character. The Civic Platform Club will submit amendments to the bill, which Mr Raś will now say. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u318	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Ireneusz Breś, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Thank you for the announcement. I just want to be brief. In 2010, when we were creating a new Sports Act in Parliament, we redefined sports, we created this law to limit pathology. After all these years, you can say that she has achieved success. We had assumptions to increase the autonomy of Polish sports unions, and we will defend this as a Civic Platform. The 2010 Act also gave more scope for public funding for sport, especially in terms of spending from local governments, such mechanisms. We believe that the proposed provisions of the draft government law contained in this report, however, reduce confidence in athletes, and because, even though President Matuszewski spoke about the fact that we are fighting Communists in these relationships and sports, I would like to say that these Communists are long gone. But we certainly can't mirror players or coaches, which is why the Civic Platform consistently, as in the committees, is making an amendment today concerning the invisibility of players and coaches who, in the times of the Polish People's Republic, were engaged in military service in various Guardian or military sports associations. We should not do this, we cannot take away from these titled players and trainers the honor they have among the Polish society. The Minister's and Government's proposal also reduces union autonomy. This control of internal rules seems excessive to us and this is also what we are proposing. We also have comments on this and we are proposing an amendment to reduce a certain organisational rank [[♪ The bell ♪]] sports clubs... 30 seconds. ...which are part of the professional league. You can't walk away from public limited liability companies. They must remain joint stock companies to safeguard the interests of the league and to safeguard the interests of players and coaches who have contracts in these clubs. A partnership with O.O. We have never allowed these clubs to be organized in this way before. To conclude, I would like to mention one more important amendment, which appears to be more widely consumed by the Minister and the Government, withdrawing from the wrong proposal that the founders of the professional league, sports unions should not be able to appoint their representatives to the boards, to the supervisory boards and to perform other supervisory organisational functions among themselves. We also thought, after analysis, that it would be unequal conditions, because professional leagues are created not only by Polish sports unions, but also by the sports club...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u320	Mr President, it is time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u321	...and that, therefore, the Minister only referred to this one part. We think that they should have the right to designate those bodies as competent persons from among themselves because they take responsibility for it. And these amendments all on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u322	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u323	I'm handing over the marshal to you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u324	Thank you very much. And here you are, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz club15. [[I couldn't kiss, but I did.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! This draft law deals with a number of issues which can be broken down into two groups. The first is to add a number of prohibitions applicable to the performance of the function of a member of the board of the Polish sports union, and the second is to extend the definition of sport to competition based on intellectual activity, to extend scholarship programmes for outstanding young people, to regulate the powers of the minister, etc. The current regulation and definition of sport focuses solely on sport as physical activity. The project therefore extends the concept of sport to intellectual activity, allowing for the inclusion of sport types such as: chess, checkers or sports bridge. It is also a canvas to deal with the issue of e-sports in the future. And here's a small request, bow to the Minister. Because at the committee meeting, the Minister himself mentioned that e.g. In France it is regulated by the Ministry of Digitalization, I will take steps to ensure that the Ministry of Digitalization takes care of the e-sport. On the other hand, I hope that the Minister as well as his colleagues They're gonna help us sort it out a little bit. Importantly, the scholarship programme for outstanding young people is also expanding, introducing a certain amount of flexibility. If an outstanding young athlete is unlucky and gets injured just before important competitions, it will no longer be equivalent to the end of support from the state, which often means the end of a career for a promising player. The rest of the Act refers to the functioning of members of the Polish sports union. These are mainly provisions to prevent corruption and conflicts of interest. The Act introduces e.g. prohibition of holding shares and shares in companies working for the union and similar exclusion from members of the immediate family of a person operating in the PZS. Very good changes. We can only ask ourselves how it is possible that such situations could have taken place so far. The Act also provides that former officials of the security authorities on the boards and control bodies of Polish sports unions lose their functions within 6 months of its entry into force. And it will allow you to see if what my previous speaker said is right to be there, whether they are actually no longer there, or whether someone will lose that function. A separate issue is whether an agent's past is to disqualify a very good sports manager. Apart from this, in conclusion, the law regulates a number of issues and it could easily be divided into two or even three projects. We could then consider each regulation individually. In this case, we have to decide on this whole package, but despite some objections, Kukiz15 supports the proposed project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u326	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Sometimes I feel that the Ministers of Law and Justice are sending us laws just to increase their power and have oversight of the growing sphere of activity and control over their subordinate institutions. And so it is in this case, the same. Allow me to quote some of the wordings that have been included in the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office analysing this project and, I will not hide, the dry thread that does not leave on it. I would like to mention a few words here: The proposed amendments to the Sports Act aim to strengthen the position of the Minister responsible for physical culture in his relations with Polish sports unions: to limit the circle of people who may be part of the board of the Polish sports union, due to the extension of the catalogue of activities which exclude sitting in the authorities of the association, and to order up by including in the law - so far regulated by the Minister's regulation - rules on the payment of various financial benefits to athletes achieving certain results in the competition of sports. The proposed changes do not relate to the actual situation in Polish sports unions, and therefore not all proposals contained in the project seem adequate to the organisational and financial condition of all 68 Polish sports unions. The extension of the capacity of the Minister responsible for physical culture to intervene in the activities of Polish sports unions - the assessment of their actions also in respect of compliance with internal rules - seems not only too much interference in the activities of these entities, can also have counterproductive effects. Here you could quote the perturbations of the Ministry of Sport, when it interfered very strongly in the operation of the Polish Football Association. Here, FIFA's response was clear. We therefore have some doubts. The Modern Club will not interfere with further proceedings of this law. I hope that these amendments, which will be tabled, will improve its provisions. I also have great doubts about what was raised by Mr Raś, who left a pen on the platform concerning... [[I'll be back.]] ...history of outstanding athletes who actually, when they functioned, were members of guardian and military clubs. These are athletes who have achieved very good sports results, these are Olympic medalists, world champions, these are people who very often have not acquired a second profession and so on the good cause the only thing they know about is sport. And I would not want, because it is their passion and continuation of their actions, to only because they were assigned to one or the other club, in this case the Guardian or the military, to prevent them from continuing to operate in sport as such, indirectly, but precisely within the framework of their work as sports union activists. And here, when it comes to people who are more likely to end up in relationships on the party line, and you know you can charge them, there's obviously no discussion. We will support such solutions so that these people will go away. My point is to guarantee those who have completed their career, that they will continue to function. The point that is also controversial is indeed the proposal that clubs which are established on the basis of a limited liability company may operate in the professional league. The situation is that in the case of a public limited company, the initial capital is 100,000. PLN, and in the case of a limited liability company - 5 thousand. zł. As regards the decision to operate in the professional league, a certain amount of capital is required. We're afraid it's a five grand requirement. It will not be a problem to start such a company, there will be clubs that unfortunately will look for money in a not very elegant way. Therefore, certain financial stability of clubs which intend to compete in professional leagues should be established at a level corresponding to the contribution to the public limited liability company. We know that such financial requirements are in assessing the ability of football teams to function. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It seems that extending this catalogue to other sports disciplines is also appropriate and should not change it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u328	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present a position towards the government's draft law on the amendment of the Sports Act and the Act on disclosure of documents of state security authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, prints Nos 1410 and 1600. The project deals with increasing transparency of the operation of Polish sports unions and preventing conflicts of interest by introducing further restrictions on membership of former officers of the security authorities of the State of the Polish People's Republic on the Management Board of the Polish Sports Association, improving transparency of the operation of Polish sports unions, extending the definition of sport to intellectual activity, the aim of which is to achieve the result of sports, introducing the possibility of awarding a sports scholarship in particularly justified cases. As regards former officers of the security authorities of the State of the Polish People's Republic, as well as the possibility of awarding a sports scholarship in particularly justified cases, the Polish People's Party does not comment. However, I would like to make comments on the above. projects in the field of Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 6, which in our opinion are extremely important to ensure the smooth functioning of each Polish sports union, in particular as regards the possibility of raising funds for statutory activities. In a situation of constant reduction of expenditure on public tasks in the field of sport carried out by Polish sports unions, there is a need to look for other non-budget sources of financing for the activities of Polish sports unions. One way to generate funds is to create dedicated commercial law companies, whose task is to support the Polish sports union. The legislator, of course, allows the creation of commercial companies by Polish sports unions, but recently proposed amendments to the Sports Act on the wording of the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 6 indicates that the intention is to prevent members of the management board of the Polish sports association from acting as a member of the body, proxy or representative in entities engaged in economic activities related to the performance of its statutory tasks by the association. From the above justification it is not possible to agree, for example, because it is difficult to imagine a conflict of interest in a situation where the Polish sports union is established by a company in which it is the only shareholder, and the purpose of this company is the organizational and financial support of a given Polish sports union. The restrictions imposed by the proposed rules will make Polish sports unions lose influence on the day-to-day functioning and direct control of entities whose associations can and generally are owners. It is difficult to find a reasonable justification for the establishment of regulations that would not have the right to appoint such bodies, e.g. management boards and supervisory boards, persons who are also members of the management board of the Polish sports union. If the union is established by the company, it is natural to want to exercise ongoing supervision of the company's activities. The restrictions proposed by the legislator differ substantially from the general standards laid down in particular by the Commercial Companies Code for all other participants in legal transactions. Certainly, the proposed restriction to the board members of the Polish sports association should not apply to a situation in which the Polish sports union is the sole shareholder of the commercial law company. It is impossible to see any risks in relations between a subsidiary and a Polish sports association when a member of the management board of the Polish sports association serves as a member of the body of such a company. In conclusion, it should be concluded that the introduction of a restriction on the scope of Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (6) of the Sports Act will adversely affect the functioning of Polish sports unions, which seek alternative sources of financing for sport. Moreover, this regulation also applies directly to all entities engaged in activities related to the implementation by the Polish sports association of its statutory tasks, including sports clubs and even companies created for the management of the professional league. In a situation where all efforts are aimed at raising additional funds, it appears that the proposed regulation significantly limits economic freedom and establishes barriers that are inadequate to the intended objectives. For this reason, we call for clarification of the provision of the Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 6 of the project by stating that the above prohibition does not apply to companies created by the Polish sport association. We therefore call for this provision to be supplemented by the following wording: except for capital companies whose sole partner is the Polish sport association. In writing, I present and present to your marshal an amendment concerning this point, Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 (6).
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u330	Thank you very much. Thank you. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Good athletes! Ladies and gentlemen, do you really imagine that you will change the face of Polish sport by taking this bill? It doesn't work that way. Medals are forged with very hard work in training and a huge amount of sweat poured out in training. That bill won't do. You say fair country. Okay, you're very fond of the subject of vetting, I agree, but why do you apply the double standards of vetting? I must remind you today: TW Wolfgang, or Tomasz Przyłębski, present ambassador of the Republic of Poland in Germany, Andrzej Kryże, is your environment, the judge who convicted Andrzej Czuma, Wojciech Ziembiński or Bronisław Komorowski, but you know for what, you know - for saying that the Polish People's Republic is not an independent state - or Stanisław Piotrowicz, [[♪ The bell ♪]] face of the current change of Polish law, prosecutor in martial law. It's worth knocking in your own chest and also starting from each other some things. That's what I wish you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u332	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the novel, the Minister responsible for physical culture may grant a national team member a sports scholarship for the sporting performance achieved in international competition for up to 24 months. The scholarship may be awarded to a member of the national staff who will undertake in writing to implement the programme for the preparations for the games. The basis for establishing the amount of the sports scholarship is PLN 2300, with the amount of the scholarship not exceeding 5.5 times that amount. Let me briefly ask you: Where did this amount come from? On what basis was it developed? What will determine what will affect the final amount of the scholarship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u334	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, Civic Platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! These applause were for Gretel coming down, not for me coming in, definitely. [[You have to earn it, sir.]] I'd like to ask you about the proposed doping bill. I'm gonna be consistent on doping all the time. Minister, two years as the upper limit, with the ability to be a sports activist, you can collect Olympic benefits, it's probably too long. We must remember that two years ago it was practically the maximum penalty that could have been received for the doping crime. Remember one of the biggest doping scandals - Ben Johnson received two years of disqualification for his crime in Seoul. He, according to the Minister, could certainly have done his crime - then there were the next, of course - to receive the benefits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Olympics, he could be president of the Polish union. I have the impression that with this bill and this gate that was left by the Minister, the Minister does not want to touch any of his colleagues or friends who have such crimes in their account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. I invite you, Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice. Is Mr Latos here? There isn't. Please, Mr Roman Kosecki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u337	Good morning! Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Evil is evil, good is good. Evil must be eliminated. I agree with that and in many cases Many people... you have servants for this, so show them, these are those who served, who were in sport, who must be shown and eliminated. On the other hand, I ask this question once again, and I would also like to have an answer in writing, and here I am asking the Minister, because there are many questions from athletes, from coaches who have been to various resort clubs, whether it concerns them or not. I know, we talked about it on the committee, I know the art. Five, as far as the IPN is concerned. In 1988 there were athletes in Seoul. Wouldn't someone think of overinterpreting this idea, because it needs to be written clearly, and whether or not. will not say: all athletes, Olympians who were in resort clubs will be taken away from Olympic benefits because that's how he overinterprets it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask for a clear declaration in this respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u338	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u339	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I have some doubts. - of course, the whole change is as positive as possible, but these doubts concern what my previous speakers were talking about, namely former employees, officers or soldiers, military service, fictitious jobs in uniformed services, uniformed clubs. Question: "Will this law include former athletes, Olympics, medalists who had the pleasure of playing, training, playing professional sports in such clubs?" Second doubt, it's about art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, i.e. the composition of the professional league and public limited liability companies or companies of the o.o. - here also mine, as did Mr Meysztowicz, the turmoil. You know, stock companies have their management, their supervisory board, their control bodies. Guaranteed amount of 100,000. zł, here, unfortunately, is the company of O.O. 5,000. It's just an evil thing. Isn't that gonna make these clubs [[♪ The bell ♪]] But will the professional league roll over during the season? I'm sure that's what's gonna hurt most of all the players. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u340	Thank you very much. Before I cast my vote to ask the next question, I wanted to welcome the representatives of the Sokółka commune. The chiefs and the mayor are with us. Welcome. [[Applause]] And now the question will be asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u341	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think we're just starting a discussion on extending competition to intellectual effort issues. We're talking about the sport issue. But I have a question and a doubt here. Of course, this is a very important area that is currently developing. But we also need to be clear that e-sport, to say the least, does not have much to do with the sport we want to promote. I think the Minister will do the same. I also think that this issue should be dealt with separately and probably not only, if at all, by the Ministry of Sport, although the subject is absolutely important, one that we should be talking about. About that. My honourable previous speaker, Mr Papke, has already said so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a question of the legal nature of the companies that will operate. Indeed, as far as the issue of companies is concerned, I have the greatest concern not to harm players in all of this, because it is crucial that these contracts are actually carried out later so that we simply draw attention to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u342	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The proposed law regulates a number of provisions of the existing Sports Act, which required appropriate modification, as well as adjustment of them to the current legal situation. In addition, the project introduces new legal institutions in an appropriate and complete manner and clarifies the existing ones. Therefore, this bill submitted can be assessed positively. However, I would ask the rapporteur to answer the following questions: Do the proposed changes have a chance to put an end to a number of pathologies that still exist in the way some Polish sports unions operate? For what reason and for what purpose the proposed law has increased in the amended Article. 16 Sports Act The scope of control powers of the Minister of Sport and Tourism, in particular regarding compliance with the law of internal regulations of Polish sports unions? Are the proposed provisions referred to in Article. 4 laws, [[♪ The bell ♪]] shouldn't it be extended to other issues concerning important management positions in Polish sports unions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u344	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ireneus Raś, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wasn't talking about another major amendment that we made because there wasn't time. This applies to e-sports and the extension of the definition of sport. Minister, Wikipedia, the definition of sport. Can you... Sport is a form of human activity aimed at improving physical fitness in competition, individually or collectively, according to contractual rules, which are international sports federations. Where is the definition that extends it to competition based on intellectual activity? Chess, bridge are not a good example. These are traditionally recognized throughout the world as sports, derived from this tradition for years. But it's opening up. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for e-sport is, in my opinion, a harmful action and that is why the Platform has tabled this amendment. We can't go that far. E-sport has nothing to do with sports. In the perspective it will be more associated with behavioral addictions, with which this sport will have to cope in European societies. And you should try to fight for it in the European Union. France has already made this regulation...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u346	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u347	...but not in the Sports Act, but in the Digitalization Act. We've got homework to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u348	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Sport clubs in Poland face major financial problems. Local government money, which is the main source of funding, is insufficient. There is absolutely little money in these programs that marshals or the Ministry of Sport announce. These are amounts that don't solve any problems. I know very well the situation of sports clubs in Lower Silesia, and especially winter sports, and I would like to say that we have excellent young people, very capable, who are able to win medals, but lack money for training these young people. We have good conditions for training, but without money we can't raise talents, we can't develop talents, we can't win medals. I think we need to create a financing system first, because we can't create a financing system without it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] high-level sport in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u350	Thank you very much, Member. There you go, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u351	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It would seem, as regards the statements of some representatives, especially Mr Matuszewski, who presented... [[Voice from the Chamber: Members...]] Your Member, yes, of course. ...the position of the club Law and Justice that the main purpose of this law is decommunization of sport. By the way, I would like to ask you if you are uncomfortable sitting in the Sejm in the close vicinity of Mr Peterovich, the Attorney General of martial law. But sport in some areas is a big business. There seems to be a lack of such an approach in these proposals, which would show the training by sport and the shaping of patriotic attitudes. 'Cause of course, you have to tell yourself that it can't be the purpose of sports, just that one day you're gonna be doing it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] it's made a lot of money. What kind of action is the Minister planning to take to actually give something to the young people? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u352	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Matuszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Members of the Civic Platform have doubts, disagree, some say that you are struggling poorly, Minister, with doping. [[You wrote this before the debate.]] For 8 years, you Members of the Civic Platform have ruled and have not made up even 20% of these changes, as the current Minister. You guys should keep your mouth shut and learn how to do... [[Bravo!]] ...good changes in Polish sports. There will be further changes serving the whole sport, not just narrow groups, privileged. I'm gonna ask you some more questions now, Minister. Minister, are you familiar with bankruptcy or the financial difficulties of public limited-liability clubs? Do you think that a public limited company is a panacea for the proper functioning of Polish professional leagues? I'll answer Mr. Lassot. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shortly. I am very pleased that Mr Piotrowicz sits next to us and performs well... [[A well-known oppositionist, just to be clear.]] ...the function of the envoy. Thank you very much. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u354	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking you to... Mr Mieczysław Baszko, Polish Party... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u356	Gentlemen, please remain calm in the courtroom. [[But it was a historic performance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u357	In fact, when it comes to a lot of changes, we always enjoy very much in committee and Platform and PSL always show very strongly that we need to support Polish sport and act for its good. Only one thing surprises me - that the Polish union, I will not exchange, does not fight to obtain additional funds through commercial law companies. I have a question for the Minister. I'm talking about art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 6 of the Commercial Companies Act. However, companies of commercial law finance sport, Polish sports unions have additional funding for their functioning and for statutory activities. I have a question: Did the Minister provide funds in the budget for this difference so that these national unions, Polish ones, could function well? What kind of money is that? Does he have an analysis? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many sports clubs do they put together? It's about the difference in the budget, so that the Minister can present it, whether the funds are secured. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u358	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I am now asking the Minister of Sport and Tourism, Mr Witold Bianca, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for the relatively constructive work of the High House on the government bill amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 and 1990. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the reception of the aforementioned. The project is an appropriate response to the already identified organisational problems of Polish sport and will help improve the functioning of Polish sports unions, to increase transparency of the functioning of these sports unions, to improve the level of quality of management precisely in the so-called so-called. P.S.S. Regarding the most important changes contained in this project, above all this is, as I mentioned earlier, an increase in transparency of the operation of Polish sports unions and the prevention of conflicts of interest by introducing further restrictions concerning members of the board of the Polish sports union; the introduction of a ban on the role of a member of the management of the Polish sports union by former officers of the security bodies of the Polish People's Republic, which makes it possible to specify high ethical and moral requirements for those exercising these functions; the strengthening of the supervision of the Minister of Sport and Tourism over the Polish sports unions, with full autonomy of these sports unions, the possibility of controlling the regulations and internal rules which sports unions themselves establish - it is not so that the Ministry wants to impose some rules whether the internal regulations of Polish sports unions only want to verify how Polish sports unions comply with those regulations which they themselves have established; introduce the possibility for the Minister responsible for physical culture to grant a sports scholarship in particularly justified cases where a member of national staff for reasons independent of himself does not obtain a sporting result which entitles him to receive a sports scholarship; clarify the rules on sports scholarships, prizes for outstanding sports achievements and Olympic benefits, as well as sports clubs belonging to the professional league; increase the scope of the meaningful concept of sport. And this is where I'd like to stay a little bit. The new definition of sport extended to intellectual activity, the aim of which is to achieve a sporting result, includes such sports as chess, checkers or sports bridge. I would also like to make it clear here that the new proposals in no way change the legal status in any way so-called. e-sports, on the other hand, are technical and symbolic changes, are to be an expression of appreciation of individual mental sports - throughout the country, I would like to remind you, there are more than 600 checkers clubs, sports bridge, chess bridge - as well as a symbolic opening to the so-called environment. e-sport. It should be made clear that this amendment does not in any way equal traditional and so-called sport. e-Sport gives us more opportunities to promote and implement programmes promoting physical activity among people practicing so-called. mental sports. The main, overarching task of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism is to promote physical activity. Changes in this law will symbolically increase the possibility of taking actions that physically activate the environment of people dealing with so-called. e-sports and targeting to this large group of social projects raising awareness of the nature of active lifestyles, especially by children and young people. Noticeing the growing interest in the so-called. e-sports, we want to meet this phenomenon and make it clear to young people how important it is to take action within traditional sport for proper development. This is essential. It is not possible to equalize so-called. e-sports with traditional sport. This is absolutely obvious. This change is in some way a symbolic opening to this environment. Ladies and gentlemen, we may be offended that children and young people are playing on the computer, we can forbid it - it's not going to change anything in this area - and we can also draw a hand to this environment, make it clear that you can be more efficient, more efficient in what you do, only and only if you do sports. Today, the best chess players are people who actively play sports. Playing sports also improves the intellectual condition. In this way, absolutely symbolic, we want to open ourselves up to the e-sport environment, completely without equalizing these two different phenomena. This is a very important matter. Moreover, in traditional sports there are Polish sports unions. It is the essence of the difference between traditional sports and so-called. an e-sport. There is no so-called organization. an e-sport that meets the substantive premise of creating a Polish sports association, which is belonging to an international sports federation operating in Olympic or Special Olympic sports or other recognised by the International Olympic Committee. That needs to be made clear. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting that this project has been the subject of extensive consultation with representatives of the sports world. Before submitting the project to the public consultation, the scope of the bill was assessed by the Social Council of Sports, an ancillary body of the Minister of Sport and Tourism composed of outstanding representatives of the sports community, the environment of the world of medicine, science, sport, players, trainers. The project was also submitted for public consultation to all sports unions, the Polish Olympic Committee, the Polish Paralympian Committee and selected sports organisations, with a 21-day deadline for expressing their position, up to 79 entities in total. As a result of these consultations, a number of comments from the sports community have been taken into account in this draft law. As regards the questions of Members of Parliament, I would like to address them briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little confounded because I have the impression that some of you have completely failed to read the bill, its records. These questions or positions, in particular Mr Meysztowicz's position, are some kind of publicist and they have nothing to do with the bill. Of course, there is no provision, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law, which would mirror or require the vetting of players and coaches. Only members of the management board of Polish sports unions will be subject to a illustrative obligation. As regards issues related to the alleged interference of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism in internal regulations and in the autonomy of Polish sports unions, I would like to make it clear to you that there is no possibility of any interference in the autonomy of the functioning of Polish sports unions with regard to both the choice of authorities and internal regulations which Polish sports unions themselves establish. This entry only applies to the fact that we want to check how much Polish sports unions comply with the rules they have established for themselves. This is the only regulation, which is about to increase the transparency of the functioning of sports unions, but in no way will we touch on the question of how Polish sports unions in the field of these internal regulations are to function. I have the impression that a little bit of the state is depreciating the company from O.O., glorifying the legal form of the public limited liability company. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also a bow towards sports clubs: the company z o.o. offers the right opportunities for transparent functioning, and also often the budgets of sports clubs are really very low. The costs of operating public limited liability companies are much higher and, at the same time, we know - as Mr Matuszewski mentioned - that we have a number of cases where the legal formula has not led to the situation that the public limited liability company acted as it should. She asked about the scholarship rate. This is an indicator that already works in the Sports Act. Issues related to doping regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, these anti-doping regulations have been greatly tightened. Today, two years of disqualification may threaten, for example, a contaminated conditioner in the Sports Committee. This is a kind of compromise: you have proposed 18 months, we have prepared, we have proposed 24 months to make it consistent. This comment by Mr Ziółkowski on possible colleagues... Let me save you the opportunity to keep my mouth shut right now, because you have to have a class here to make these kinds of accusations... I would not like to respond to such allegations, because I think, Mr Bauer, that there was a little lack of class here in this respect with you. It's sad. As regards the issue which has been mentioned here, which is related to the provision introducing a ban on former officers of the security authorities of the Polish State's Polish Sports Association as a member of the board of directors of the Polish Sports Association, which makes it possible to specify the high ethical requirements, of course we have already discussed this in the committee. Art. The 5th IPN Law explicitly regulates this. We are not, of course, talking about athletes who functioned as regular militia or military staff in sports clubs. This provision naturally does not apply to them. This provision generally concerns members of the boards of Polish sports unions and audit committees. You are talking here about some supposedly huge group of athletes who will be deprived, as you mentioned here, of the possibilities of functioning in society. This does not apply to these provisions of the Act at all. I don't know where the press came from. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, please accept the bill. I hope that this law, this solution, will be a solution that will gain Parliament's support. I firmly believe that this project increases the level of management of Polish sports unions, increases the level of Polish sport. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u360	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Ziółkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much. I would like to reply very briefly to the Minister and to Mr Matuszewski. Actually, I have a great right to talk about doping because I've struggled with doping for practically my entire sports career. A lot of medals were taken from me because someone was using doping. I believe that being an Olympic medalist is such a big distinction that those players who win medals and then receive Olympic benefits should indeed be flawless. I'm aware that there are great characters in our frame that... For example, our winter sports mediatist had a doping incident. If I had the opportunity, I would have put something in the bill that you couldn't have even one day's disqualification penalty for doping to get an Olympic benefit, because it is indeed, Minister, that would be a fight against doping, not patting pathology on your back, because that's the lack of class. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u362	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Care of Monuments and some other laws (Prints No 1403, 1403-A and 1620). I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is one of those bill designs that doesn't cause political controversy. This is rare in the current Sejm, but this time in the Committee on Culture there were basically no voices of opposition, we did not discuss politically, but only substantively. That's very, very happy. In addition to the legislative and editorial amendments tabled, there has been one substantive change which allows for an extension of the possibility for the local government to finance these monuments, which are not yet among the most important monuments, national treasures or monuments protected by the state service - those from the municipal register of monuments. This amendment was accepted by the committee. There was also an idea to give the minister competent for cultural and national heritage the opportunity to react quickly to some illegal and good Polish culture, Polish monuments works started by the owners of monuments even before the building permit was issued. A clear-sounding amendment has not yet been formulated. I think that this amendment will be tabled now, during work in the Sejm, but on this idea there was widespread agreement among the members of the committee. Thus, the vote at the committee meeting was clear and unanimously the draft, together with the amendments adopted, is recommended by the High Sejm committee to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u364	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u365	Mr. and Mrs. Marshals! High Izbo! As I was just saying, this is a project long awaited by the environment in any way related to the protection of monuments. The previous terms of office also discussed several times how to increase the possibilities of general action and regional monument conservators. The members of the committee, also in previous terms, took disiderments, which indicated the need to harmonise the administration dealing with the protection of monuments and to extend the general supervision of the conservator of monuments over what the conservators of the province are doing. The bill that we are currently discussing is clearly going this way. It increases the general competence of the monument conservator compared to the voivodship and the voivodship conservators - compared to the heads of individual delegations. This gives a chance for uniform action across the country and will also allow for the harmonisation of the actions of conservationists of voivodship and conservation workers of monuments across the country. The second very important element of this law is the granting of the right to the voivodship conservationists of monuments, as well as the minister and general conservator of monuments to react more quickly to actions that cause destruction of the antique substance. It must be remembered that unfortunately Poland is a country in which, as a result of many years of wars, many of the monuments have been destroyed. Those that are still here today are often destroyed in the majesty of the law or on the border of the existing law by new owners. Often the monument conservator was helpless in view of such situations, hence the idea of introducing administrative penalties that could allow a quick reaction to those who would want to destroy such a monument. This is the right thing to do. There is, of course, also the issue of the general supervision of the conservator, which will be the second instance of appeal in the case of administrative penalties, in order to eliminate any irregularities, but also to harmonise the case law and impose possible penalties in the case of unlawful actions. The possibility of imposing administrative penalties will also allow for the creation of a new fund and the collection of additional funds for the care of monuments. The aim is to create a National Monument Protection Fund, to which funds from possible administrative penalties will influence. We hope that soon this fund will be extended, because the funds for the protection of monuments unfortunately still lack in Poland. During the discussion on the bill, we clearly indicated that voivodship conservationists of monuments have too little resources to assist those who want to look after the monuments, because possession of the monument is associated with many limitations. This law gives additional penalties and prohibitions, but there should also be a greater possibility of financial incentives, financial assistance in this difficult work of preserving monuments. We hope, then, that in addition to these measures which the Ministry has and which are already distributed in two large nationwide competitions, there will be additional funds for the voivodship conservationists of monuments. Because there have been some editorial, legislative doubts and a call for speeding up the moment when the Minister could react to actions that are detrimental to the historical substance, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is proposing a number of drafting amendments and a proposal on how to react quickly to illegal activities. As a parliamentary club, we strongly support the direction proposed by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, we are in favour of protecting the Polish historical substance and at the same time giving conservation services the right to react quickly in situations of possible violations of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u366	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the government draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Care of Monuments and some other laws. The aim of the amendments is to increase the efficiency of the State policy tasks set out in the National Monument Protection and Monument Care Programme adopted by the Council of Ministers Resolution of 24 June 2014. The presented bill enhances the general competence of the monument conservator by enabling him to influence in a decisive way the cast of the posts of the voivodship monument conservators and the heads of the delegations of voivodship monument conservation offices. In addition, it added coordination and control of the activities of the voivodship conservationist of monuments, establishing general directions for their operation, issuing instructions and guidelines on how to proceed and asking the voivodship conservation officer to report on current activities. The general conservator of monuments has individual responsibility for the state of affairs in the area of the protection of monuments and therefore has a direct impact on the selection of persons to whom supervision posts are entrusted. A novelty is the creation of the National Monument Protection Fund. It will be a special-purpose fund, the responsibility of which is the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. The revenue of the fund is derived from revenue from administrative fines. It is an additional financial mechanism supporting the owners of monuments. The amount of administrative fines is justified by the need to ensure effective protection of monuments, ranging from PLN 500 to PLN 500 000. zł. These penalties are described in detail in the draft law. The highest fines were imposed for conducting without permission or not in accordance with the terms or conditions set out in the licence of conservation works, restaurant works at the monument included in the Heritage Treasury List. It is the voivodship monument conservator that will be equipped with the possibility to adjudicate on administrative fines for violation of obligations related to the care of the monument. The provisions of the Act on Protected Monuments have also been adapted to introduce administrative fines for the illegal search for monuments, including archaeological monuments. Another amendment implies that the provisions of the Act on Protected Nature and the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments, which concern the removal of trees and shrubs from real estate sites entered in the Register of Monuments, are consistent. As a result, instead of issuing two permits to cut down trees or shrubs, one permit will be issued under the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments. It was proposed that the register of land and buildings should include information on the initiation of proceedings on the registration of the immovable property in the register. In this way, the person interested in acquiring the property will have access to information as to whether the object is not covered by the proceedings on the entry of the monument in the register of monuments. Many of the changes made to the bill are justified. Many of us found it difficult to agree, especially with high financial penalties. However, given the discussion in committee, questions, responses from representatives of the Ministry and the amendments made, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will be in favour of the bill amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and some other laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u368	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the prints 1403 and 1403-A, i.e. the amendment of the Act on the protection of monuments and the protection of monuments from 2003. The aim of the amendment is to improve the functioning of the conservation system, but also the mechanisms for financing the protection of monuments and to introduce a number of other changes. Changes in the establishment of the personnel of the landmark protection authorities and the extension of the supervision and coordination measures of the Supreme Monument Protection Authority should be considered as positive. Voivodship conservationists of monuments still function in the dual submission system today, but in recent years it has been clear how dependent conservationists are on voivodships. Unfortunately, it often ended with binding their hands and giving in to developers, for example. In the amended article. 91 It is proposed that the voivodship monument conservator be appointed by the voivode at the request of the general monument conservator indicating the candidate for this position. The general competence of the conservator of monuments is also added to the coordination and control of the activities of the voivodship conservators of monuments and the setting of general directions for their operation and issuing instructions, guidelines for how they function. The head of the delegation of the Provincial Monument Protection Office will appoint and cancel the Provincial Monument Preserver at the request of the general conservator, but also with his consent, i.e. at a lower level there is also improvement of the conservation service. We are pleased that the proposal to amend the article has been tabled. 81 was accepted by the committee. It gives local authorities the opportunity to receive grants from registered monuments that are not in the registers. There is a huge need to support at a lower level, at local level, the protection of monuments. This was a major loss in the 2010 amendment when the financial instrument was not given protection with the introduction of the records. The purpose of the proposed amendments to the Act is also to grant temporary protection to immovable monuments in the course of the procedure for registration of monuments. Very often, the monuments were destroyed in a short time after the opening of the procedure, there was a race against time in the field of administrative procedures. Now there will be opportunities to react quickly in such situations. There are also many other, it would seem, minor changes, but quite important in the Nature Conservation Act governing the granting of permits for the removal of trees or shrubs from real estate and eliminating the need for double permits by the same authority. The Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of the proposed amendment. It contains the postulates of dorms, monument conservationists and cultural heritage activists, just to improve the protection system of monuments in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u370	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modernzna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will not dwell on this law because its direction is absolutely right, and the Modern will support this law, actually this amendment. Of course, there is a problem, which has already been expressed here from the platform, with the article. 107 and Article 107. 108, which deal with punishing people for the crimes committed by people who will maintain monuments. Of course, that's always the biggest problem. This is something that is a negative part of the political philosophy of Law and Justice. In fact, all areas of our lives are defined by punishment. This way of secularizing our reality, cultural in this case, is some kind of problem that is going to build a system of social values anyway. And this system of social values is extremely important for our public space, for our symbolic space, and we are all aware that monuments are not just a part of material culture, because it is actually a symbolic culture, it is a culture that believes the spiritual meaning of our society. I would also point out that it is important to distribute the money evenly into individual objects that will be subject to maintenance. And here, of course, the role of the voivode is important. It turns out that the voivode is becoming an element of public authority, which increasingly takes over the plenipotence and competence of local governments, which is quite dangerous, also in the general philosophy of politics, which is practiced by Law and Justice towards local governments, limiting the role of local governments. With these doubts and drafting them, I would like to stress once again that the Modern Law will support the protection of monuments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, this project did not cause any controversy. Indeed, it is good that this dependence is already established unambiguously, that the voivodships of conservators are subject to the main conservator. In fact, at times, they had a split personality because they did not know whose instructions to listen to and who was their superior in the good cause. So it's not up for discussion that this is the right direction. On the other hand, some doubts - at least in my opinion - are raised by the provision of a law which allows the main conservator of monuments to start proceedings, which either invalidates the decision, or amends the decision issued by the voivodship conservator of monuments. Why do I think it's not exactly safe? Well, imagine the situation when the investor who undertook to rebuild the monuments did some work based on the conservation permit obtained by the voivodship conservationist of the monuments, continues this process and suddenly it turns out that the main conservator has a different concept of developing this monument or other conservation methods. What then? It's actually a thing... I hope that the use of this record will be very rarely used, because there is some uncertainty in the case of people who are dealing with the restoration of monuments. First of all, I am talking about construction issues, but they require a lot of money. It may happen that even though the investor will carry out reconstruction or reconstruction of the monument according to the records, with the permission of the provincial conservator, it will suddenly turn out that this decision will be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u374	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u375	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party in relation to the draft law on amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments. The Act provides for the creation of the National Monument Protection Fund and an increase in the influence of the Minister of Culture and the General Monument Preserver on the activities of the Provincial Monuments Preservers. The records seem to sound innocent, but it is worth considering some of the consequences of the bill. Our concerns are primarily raised by the plan to introduce very high administrative penalties, the main source of income of the National Monument Protection Fund, up to 500 thousand. not only for conducting conservation, archaeological or restoration studies without permission, but also in the event of their execution not in accordance with the scope or conditions set out in the permit. On the other hand, the maximum penalty for not notifying the damage or damage to the monument is 2 000. zł. Excessive fiscalism is always a field for abuse. It is not difficult to imagine that the owner of the monuments will not even undertake the necessary conservation works or repairs in fear of ruining the administrative penalty. Even if the monument destroys, it risks far less, because it is better to pay 2,000. PLN 500,000. zł. Moreover, there are considerable doubts about the range of penalties and their discretion. Ladies and gentlemen, between 2008 and 2016, we spent about PLN 1 billion each year from public funds for the protection of monuments, for the revitalization of monuments. It was from the state budget, from European funds, from operational programmes, from the Rural Development Programme and from the Norwegian instruments. Never before in history has as much been done for monuments as in these years. This was possible thanks, of course, to money, but also to very efficient conservation services. World-wide trends show that the most effective antiquities support system is, first, public funding and efficient conservation services. Today we have this situation: on 26 May, the deadline for preparing a regulation regulating the procedure and rules for granting conservation permits has expired. Today, conservation services operate without a regulation and even some conservationists do not issue appropriate permits. In my opinion, however, the oppressive law of conservators is being introduced, because if they become financial collectors, what authority will they have? You create the National Monument Protection Fund and I agree that this is a very good initiative, but it should be supported by the state budget, by public funds. Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party expresses its concern about whether the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments will actually protect the good of culture, or rather is looking for new methods for greater influence on the state budget and stronger centralization of administration, so it will not vote in favour of the act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u376	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. Question time - 1 minute. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please indicate how much the annual receipts are estimated for the Monument Protection Fund. Will this bill affect the blocking of unjustified demolitions of monuments? Such a threat affected the building in Warsaw on the corner of the street. The towers on the Old Town, the building included in the UNESCO list, also affected many tenement houses in Prague. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u378	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to ask a question on behalf of the so-called. Treasure hunters, because there's quite a number of correspondence going into my parliamentary office. I quote: For years there has been a hunt for treasure hunters in Poland. However, the latest draft law on amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments has passed the wildest expectations. The current shape of the law, despite the imperfections criticized by the environment, provides for the need to obtain consent for the search for monuments from the voivodship conservationist of monuments. Searching for monuments without the required permission in the light of the current law is a violation with appropriate sanctions: arrest, limitation of liberty or fine. Most explorers treat walks with a detector in terms of entertainment and hobbies. Treasure hunters in Poland are a group of about 100,000, ladies and gentlemen. persons. Why should they be treated like dangerous criminals? Ladies and gentlemen, the searchers are harmless and have a beneficial effect on society: they promote a healthy lifestyle among friends and families, historical knowledge among the nearest community, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and often they join in groups and form associations, establish memorial chambers, private museums and are interested in monuments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u380	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u381	I ask a great deal of you. Perhaps it would be worth considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u382	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the proposed changes of the voivodship monument conservator, a representative of the government, i.e. the voivode, will be appointed at the request of the head office, i.e. the minister, and not with his consent. This one, in turn, will appoint the head of the field authorities. The Act gives an exclusive minister in the selection of voivodship monument conservators at his own discretion. The exchange as usual, traditionally on the Pisiewiczów, is necessary for this very law. Why? It's already become a tradition on the part of the PiS. The government wants to create the National Monument Protection Fund, which will have revenue from administrative penalties. The minister will also be responsible for it. What influence does the government expect from this? How will this fund be distributed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u384	Thank you very much. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u385	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I ask the question: How will the establishment of the National Monument Protection Fund affect the activity and existence of the Kraków Social Renovation Committee of Krakow, which was established in 1985 and, thanks to its activities, can finance works in more than 100 objects entered in the register of monuments every year? It should be remembered that the Old Town, along with some districts, is a monument to history of undisputed national value and that it is included in the UNESCO list. Thanks to the funds provided by the Polish President's Office, financial and organisational stability is guaranteed in order to save and restore Kraków, whose process is due to the scale of Krakow's heritage - 1200 objects entered in the register of monuments, 5 thousand. other buildings of historical value - cannot be completed within several decades. And by the end of the day, I wanted to make one more point. Employee salaries should be increased [[♪ The bell ♪]] in charge of these conservation services. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u386	Thank you. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My questions relate to the planned creation of the National Monument Protection Fund. First of all, how many new people does the Ministry plan to hire to handle such a large fund, so important for our monuments and heritage conservation? Question two: What will be the procedures for reaching for funds from the fund by private owners or by local governments? And above all, what country provides for the amounts of fines to be collected in the light of previous years? What are your calculations? Because I understand it's going to be multiple. - a multimillion-dollar amount. How high are you planning this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to return to the matter of the resources that the voivodships have for the preservation of monuments. At a committee meeting in general, all practically, including the Minister, stated that these were insufficient resources. Hence the question to the Ministry - it is not directly related to the law itself: What actions will the Ministry want to take to make these financial opportunities of the voivodship monument conservationists significantly increase? Because we heard at the committee meeting that the discrepancy between the different voivodships is a multiple. The second question refers to administrative penalties, a new instrument in the hands of voivodship conservationists of monuments. There is a huge range, from tens of PLN to several hundred thousand. Hence the question to the Ministry and the General Monument Preserver: How will they want to harmonise the case law in this case so that there are not too large disparities between the various voivodships and do not expose these decisions to administrative penalties in appeal proceedings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u390	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, PO, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u391	Civic Platform, Marshal. My question concerns Art. 108. 1, which imposes a penalty on someone who deliberately destroys the monument. However, we have a huge number of situations where simply abandoning, simply abandoning, leads to the absolute destruction of monuments. As a voivode, I have struggled with my monument conservator with such situations, being completely helpless, all the more so if, in fact, the owner cannot be established either this owner is a bankruptcy syndicate, or we already have it in the hands of the court. So how are you going to regulate these issues when the sacred property law caused us to lose a huge amount of monuments in the Third Republic, really huge, especially in rural areas? And should we not consider the formula of limiting this right to property and establishing something in the form of a court case over a monument that is simply unmaintained? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u392	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mrs Magdalena Gawin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships, Mr Fellow Members, Thank you so much for all your questions. I hope that I will answer them, a little collectively, and a little bit I will address individual Members. First of all, in many speeches, there was a question about the National Monument Protection Fund and I would like to say something more about it. Ladies and gentlemen, this idea was created in the heritage conservation community in 70 years. It's hard to believe that for decades, it kept coming back. He, among others. returned in various resolutions of the Council for the Protection of Monuments. And I would also like to inform you that this enjoys absolute support from conservationists and art historians. Also, the last meeting of the Council for the Protection of Monuments, which took place two weeks ago, ended with a resolution that conservationists, art historians of the Council for the Protection of Monuments, focused on the Council for the Protection of Monuments fully support this project. I would like to say a few more sentences about the National Monument Protection Fund, because there were a lot of questions about this new instrument. First of all, please note that in Poland for a very long time we did not have a built antique protection system. In fact, the protection of monuments at the central level, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, looks like we have two competitions per year. I now have about 120 million for the whole country, i.e. out of 37 million people, out of 67,000. objects entered in the register of monuments. You can only imagine how small the sum of money is to save the national heritage, which is our common good and which should survive for the generations to come. The National Monument Protection Fund is therefore an idea to change this system to start building an antique protection system that we have not yet had. This is a step in the right direction as far as possible. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska asked what amounts we expect to receive in this National Monument Protection Fund. So this figure is roughly between twenty and 30 million a year. This is for me and so much, this amount in many cases helps to save the life of monuments, because here, among others. There was such a voice that sometimes very small works allow that, I don't know, the roof didn't get wet so that the gutter wouldn't collapse. These are not so expensive works, but they must be done as a substitute work. Mr Grzegorz Furgo asked about the investigation of detectors. So I can say this: this problem is mainly about disrespect for the law. I will remind you that Polish law, of course, allows the search with a detector, while it is necessary to report to the provincial monument conservator, to obtain consent, which costs 86 PLN. Today, however, the problem is not the detectors, but the fact that they are looking for themselves completely illegally. Here I would like to mention such a case from 2017. I think it's from 2017. One of the detectors did not apply for such permission and received a fine of PLN 50, 36 less than the permit required. This is a system that operates in all countries, not only in Poland. These permits are simply necessary, because we also have archaeological sites in Poland for which the entire environment of archaeologists is in favour, and they must be protected, therefore these permissions serve something. Then I was asked how the National Monument Protection Fund would work. Ladies and gentlemen, we are converting offences into administrative penalties because we believe that this is a better mechanism and a better instrument. The money obtained from this instrument will not go into this general budget envelope, i.e. to the Ministry of Finance, but will deliberately go to protection. I can say that some negligence is sometimes difficult to undo, it is difficult to protect the monument, but it can certainly be said that if someone, as a result of, I do not know, persistent refusal to follow after-control recommendations, consisting in very simple activities such as cleaning gutters, truth, or like securing the roof with thick foil, if this roof has been partially damaged, it will lead to the fact that the monument can sometimes not be saved, then I can only say that at least one thing can be done: you can save other monuments for this money. Believe me, this is a much better mechanism, fairer and needed by the general conservator, especially the monuments needed as well. In every country there is a system of antiquities protection, which we have been deprived of so far. I'm just gonna say that we're converting these offences into administrative penalties, but we're not adding any, like, new ones. Offences are now administrative penalties, e.g. For obstructing access to the monument. This is where one of the Members asked what to do if someone refused a voivodship conservationist access to the monument if someone did not persistently follow the control recommendations. Previously, it was a misdemeanor, now it's an administrative penalty. I have the impression that this is also a better instrument that convinces people that, however, if you have a monument, there is a certain responsibility and you have to carry out your duties. Mr Bogusław Sonik asked what is the relationship between the National Fund for the Protection of Monuments and the Social Committee for the Protection of Monuments of the City of Krakow. So apart from the fact that the general conservator of monuments expresses jealousy that the city of Krakow has such a fund, there is no, completely no relationship. We know that Krakow is a unique city, with huge architectural, historical values, that it has this fund, and this fund will remain. Nevertheless, I am very allergic to this dimension of Members, because I have 120 million for the whole country, and the Krakow Fund, it seems, is 30 million PLN a year, so it just shows how much the general conservator of monuments and how much Poland's monuments need to increase the power supply. That's why there's this idea with the National Monument Protection Fund. I just wanted to say one more thing, because I don't know how much Members of Parliament are aware of the fact that the entire historical areas, e.g. antique barracks, which later served the army in the interwar years, usually in the 1980s, the 90s were withdrawn from there, never bought by people, first, physical, only very often by companies. It's not like putting these penalties together is gonna... I said that this is particularly unfair, because these entities have finances and very often do not follow control recommendations and especially cause monuments to fall because it is about speculative land trading. I've been asked about the dimension of these penalties, so I'm going to say that we specifically refer them to C.P.A., because in C.P.A. is the principle of fine sizing and this principle refers to the negative effects that were caused on the monument that were made on the monument. It is also about the class of the monument, it is also about all the circumstances that were related to it, e.g. the administrative penalty can be removed completely from the situation where the destruction occurred as a result of third forces, namely simply wind, storm. It is about destruction, which is not the result of the landlord's actions, but simply caused by the forces of nature. In this measurement we also include the financial situation of the owner of the monument and this is precisely what is needed. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this law has entered into force since 1 January 2018. That's very good, because we get time, and we have 16 voivodship monument conservators that we can train properly. There will also be general guidelines for the preservation of monuments, so that these conservationists work well and meaningfully so that they do not actually... Unfortunately, we must now tolerate acts of informed violation or circumvention. Those voices I've heard here from all over the world, that the monuments are being destroyed, are unfortunately true. Mr Papke asked how many people would be served by the National Monument Protection Fund. What I'm trying to say is that no one's gonna operate this fund, we don't have to hire extra people. It's just a bank account and that money will be such a separate pool. When it comes to how this pool of money will be distributed, I think it will be the same rules as in the antique conservation competitions. First of all, we also want to do replacements. And this is my answer to the question of what to do when the owner of the monument is somewhere abroad, when there is no contact with him, when correspondence does not have any effect. Then these replacements are really needed. And here is the role of voivodship monument conservators to secure the monument, so that it will not be quickly destroyed. We just need the money for that. Regarding questions or issues raised by Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, about increasing the salary of conservationists and employees of voivodship antiquities protection offices, we discussed this in the Council for the Protection of Monuments, we also discussed it in the Committee on Culture. We are now at the stage of talks with the Ministry of Finance. I wrote an appropriate letter to the Ministry of Finance, in which I raised this issue. I hope there's a positive result here. I think I answered most of the questions. [[Disruption.]] When it comes to omissions... does that mean that someone doesn't follow a follow-up recommendation? [[He just doesn't do anything.]] So that's it. These are usually such situations that the voivodship monument conservator makes these recommendations after-control. Perhaps the Member does not always know that they are. [[I know.]] They are, only the owner of the monument persistently refuses to perform even the simplest, basically such cost-effective activities. And then these administrative penalties, believe me, we need them very much, because sometimes it's the only way to discipline the owner - usually a company that bought monuments very often at extremely low prices. This happened in 90 years when local governments unfortunately sold our monuments at very low prices. [[State agencies.]] But I just want to say one more thing, that... some very important issue I've left out. We were talking about the '90s and the local governments, and I just wanted to point out one more thing. Here it was really discussed whether local governments have the right to finance monuments which are not included in the register of monuments, i.e. they are not in this strict register, while they are in the register of monuments. And this is a very positive change, because we allow it. Please note not only that this allows self-governments to take such flexible care of their national heritage, but also that some villages were created in the interwar years, just like the beautiful Gdynia, which simply grew in the interwar years, which is modernist and most of Gdynia's monuments are entered in the historical records rather than in the register. This is a very important change, because from now on these local governments will also be able to protect the monuments that are in the historical records. There were still a few questions about whether it was too restrictive a law or whether it was given too much power to the general conservator of monuments in a situation where he had the right to move final decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, the general conservator of monuments is one. We have 16 voivodship monument conservators, we have more than 30 delegations, heads of delegations acting on behalf of voivodship monument conservation offices. Sometimes this is the case, sometimes it comes to the fact that unfortunately the conservator makes a very bad decision, which is not contested and becomes valid, then there is nothing we can do about it. And this is really the ultimate tool that allows us to protect the monument. Some time ago there was a very loud case of a building near Warsaw. The municipal monument conservator gave permission to strip this building, to demolish it manually and dig it up with deep foundations. Ladies and gentlemen, how can you protect a monument like this by taking it apart completely? Then he drove in some heavy equipment. I just wanted to point out one more thing - in fact, we are not fully implementing this amendment of the law. A new law. If the Member had read this law carefully, he would have said that, in accordance with this older, so-called voivodeship conservation conservator, he has the right, with a decision that is bad for the monument, to take this matter again, to initiate proceedings. So that we only strengthen this instrument and it will be used really as such last resort in situations of obvious damage, damage to the antique substance. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we are creating this antiquities protection system not for ourselves, but for others as well. All Members have monuments, this is our common national heritage. This system should be further developed. I hope that the National Monument Protection Fund will also gradually expand its field of action and that it will create a system by which we will be able to protect this large part of the monuments, which we unfortunately lost after 1989. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u394	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It can be said that the debate in the plenary room confirmed what was happening in the cultural committee. Practically all clubs want to make it more possible to protect monuments. I hope that the Minister's explanations have resolved some of the doubts regarding the application of administrative penalties, and that the amendments that have been tabled will allow us to further clarify and improve this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u396	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 9 and 10 of the agenda: 9. Report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2016 together with information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2016 (print No 1458) and the Commission draft resolution (print No 1626). 10. Information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016 (Print No 1461) together with the Commission's draft resolution (Print No 1627). I ask the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council of Mr Witold Kołodziejski to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u397	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! By the end of March, the National Council of Radiophony and Television shall present annually to the Sejm, the Senate and the President of the Republic of Poland and the President of the Council of Ministers a report on its activities for the preceding year and on the basic problems of radiophony and television. When presenting the annual reporting documents to the authorities of the State, the National Council wishes to highlight the specificities of 2016 as this year concerns the report. It was an exceptional year in the activities of the National Radio and Television Council because it was the year of the change of term. A new term of office of the National Radio and Television Council, a new composition, began on 12 September. I was elected president by the National Council in this composition. The term of office of the previous National Radio and Television Council, chaired by Mr Jan Dworak, ended in six years. The second element... I would just like to say that the national council as a state body operates on a continuous basis, so that this report is a report that does not show this change, because also the tasks that are imposed by the legislator on the National Council of Radiophony and Television are tasks that are carried out continuously and in the same way. Thus, changes in the report itself are not visible, but in other documents, as in concrete decisions or strategic documents, these changes are sometimes very radical. I immediately answer the question: Is this continuity, continuation, or evolution? I will say: office - continuation, approach when it comes to dealing with many problems - sometimes 180 degrees back. This is all within the framework of the same legal situation, i.e. the existing law on radio and television. As regards legal situations, the legal environment, 2016 was also groundbreaking, because on 8 January the amendment of the Act on Radio and Television adopted on 30 December came into force. This amendment was adopted on 30 December 2015. This was the law which introduced changes in the area of competence of the National Radio and Television Council. These changes concerned inter alia. the right to appoint and dismiss boards and supervisory boards of public media companies. This power was initially conferred on the State Treasury Minister and was subsequently entrusted to the newly established National Media Council, which elects the members of the boards and supervisory boards of public media companies by means of a competition. As regards legal conditions, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 13 December 2016, which ruled that the amendment law of 30 December 2015 was incompatible with the Constitution, should be cited here. The Court stressed that the National Radiophony and Television Council must have a dominant position in the framework of the market model developed by the legislator in the process of establishing public media companies. The relevant proposals for amending the law will probably be the subject of Parliament's deliberations. Ladies and gentlemen, the report presented today covers all the activities of the National Council. In particular, it shows, in it, the concession procedures that took place in 2016. Let me remind you that this is the year of launching the eighth television multiplex, with huge problems to this day. There is also information on how to perform other statutory tasks of the National Radio and Television Council, control over the activities of broadcasters, division of subscription fees, organisation and initiation of national cooperation. I would like to remind you that 2016 is about stepping up the European Commission's work on amending the audiovisual directive, adapting it to the new challenges of new technology, including the distribution of video content into the regulatory scope of the European countries. Poland has been intensively involved in this work, the national council, also under my leadership, has also been intensively involved in consulting and developing the position of the Polish government in relation to this directive. The Directive is at the level of further arrangements between Parliament, the Commission and the Council of the Union, so it will probably be adopted next year and we will have implementation work to do later. In 2016, there was also ongoing concerted work, consulting on the implementation by the Polish party, by the Polish government of the rules on the provision of public aid to public media, i.e. the principles related to the implementation of the mission, financed by the subscription. This is the implementation, the introduction of the so-called. public media duty cards. These works were carried out intensively in 2016, they are being conducted now, hosted by the Ministry of Culture. The National Council took part in the drafting of the position and in consultations and negotiations with representatives of the European Commission. Another important area of legal change was the attempt in 2016 to modernise the Radio and Television Act itself. Let me remind you that media law is over 20 years old. These changes that have been made today are also not sufficient. During this time, the media landscape changed dramatically and the need for such an amendment is very large. The National Council in the previous composition participated in the preparation of such a project, this project was considered, but it did not become the subject of a permanent government committee chaired by Prime Minister Kopacz at the time, and therefore after the elections, after the creation of a new government, this consultation path must be repeated. So we decided, because there are a lot of disagreements and views about the current composition of the national council, about the solutions proposed there, that we will rewrite the update of the Radio and Television Act. Ladies and gentlemen! The National Radio and Television Council signs with broadcasters financial-program agreements, financial-program plans, settles public broadcasters in the implementation of the mission, distributes money from the subscription. Because the issue of subscription is not strictly related to the report... Of course, in the report we have extensive information, very detailed how the subscription was shared. I would like to remind you that the use of the subscription for missionary activities is very different in different companies. To the greatest extent, the missionary activity of the subscription is financed by regional public radio companies, at a slightly lower rate of 60%. , in the company Polskie Radio, and in the smallest, at 20% , on Polish Television. So that this image is also a picture presented in the report of the National Radio and Television Council. Ladies and gentlemen! The national council in its present form also performs the tasks that the previous national council carried out. As I said, the continuation is obvious here, the continuity of the organ is obvious. However, in many situations, in the case of specific decisions, detailed solutions, the national council in its current composition could not agree with previous decisions. These are numerous concession decisions, these are numerous legal solutions, such as the construction of the eighth multiplex - the principle that this technical broadcaster is the owner of the reservation and frequency, and it is not really the television broadcasters, only the technical operator is de facto the owner of the multiplex, it does not work in practice, as we can see from the example of the eighth multiplex and the problems with commissioning, and later with the scope of this multiplex - it is another approach probably to the way complaints are handled, but actually and a whole range of other modifications, such as the media market development strategy that we have redefined in terms of the National Radio and Television Council, the approach to digital radio, the approach to digital television, the approach to deconcentrationalization records. All this is seen in the current strategy of the National Council, not yet seen in this report, but in the name of the continuity of the body, I report to the National Radio and Television Council for 2016 as you have received it, and I ask you to accept this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u398	Thank you, Mr President. I ask the President of the National Media Council of Mr Krzysztof Czabański to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Media Council is the first step towards strengthening public media in Poland and this step was necessary to make public media because of the situation. Now, as you remember, these media have been weakened and financially for years, and in a political sense, because serious social groups have been excluded from these media, they have not had access to them, they have not been able to speak in the public debate. So you had to start fixing the media. Act of 22 June establishing The National Media Council, as I said, is the first step towards this repair, and a good testimony to the intention of the legislator is to guarantee two seats for opposition clubs in the five-member Council. These places guarantee the opposition an insight into what is happening in public media, in every area of the media, also in the financial sphere. Access to information is a very important element pluralising public media. But this step has also been made in such a way that we believe that strong public media are an essential asset for civil society. They are a necessity in civil society. That is why we should, from the legal point of view, as I have already mentioned, guarantee a place for all social groups in the debate in these media, but also guarantee a lasting, strong financial basis. That's what the National Media Council doesn't do. This is what the National Radio and Television Council is doing, but we will undoubtedly take the floor, take the floor and act to strengthen the financial public media. We believe that these media have a very important role to play in our society. It is a function of providing reliable information, a function of conducting deep, wide-ranging debates on the most important topics of interest for Poles. In contrast to commercial media, public media should be guided by the Polish state, not by financial considerations, not by commercialism, not by profit or group interests. We also know well, and we do not have any delusions here, because recent years have clearly shown that there are powerful interest and economic and media groups, but also political groups that are not interested in strong public media. I want to tell you that the National Media Council will do everything in its power to strengthen these media. All information about the half-yearly operation of the council, because the council was founded on 2 August Ub. You'll find it, you've got it in your seym paper, so I won't repeat it. I request that this information be accepted by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u400	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Kruk to provide a justification for the draft resolution in print no. 1626.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I present a draft resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2016. At its meeting on 7 June 2017, the Commission examined the report of the National Council addressed to it by the Marshal of the Sejm, together with information on the main problems of radio and television broadcasting in 2016, print No 1458. Following the debate, the committee unanimously decided to submit a resolution to the High House as follows: The Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopts the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2016. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u402	Thank you, Member. I ask Mr Jack the World to present the justification for the draft resolution in print no. 1627. Mr President, may I ask you, sir? [[The Member is busy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Committee on Culture and Media 7 June this year has considered information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016. This reporting obligation imposes a law on the board. In fact, the report only covered 5 months, because, as we know, the media council was established, it was only established on 2 August. The Commission has listened to the information presented by the President of the Council of Krzysztof Czabanski and recommends that the High House adopt the report and adopt the relevant resolution by a majority. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u404	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Joan Lichocka, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Will she judge herself?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! No, I won't judge myself. I'm talking about the National Radio and Television Council. My colleague Grzegorz Puda will talk about the National Media Council. Law and Justice is in favour of the 2016 National Radio and Television Council report. It is because it gives hope for change. In any event, it explicitly stresses the need to change media law and informs about the action taken in this case. It also diagnoses a very dangerous system of forces for pluralism on the Polish media market. The concentration in the hands of only a few actors requires action by the legislator. The National Radio and Television Council has engaged in such work. The problem she's signalling is very serious. This problem until recently Poles did not know at all, they had no right to know. The report states that entities operating on the Polish market are not obliged at all to publish the ownership structure or to notify the public of changes in the structure. Other regulations concerning the concentration of property in the media are also insufficient. Media law and the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection do not set thresholds to prevent significant concentration. Main media owners in Poland beside the Polish Television, i.e. Polsat, the owner of TVN, Agora, ZPR Media, Bauer Media or Ringier Axel Springer, hold shares in various sectors exceeding 70% the market. There is no regulation to prevent cross concentration so far, hence such shares. As I said, the need for changes in this respect in Polish law The National Council of Radiophony and Television strongly emphasizes and is actively involved in legislative work. Such a deconcentration project is currently being developed at the Ministry of Culture. The 2016 National Radio and Television Council report covers a specific period of time. Until September, the Council's term of office under the patronage of the former President Bronisław Komorowski was held by the PO-PSL-SLD coalition. This composition seemed to ensure, for years, that pluralism on the Polish market was as narrow as possible, the transmission of the largest uniform media and, of course, the kind that favored the interests of the parties from which the members of the national council came. Drastic treatments were seen in public media, where the entire transmission was controlled exclusively by people trusted by POs, PSLs and SLDs. There were records on the names of experts, publicists, writers, poets and artists not ours, not the Platform, not the PSL, not the SLD, not the post-communa. You just didn't invite them. All journalists who had the courage to openly criticize the government of Tusk or Kopacz were expelled. Stubborn antennas, editors, and programs. The position of journalists has also been weakened, who have been politically out of line. They were deserted, they didn't have employment contracts, they were in leases. [[This is the report for that year?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u406	I'd like to call you all in order so you don't mind, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u407	Fortunately, in December 2015, the Sejm adopted a law laying down powers for the appointment and dismissal of boards and supervisory boards of public media minister of the Treasury. Thanks to that... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u408	Excuse me, Member, one second. There's an order of discussion. [[That's what you always say.]] I invite you from the Platform to sign up. Then you'll even be able to scream from the platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u409	I wish there was more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u410	I'll count you in. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u411	Fortunately, in December 2015, the Sejm adopted a law laying down powers for the appointment and dismissal of boards and supervisory boards of public media minister of the Treasury. In this way, party activists of the Civic Platform, SLD and PSL lost control of public television. As a result, this monopoly in mainstream media was broken, and the right of Poles to be well informed, not lied to and manipulated, began to be fulfilled. The previous composition of the council also used the method of facts made. Two large radio stations, Radio ZET and RMF, applied for an extension of the concession two years before the expiry of the old one. The National Council hurriedly, because in 2016, two years before the expiry of their concessions, it granted new 10-year concessions in force since 2018. This haste of the nominations of PO, PSL and SLD resulted from the desire to maintain the status quo in the media system of the III Polish Republic and to take away the possibility of a decision to extend or not these concessions to the Council in the new composition. This must be said explicitly: it was a political decision, which had nothing to do with substantive action, ambiguous ethically and using gaps in the law. Similarly, the Platform attempted to assassinate the Constitutional Tribunal by selecting judges in reserve. Fortunately, they failed in the case of the tribunal. The discussion of the council led by Jan Dworak, which gives an idea of the philosophy of the council, was also a regulation reducing participation in the television programme of programmes produced in Polish and participation in the radio programme of Polish verbal and musical programmes. Here is one example of this regulation. There is a radio broadcaster in which classical music takes 75% A month's antenna time. Guess what percentage of classical music he was obliged to broadcast. He was obliged to issue 7%. [[2016 Report]] Regulation of May 2016 The National Radio and Television Council has committed 7% to broadcast classical music radio station emitting 75% serious music. That's the philosophy. Moniuszko, Lutosławski, Wieniawski don't stand a chance with the Platform's governments. The National Television Council has received many complaints over the course of this year, several thousand complaints about how commercial media operate. Most, because more than 12 thousand, to TVN and TVN24 for Poles' opinion full of manipulations and violations of information and publishing materials. [[The chain of St. Anthony.]] In one case, the national council initiated proceedings. It was about lyingly assigning words to a member of Jake's crew, Arthur Wosztyl, a witness to the Smolensk disaster. It was one of the many manipulations of this station about the catastrophe in Smolensk. The National Council called on the station to put in place corrective procedures. Unfortunately, it was a very, very mild position in the feeling of many Poles. According to the concession granted to TVN by the National Council, this station is required to provide reliable and objective information, to comment on events, so as to ensure that the recipients gain knowledge and orientation on social, economic and political issues. As it fills, you can watch it every day, and how it sneaks into social protests, you could watch in December 2016. The National Radio Council could only take actions that allowed it to do so. I hope that the work undertaken by the current composition of the National Council on the new media law will break some of the imposibility enshrined in the current law. With this hope, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u412	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Puda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u413	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016. Although the concept of national media has not yet reached the legal definition, it can be concluded that the concept of national media covers all companies of public radio, television and the Polish Press Agency SA. Legal status prior to the entry into force of the Act on the National Media Council did not favour cooperation between individual public broadcasting companies and PAP. The result was often a waste of energy and resources to repeat various initiatives, and even cooperation with commercial media, which competed on the market for public media. It is worth noting that for the first time in history, the Sejm opposition has two seats in a five-person composition guaranteed by law, which ensures pluralism and guarantees the opposition access to information about the activities of the council. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] In view of the above, given that the activities of the National Media Council included in the information relate to the six-month period, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the action taken and will vote in favour of the information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u414	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I admit that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club did not foresee a sufficiently cabaret sound of this debate. Perhaps if you needed someone with a greater sense of humor, you would stand here, but it was my honor to present the position of the club, so I will try to be fairly serious. In the report of the 2016 National Radio and Television Council, I found three really interesting information. The first - about the escape of viewers from all public television programs, including thematic channels, widely available. Only TVP Series and TVP ABC defended themselves. The second - about the lack of remote control for television sets in homes of 12 100 petitioners with a request to revoke the concession for TVN and TVN24. If these people had pilots, they could only watch the kind of TV they like. I do not know if it would be Television Trwam or TVP Info, in any case they would not be forced to watch the entire rich programme offer of our audiovisual market. Finally, the third information is about the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 13 December 2016, according to which the deprivation of the national board of competence - what has happened - the appointment of members of public-company bodies of radio and television is contrary to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1st Constitution. Even if there is a deep dislike for the constitution, this section of the report is a classic self-incrimination. Then I ask, why spend PLN 25 million a year to support an institution that cannot defend itself against a party good change, or to ensure that the public media does not reject decent people from the screen, or even does nothing to itself with petitions of zealous followers of this change from the silhouette of the current rulers. For these three reasons, we believe that the report of the National Radio and Television Council should simply be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, About the National Radio and Television Council as the advice of this, this and nothing - it was a quote, I apologize - sometimes in this room We had a dispute, of course. But here in the Polish media space appeared a new creation, the National Media Council. It is true that you have noticed a member of the Law and Justice Club, a horse with a row of those who in any other law will find the concept of national media, but let us not pick on little things. The council is, that and in time such media will appear. The question is whether the presidents of Kurski and Sobala are enough people to lead them. Exactly. The National Media Council will not be finished until tomorrow, the Act on its appointment shall be dated 22 June 2016 and the seat of the Parliamentary Council shall be held on 22 July 2016. Well, well, sign in on the anniversary of the 1944 July manifesto, that's something. I'm surprised the guys did it. [[Applause]] Never mind the digressions. The history of the uprising of the National Media Council should be more interested in Deputy Prime Minister Gowin and Morawiecki, the first is a specialist in science, the second is a specialist in modernity, because here is Deputy Minister Czabański responsible for media reform prepared a draft law, then Members of Czabański, Lichocka and Kruk carried out this law through parliament to finally get elected to its composition... [[They sacrificed themselves.]] ...and after a year they prepared a report, presented it at a committee meeting and voted on it. If it weren't for them, the Law and Justice would have run out of votes. [[Applause]] Isn't that the perfect model of perpetuum mobile? Closed circuit - it forms itself, drives itself and finally verify itself. I really encourage the prime ministers of science and modernity to apply this. This is a solution worthy of this government and this parliamentary majority, I think not only here. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The functioning of this council cannot be merely a mockery. However, it is formally up to her to decide who and how she manages public media. She's the one who should have access to company documents on an equal footing with supervisory boards. She's finally setting up the software councils. On the first point we remember on TV the appeal of President Kurski - the intervention of President Kaczyński, Jacek Kurski returns. On the radio, the call of Barbara Stanisławczyk, Barbara Stanisławczyk, the appointment of Jack Sobali, the one who was supposed to be the president of the radio from the beginning. Not a single representative of non-governmental organisations has been selected for the radio and television programme councils, but in return they are crawling with prominent law and justice politicians. On TVP Polonia there was even a place for two vice ministers, Dworczyk and Dziedziczak. It's called an alliance of power with a nation. Documents which I believe the National Media Council should be demanding, as far as I know, are not received by Mr Czabański from the Polish Television Boards or the Polish Radio. I suppose it doesn't bother him very much. Unfortunately, there are still two members appointed by the President from among the candidates put forward by the biggest opposition clubs. They are in a minority, so with their vote the three members of the PiS do not count, but they were not invited to the meeting of the committee examining the report, just in case. The outcome of the vote on this report in Council 3:2 is not stated in the document presented to the Sejm, and the separate sentence of Mr Julius Braun is simply not quoted. And so today we have come to debate the false report of the false National Media Council. What are we gonna do with him? We'll throw it in the trash. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u416	Thank you. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have two reports of the two-headed hydra created by the camp, Law and Justice with appetizers, reports which are not, to say the least, serious and should not be considered by the High House at all. A terrible thing has happened to public media: they have actually ended their lives. There's no public television today, there's no public radio, there's just people pretending to be journalists, people pretending to be editors... [[Voice from the room: Don't insult the journalists.]] ...people who often play the role of political batterers, not objective commentators of political or public life in Poland. And most of all... [[That's what happened. Now don't insult the reporters.]] ...and most of all... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u418	Yeah, it's both sides. Madam, if you wouldn't mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u419	...we've got to figure it out. In fact, public media are an example of one of these public life institutions - I speak of it with great regret, because I once worked on public television, I myself was on the programme council for cultural environments, before I became a politician, a member of the programming board of Poznań Radio Mercury - in which PiS implements its Leninist principle of staff: staff above all. In fact, the short WKP course (b) is a model for you, my dear PiS country, because it is difficult to treat what you do with public media differently. [[What are they doing with communism?]] What's the worst, public media do not implement the Radio and Television Act, do not implement the Public Mission Act. These rules are broken every day, or perhaps the most every night. Therefore, I will not be surprised if soon no one from Poles and Poles will pay any subscription to the Party Television of Law and Justice or the Party Radio of Law and Justice. You bring to grotesque what used to be our common property, regardless of the different, of course, perturbations and stories that these media had, internal history. And I regret to say this: this chapter in the history of Polish culture, Polish media, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When it comes to public media, unfortunately, it must be considered to be extremely closed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u420	Thank you. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u421	Thank you, Marshal. What is public television, everyone sees and can talk very much about how badly things are going on in public media, how not objective public media are, how badly the proportions of invited guests are affected, even in the topics of information services, how badly artistic life is organized in public media. This is something you can talk about really much, and I think everyone has an opinion about it. Today I came to deliver an opinion, a statement on the report of the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council. As far as the National Media Council is concerned, at its appointment, we have heard how much it will be needed, how it will have broad competence, how it will ultimately lead to public media becoming a public medium, a medium just as each of us would like to see it. We have heard of a number of competences that will lead to the mission becoming what will continue to be public television. Meanwhile, at the committee meeting we heard that the National Media Council has no competence. The report is, I would say, quite short, given the powers that the National Media Council was supposed to have. The effectiveness of taking care of the mission is also questionable. I don't see the missionary programs we've heard about at the announcements of a large media law. I didn't read it, I didn't see a draft media law anywhere, which was supposed to result in this depoliticisation of national media or public media. There is also no good project that would even provide funding for public media. We have a lot of information about the financial problems of public television, a lot of information about the increasingly smaller salaries for those who work in these media, the worse working conditions for those who have worked in these media for many years and this ant work ensures their quality. On the other hand, I do not agree with one thing that we hear in the debate on public media. In public media they work all the time - there are fewer of them - very hardworking and good journalists. They must be remembered, especially when we are talking about an authority that has the opportunity to change the presidents of these institutions. There are still honest journalists there, and there are still honest workers, real people who should stay there. There's less and less of them, but they're still there. So I do not agree with what the Platform said earlier, that these media are already completely intercepted by one policy option. There's still the last of them to defend themselves. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Underground.]] As far as the report of the National Radio and Television Council is concerned, it is such a strict technocratic report. In fact, apart from the evaluation of a well done job, just a well prepared document can actually be said little. It is a constitutional body that operates and, in principle, it makes no sense to discuss this report, because others simply could not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u422	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modernzna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For me, as a man of culture, today's report is extremely important. I would like to tell you that what has happened recently on public television is calling for vengeance to heaven. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would very much like you to move your debate somewhere else if you don't want to listen to me. Well, public television has recently made dramatic decisions of a censorial nature. From the point of view of the former director of the theatre, the culture man, the editor of the magazine, the theatrical critic, but today I would also like to tell you that the practices that are part of public television are unacceptable. In connection with recent statements by the President of the Polish Television by Mr.Jack Kurski about the actress of the Warsaw Theatre of Powszechny Julia Wyszyńska, which took place also during the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on 7 June 2017, I ask, or in fact, for the National Council of Radiophony and Television to make sure that President Kurski never makes censorship decisions. During this meeting President Kurski declared that under his rule the Polish Television would not broadcast any premiere broadcasts with the participation of an actress. In April 2017, the premiere of the Theatre Studio Two entitled "Theatre Studio" was cancelled. The white blower, in which Julia Wyszyńska played one of the main roles. The president of the Polish Television did not hide that the decision not to broadcast the show was related to the participation of the actress in the performance At the same time, Mr Kurski declared that the show would be on the air only if Julia Wyszyńska had removed the scenes. He also undertook to cover TVP's costs of re-production of recordings with the participation of another actress. The decisions taken by the President of Polish Television Jack Kurski are a manifestation of censorship and are in clear contradiction with the article. 73 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, but also violates the Article. 213 of this constitution, which refers to the National Radio and Television Council, which has a duty to uphold freedom of expression. You haven't made a decision to defend an actress. Not much, Mrs. Lichocka was talking about journalism and people during the Civic Platform. Here's a clear, unambiguous example of an actress record. This is human rights violations. You can't do that in a democratic country. I'm sure you can't do that on public television. But that's not all President Kurski did on public television. He removed from the antenna the Pegaza, in which there was a material devoted to the performance directed by Przemysław Wojciechek, in which there was an element concerning the Smolensk catastrophe. This was taken off the air, too. Not to mention that Pawlikowski's film, Ida, was given a commentary because it may have threatened public awareness. One thing is certain: this television under Jack Kurski's direction is scandalous television. I am absolutely not satisfied with the fact that you are silent about this. Your conformism scares me. Reformism is not a form of public life. As the National Radio and Television Council, you have a duty to protect artists, to protect the free word, and to protect free art. [[Applause]] You don't do that. Therefore, the Modern rejects this scandalous document that you are presenting to us. We do not agree to censoring, marginalising Polish culture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u424	Thank you. And I invite Mrs. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My colleague Krzysztof Mieszkowski basically said everything in a very clear and very strong way. And you could say, "Well, what more is there to say? But, ladies and gentlemen, the matter of the National Media Council. Your boss, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, has been speaking very often from this speaker for many years about the fact that he is looking for a deal. He sees a deal everywhere. He's looking, looking, and he can't find. And it would be enough to look at what is happening to the National Media Council because the National Media Council was created because you wanted to. You've written your own rules, you've gathered yourselves, you've chosen yourselves, you're judging yourselves, you're determining what's to be and you're saying it's okay. This is the classic definition of the layout Jarosław Kaczyński is looking for. That's the deal. You present here from the speaker or the board members... Actually, you're both here and here. You're Members, you're on the Committee on Culture, you're Chairman. You're gonna hang out in this posse yourself, and you're gonna end up saying it's all pretty and beautiful, 'cause you're gonna love it so much. And now a little more serious. You are representatives who represent manipulation, propaganda, defamation, disrespect. You are doing everything you can to discourage Poles and Poles from having public television in general. And taking the opportunity, because I have four minutes left, I'd like to ask the members of the National Media Council about one important thing. One of the main tasks of the National Media Council is the appointment and dismissal of boards. Let's focus on public television. Today we learned that public television will show the festival in Opole in September. I have a question for you: Did President Kurski, the one you wanted to cancel, but you couldn't cancel because Jarosław Kaczyński forbade you, already made a declaration on your hands that he wouldn't censor the artists? Did he make such a declaration? And did he tell you what the cast of the Opole Festival would be like? I'll ask the rest of the questions later. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u426	Thank you. Please, Mrs Urszula Pasławska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u427	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Equal access to public media is the essence of democracy. This was what the opposition fought for in the times of the Polish People's Republic. And I regret to say today that we, as an opposition, must also fight for this. I also regret to note that the ridiculous name created by Internet users makes a great contribution to reality. There's no TVP today, there's no TVPiS today. You can see and hear and feel more and more. The existing constitution obliges public broadcasters to guarantee equal opportunities for all parties to present their positions in public media. Meanwhile, public media, and television in particular, dominated the propaganda of the PiS. In 2016, the politicians of the ruling party took 70% antenna time intended for all lots. The PiS was presented 13 times more often than my formation, but already twice as often as the Civic Platform, the largest opposition party. The worrying trend is also growing in the case of regional media, regional radio stations. And I regret to say that my native Radio Olsztyn is the leader in this matter. These are hard data from the National Radio and Television Council, and this was not the case in previous governments. I would remind you that in the second quarter of 2015, just before the elections, politicians of the opposition and coalition at that time used the same amount of air time - 50% each. The mission, which should be a priority today, has been replaced by censorship. Journalists who should be objective, report events, are fired, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And in their place came the piss-possessed politicians. A proof of this should be the words of the TVPiS president, who in a recent interview for the industry's Virtual Media portal said, I quote: If TVP journalists defend the PiS, they counterbalance the pro-oppositional tilt of most media. After all, these are mockerys, as is the fact that the former PiS spindoctor becomes president of the public broadcaster. It's only part of the ruling party's actions that started its governments just by jumping to the media. We remember that well. But it's not only about that, it's about jumping not only to public media, but also to the allocation of long-term concessions to private editors related to the governing party. In front of our eyes, a media scandal similar to that of Rywin arises, but with far greater consequences. The first stage of the media jump was the establishment of a National Media Council dominated by important politicians of Law and Justice and embezzling it through public editorial offices. The second stage - this time the private media leap - is the weakening of the KRRiT. For the last 1.5 years we have become accustomed to aggressive propaganda in Polish Television and Polish Radio. The appetite of the ruling party for media is growing as we consume. PiS, and its leader, is the party most frequently shown also by private editors. It is enough to mention that around 37 thousand were published in June 2016. material on the PiS. Clearly, it is not always in the context in which you would like it, so now there is another stage of the leap - this time for the division of concessions by the National Radio and Television Council, of course under the supervision of the National Media Council. Her President, Krzysztof Czabański, publicly admitted that his government must be assisted by a national council: that it should not be disturbed by the fact that some of the media authorities taking part in the market are calling and parts are not. According to the report of the National Council, more than 14 000 have been received in the past year. complaints, of which 12 thousand. Those were complaints about TVN and TVN24. There was also no shortage of requests to revoke the concession. You can guess who's behind this landing, who's leading it. Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz, a Member of Law and Justice, actively involved in the attack, demanding the National Council for the withdrawal of concessions for TVN. Mr Michał Karnowski, the owner of media portals and Internet television in Poland.pl, advertised in the news of TVP. Karnowski writes on his website: Are the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council going to do anything more to restore pluralism on the market of radio and television broadcasters? Are the concessions granted for the Third Republic of Poland the last and in the ether it will be as far as the grave? Probably not. You can only guess. The number of concessions is limited. TVN has it by 2024. The KRRiT will soon have a difficult task to carry out, in which it can probably count on the support of the National Media Council. Before that, she had a very strong authority. Let me give you just one example... No, she didn't enjoy authority. Let me give you an example. In her report she recommended that the public media carry out the mission by issuing educational and cultural programmes and, here I quote, to shape attitudes of tolerance, promoting respect for human rights and dignity, the ability to accept differences, programmes presenting development and political, social and economic transformations of Poland after 1989, among others. actions for the common good under conditions of diversity of views. Have any of you seen such programs on TVP or heard on Polish Radio in the last few months? National media are doing exactly the opposite. Instead of programmes with tolerance, they emit aggressive propaganda, instead of cultural programmes - disco polo, instead of education - Turkish series. No sanctions from national media do not meet, are fully accepted by the National Media Council and the National Media Council. Censorship, however, is displayed by viewers. Over the past year, ratings have fallen dramatically, programme 1 has lost an estimated 16%. , Program 2 and 20%. The institutions theoretically appointed to supervise public media are diplomatically silent. I'm asking you to what standards It'll get us there. The right to objective information is the value enshrined in the Polish Constitution and the Declaration of Human Rights. There is no democratic state without pluralistic media. However, state activists do not even hide that their aim is to monopolise the entire market, including private broadcasters. The withdrawal of state adverts from hostile PIS editors such as the Gazeta Wyborcza or the Newsweek is another installment of this landing, as well as the pacification of... [[Game in the O.R.]] I didn't bother you. ...market regulators with the National Radio and Television Council at the head. No one has thought of such standards since 1989. It's the way to the PRL convention. Luckily, it won't work at all, because there's the Internet. [[I'm sure it's ZSL.]] The ZSLs are in your group, not in the PSL. [[No.]] I am in the Polish People's Party. Mr. Marshal, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u428	Yes. Mrs Lichocka, if you don't mind, I would be eternally grateful to you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u429	Luckily, like I said, it's not gonna work, because there's the Internet. I'm sure the dark people won't buy it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank God.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u430	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u431	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you what. At present, the media, Minister Czabański, are cleaning themselves and weakening themselves, but I wanted to tell you: mostly from the audience. In the annual report of the National Radio and Television Council, I miss a chapter devoted to the action to reduce and eliminate propaganda procedures of the Polish Television. The report of the National Radio and Television Council would summarize the words: observation with head in the sand. After all, whose task is it to discipline the management of TVP with what Kurski at the head, if not the National Radio and Television Council? Let's get rid of the dream, ladies and gentlemen. He's a pawn, counsel is now a pawn on a chessboard, whose only job is to stay busy at the same time. He doesn't warn an unpunished bishop, President Kurski. Even when he makes gross mistakes consciously and exposes himself to its beatings, the king will come to his rescue in the care of other forms that do not respect the principles of fair play. Public television received PLN 365 million from the subscription. I will refer to two public service broadcasting tasks. The first point is to protect the interests of the public. Is it in the interest of the public to supply content exclusively to glorify the activities of the current authority? Does the recipients only deserve to be transferred from the start [[♪ The bell ♪]] to say: for the last 8 years Polish and Polish people? Is it in the interest of public media audiences to barbecue and attack everyone...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u432	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u433	...who criticizes the power of the PiS?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u434	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u435	Take it to heart. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u436	Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Punishment for employees for not evicting Father Rydzyk's spot, notorious anti-refugee chase, forceful introduction to entertainment programs of patriotic songs, manipulation of facts and data in news news, complete lack of objectivity, criminal behavior and comments of journalists, embarrassing level of discussion or programs, for example, repeatedly cited by Studio YaYo, at the end of censorship - a single word mere quality. I was really surprised to hear the words of Minister Czabański today, who said that the National Media Council was created to provide reliable information. I'm sorry, I don't want to do this in the Polish Sejm, I'd like to quote such absurd information, but I'll repeat it for TVP Info. I quote: An unusual incident occurred in the jungle on the Indonesian island of Borneo. Almost 200-pound orangutan attacked and raped a red-haired tourist from Ireland. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] This is fake news. This is, ladies and gentlemen... [[That's the level.]] ...fake news downloaded from the site, from a service with imaginary articles. And Poles are to be proud of such television. I have a question for you: How will you persuade Poles, because the President of the National Radio and Television Council spoke today about the subscription, how do you want to explain to Poles that they should pay for such information, if only basic... [[Bravo!]] ...information is neither reliable nor reliable [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are they real? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! -15% It's Teleexpress, -11%. It's news. So it goes down more and more, the viewers are getting more and more disgusted. I would like to ask the National Council of Radio and Television how it reacted to the events on 16 December, how it reacted to the fact that we here as the Civic, Modern and PSL Platform stood up for the media, we stood up for them to report on the Sejm's deliberations so that they could be in the Seym halls. What did you do? Why is there not a single reflection in your report on this destruction of the media here in the Sejm? If you're allowed to destroy the media here in the Seym, then what's going on outside this building? Mr Krzysztof Czabański says that his mission, his presence in national media, the purpose of existence is to guarantee the accuracy of information. If the meaning of its existence is honesty, how far is it from it at this moment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u440	Thank you. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on Radiophony and Television obliges the public media to deliver an offer addressed to the whole society through various programmes and other information services, publications, culture, entertainment, education and sport with pluralism and impartiality. Is this duty done and how? I ask this because the time taken to report to the National Council and to the National Media Council was intended to provide an in-depth analysis of the functioning of the media, especially the public. Instead of answering this simple question, he feeds us statistics. According to the report of the National Council, the National Council of Onegdaj proposed that broadcasters consider placing tolerance and anti-discrimination and exclusion attitudes on programmes, as well as presenting Poland's development and political, social and economic changes after 1989. I would like to ask whether, in the light of this provision, the national council has taken a position, mainly towards public television, which in the context of a very serious discussion about refugees practically daily feeds us xenophobic, even racist materials. Does the National Council share the view, also given priority to public media, that the only changes after 1989 were the night shift of Jack Kurski, as if it were looped in the Polish Television, and the political, economic and social development of Poland owes only to the twins and from now on additionally to Cornel Morawiecki? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, it hurts. It's supposed to hurt.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u442	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Like the National Radio and Television Council, or the National Media Council, it intends to respond to the violation of the statutory obligation of pluralism, impartiality, balance and independence, since almost 70% Are the politicians of the ruling party occupied by aerial time for information and publicity? The question to the President, Minister Krzysztof Czabanski, because I am sorry, I do not know how to name you. Looking at the places you are taking up in this plenary room, it seems that you are necessary everywhere. On the other hand, I would like to know and I think that Poles also, how much the annual activity of the National Media Council costs and how often the National Media Council has met during the last year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u444	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u445	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have three questions. In fact, what is the financial situation of the Polish Television, which has been managed for a year by President Jack Kurski? In the assessment of the National Radio and Television Council, were management decisions taken by Mr Kurski beneficial to this company? And third question: What action has been taken and what action is the National Radio and Television Council going to take to eliminate political censorship? There have already been examples from my previous speakers about blocking the emission of the program, we should mention the embodiment of the logo of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Helping with the clothing of opposition politicians, blocking artists who would appear at the festival in Opole, or even an example of the last few dozen hours, the entry on TVP Info: The Empire of Tadeusz Rydzyk is growing, the director's father expands the scope of his services and has just opened a cafe. This isn't Tadeusz Rydzyk's first business. According to the weekly, the monk's property amounts to about PLN 339 million, which would give him 83rd place on the list of the richest Poles. This text disappeared in a few dozen minutes. He's been replaced by information that there's a café for the director's father, [[♪ The bell ♪]] coffee and ice cream and sweets are available and prices are affordable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u446	Thank you. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has a voice. There's no envoy. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is short: What business interests does the public sender have in order to advertise on his air the start of private online television of the Karnowski brothers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u448	Thank you. Mr Janusz Śniadek, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Why did I disappear, Marshal?]] Okay, I'll explain. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer again to the time of the previous term of the Sejm, when Mr Dworak together with Mr Braun - it was a deal that was completely unbeatable - they referred to the idea of healing the finances of public television by the fact that they called releasing about 500 TV workers, moving them to the so-called. junkyards, civil law contracts. As far as I know, there are very few employees who remain on TV until today. The savings were to amount to PLN 15 million. This was boasted of at the meeting of the cultural committee. Savings for the state budget were illusory, even it was a lie, because the 15 million PLN saved by television were precisely the funds that had to be increased by the grant to the Social Security Office, they simply increased the hole in the Social Security Office, not to mention the fact that it was financed in this way at the expense of future, much lower pensions of employees. I would like to ask a question addressed to the national council. I am aware that employment is primarily a competence of the television board, but whether, as part of the supervision of subordinate companies... [[This isn't the year after 2016.]] ...the employment policy should not be of interest and should not discernment be carried out, is the policy of garbage contracts in public media acceptable and can simply be tolerated in them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u450	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u451	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the honourable council whether she knows the Charter of Ethics of the Media, which is also on the TVP website, developed by the Polish Journalists Association. There we can find seven principles, which, in my opinion, should continue to apply to journalists working on public television. First of all, the principle of truth. Can we talk about the principle of truth if, in October, Jacek Kurski promises that TVP will not shy away from informing about the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, and a few months later, the heart of WYŚP disappears from the MP's Navy flap? Second, the principle of objectivity. Can we talk about the principle of objectivity, if reliable reporting of different points of view is a relationship from Kaczyński - one extreme opinion - to Macierewicz - is another extreme opinion according to public television? Can we talk, thirdly, about the principle of separating information from commentary when we watch News daily and see how the news, so-called. The news is being presented, even by your editor Bugala? Can we talk, fourthly, about the principle of honesty when, in relation to the accident, Prime Minister Szydło disappears a double continuous, which is replaced by an interrupted line? We have three more rules that I won't be able to discuss today, but I wanted to ask the honourable counsel if he knows these rules and whether he thinks that the journalists continue these principles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They should be guided. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u452	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Puda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u453	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Is it true that after eight years of coalition governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, the situation in public media that was found there was very difficult? Is it true that, as a result of the deliberate activities of civil platform and PSL politicians, the subscription fee collection system has been disassembled? And the attitude of politicians ruling the coalition to public media during the PO-PSL coalition is best illustrated by their statements. For example, one can recall Donald Tusk's leader: We want to eliminate the scandalous tribute of subscription. There's no illusions, public media have their owner... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Right.]] ...it is a state, so it must be weakened to the maximum so that it is not a dream prey for the ruling team. Is it true that the announcement of the termination of the subscription fee has resulted in a drastic drop in revenue from this title, which has contributed to the further commercialisation of the offer of public media and above all Polish Television? And is it true, at the end, that the attempts to maximize the weakening and tearing out of national teeth... [[That's not true.]] ...what Donald Tusk said in this interview, were activities to the detriment of public media... [[It's a lie.]] ...and the National Media Council is the first step to be able to take action to correct the situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Lying!]] [[It's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! National Media Council. It's her chairman. Minister The Czabani here gave us a beautiful presentation of the mission of the National Media Council. The main mission is to repair public media. And he also had the courage to say that this is what he's doing. As he does, we can see from the results. He said that public media, national media, as he calls them, should first of all show civil society - an obvious lie - that the national media it represents should provide access to various political, social and other groups - maybe it should not, but it is another lie - that national media should provide objective information - they should, but they do not, another lie. Minister, I think you're treating yourself as a serious man. A little respect for yourself and a little critical look. It's embarrassing that the minister can come out on the stand and lie against obvious facts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u456	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modernzna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u457	Mr. Marshal! I would just like to recall one more fact from a very rich biography of public media. On October 9, as you know, Andrew Wajda died. I already told you about it from that bleacher. Public media didn't sacrifice this outstanding artist, the biggest film director actually nothing, zero or almost zero. And on TVP Info there was a minimum, and on TVP1, and on TVP2 Andrzej Wajda actually did not exist. On that day, public television moved to TVN24, where Andrzej, the work of Andrzej Wajda, was devoted all day. That's one thing. The second thing is this. Because public television should be an area of dialogue, and it is a space of monologue, it is an area of some silence of the opposition, because the opposition is actually so marginalized that it is invisible at all. And the third thing, some totally outrageous thing, is the relationship between editors, heads of public television and refugees. This is pure racism. How can you tolerate these obvious negligence, this discomfort that the ordinary Polish viewer must face? Why are you letting this happen and letting it happen? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u458	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council of Mr Witold Kołodziejski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u459	Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, the report concerns 2016 and thus 2/3 of this term of office is the term of office of President Jan Dworak. So that when we talk about this report, especially from the Platform Club, we also need to be aware that we are evaluating the activities of 2/3 of the members of the national council indicated directly, then by the Marshal of the Sejm and later by the President. As regards the brief response to these questions, indeed, as we are talking about disparities, first Madam Katarasińska said that she learned from our report about the decline in public television coverage. Here are the declines in ratings of all channels, and TVN, and Polsat. Such large stations lose viewers in favour of small stations, and above all the audience moves to the Internet. That's a trend. And in this report really these trends are visible, because both Polsat and TVP1, TVN and TVP2 lose their audience, TVP Info, TVN7, while they gain smaller stations such as Puls, Puls2 as well as... I don't know, there's also a TVP ABC here as a little channel. This is the growth, this is the fragmentation of the television market. When it comes to questions about these disparities, disparities in showing politicians of different parties, it actually looks like this on public television: here is 2016 - red, and here is 2015 - the blue one. The trend is roughly the same, i.e. In 2015 the coalition PO-PSL is this high pole, and the opposition is this low pole. The same is left here, the ruling coalition - the high pole, the opposition - the low pole. Only the parties have changed because the government has changed. [[How's he showing up?]] The principle is the same: television governing parties are shown more often than opposition parties. Whether it's good or not, I don't know. This is also due to the fact that representatives of the authorities also participate at that time. The situation is completely different in Polish Radio. Here, on the contrary, the opposition in 2016 has a higher post than the ruling coalition. In 2015, however, the coalition had much more representatives of antenna time than the contemporary opposition, i.e. PiS. So here the trend has turned in favour of the ruling party. The same is true if we compare the times of all regional radio stations. A lot more antenna time is meant for opposition parties. And the year before that was the other way around. So that these trends are quite different than you present, and where they are actually the same, nothing has changed. We may wonder why such trends and on television led by President Kurski and on TV led by President Braun. With regard to the budget of the National Council, 25 million a year, why to spend - Madam President also put this question - these are the costs of the institution's operation. [[Member of Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: But there was no National Media Council.]] President Dworak played for 36 million, so this is much, much less in relation to that reported budget demand. I will not comment on these comments on public television journalists, because I think it is simply unacceptable to speak. Together we were on the Programme Council of Polish Radio and we are dealing with - to Mr Grupiński - with journalists about such or other political sympathies, worldviews. They should not be denied this, the more that complaints about journalistic integrity, which... [[It's just the kind, not the others.]] ...they come, Mrs, to the national council, are much more often complaints about journalistic integrity of journalists working in TVN, and I would never allow such attention at one or another station, or at small stations, where indeed very questionable... and national council e.g. In the case of Superstation, she reacted very strongly. But also there we do not allow such attention, we value professionalism and one and the other. As regards the protection of artists, Mr Mieszkowski spoke as an artist, I also speak as an artist. We tried to get involved, but it turned out, for example. In a case like the black list where Mrs. Kayah was supposed to be that she didn't exist at all, and Mrs. Kayah has recently been a guest of various public television programs. It also turned out that protesting artists who didn't want to perform... [[We're talking about a specific...]] ...at the Opole festival, there were more than the performances planned in Opole itself. So all of this wasn't really true. And I don't know exactly what the theater artist's situation is, and I know it's about the relationship with another performance, but these things are already being done by the national council, please forgive me, it doesn't work. [[You don't do anything.]] As for how we are going to react - Mr King - to the lack of reliability, manipulation - manipulation is, I will tell you more, verbal and extraverbal - indeed we are analysing it, monitoring it, many proceedings have been conducted in these matters, many prescriptive decisions have been issued for broadcasters. Indeed, the provisions of the Act are quite general here, in fact there is no direct order for journalistic reliability in the Act on Radiophony and Television, which in turn is inscribed in the Press Law. This is the subject of our discussion, as well as our discussion with the TVN Board on the complaint by Counselor Binienda, where this lack of integrity was evident in our view, while the legal basis for applying and demonstrating... [[How was Marshal Kidawa-Błońska treated on public television?]] ...that something that is obviously not true should not be shown on the air, is so in the light of our bill that it is actually quite difficult later to enforce. So that I address you here too, we have a big problem with that. As far as garbage deals are concerned, that's actually a big problem. I, ladies and gentlemen, was also at committee meetings where President Braun was invited, and Mr Dworak, when hundreds of journalists were released from public television. Then, it is in the minutes, so it was, the president and the president promised that this was an experiment for 2 years, after 2 years this agreement will be extended for another 2 years or the journalists will return immediately, or as far as possible after 4 years. Today there is no trace of them, there is no trace of the company, after the contract, after the ZUS, which was not paid, the bands were broken and it is difficult to complete them today - to the extent that during the conversation with the president of television about external production, because there is still a high share of external production in Polish Television, the president said that production teams and journalistic teams are devastated, just these people They've gone somewhere, found another job, I don't know, in other editors, or changed. And today it's not that easy to recreate it, I think it takes a lot of time. There are some ideas about the reproduction of editorial offices, production groups, such antennas, not following the philosophy of antennas, only the philosophy of the programming context, i.e. the production of content. Perhaps around these groups there will be journalism bands that are not available today, and it is not only journalists, it is the editors and other creative workers who no longer work on TV today, and in recent years, as it turns out, they were also not sure whether the ZUS was paid for them, although the very high racket for the outsourcing company had to pay for it. So here, in fact, those announcements that were made by the president of the television network, by the director of staff, turned out to be untrue, and this was made here, in Parliament, in the convened committees - the Parliamentary and Senate committees, in the Senate's cultural committee for sure. So I think there's a chance, but it takes time. Is that true - the drop of the subscription. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, and I have always said this, still in 2007, on the cultural committee chaired by the President of Qatar, that those words signaled a sharp decline in the downloadability of the subscription. It was a breakdown. almost 50%, then it stopped at a 30% lower drop, but today it means total destruction of the system. The subscription across Europe is, in most civilized countries of the world is, everyone pays for... [[But for what, Mr. Chairman?]] ...television. Television is not, sir, 15 minutes of news you're watching, but this is a dozen channels, these are productions, these are archives... [[Not just disco polo.]] ...they're websites, they're... [[Voice from the room: But what productions? There's no production.]] ...is a whole lot of different activities without which you can't build a civilized state with its offices and institutions, whose public media are one of the most important elements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u460	Thank you, Mr President. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Czabański, President of the National Media Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Kołodziejski has already answered the questions, but actually most of the speeches made by Mr Kołodziejski These were not questions, but opinions or even insinuations, one of the Members allowed such insinuations. I'm not gonna answer your insinuations. I have a different opinion from the state. I'm not gonna convince you probably, so I don't think there's any point in doing polemics either. Just two notes, maybe three. It's the smallest. Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasińska said that she would throw the information in the trash, that it should be thrown in the trash. There is no such procedure in the Seym Rules. You may accept or reject, vote in favour or against or abstain, Madam Member. [[That's an exhausting answer.]] The second point is as follows. Well, you're terribly concerned about the state of public media, and you're very concerned that they've fallen. And yet, for how many years you have tried to weaken them, maybe even eliminate them, and certainly dismantle them. And you managed to dismantle it. Congratulations on the dismantle. We're trying to save the media now. These crocodiles of yours aren't making any impression on me or on my friends. At the end of this, a personal remark, also to Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasinska. Because you overstate the strength of three Members - two Members and one Member - that we are able to vote on the committee, the whole Sejm, to implement the bill. We've got three votes right now... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Really?]] ...you have one, Mr Grupiński, who agrees with you, has a second vote, you will be blocking us in a moment. Really don't overestimate us. This isn't how it's done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u462	Thank you, Mr President. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Jack the World.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm terribly disappointed. Public media is our common good and I had a shadow of hope that today's debate would give us the idea of how to make these media better, stronger, more creative. Unfortunately today on the part of the opposition, but also the same was true. During the debate in committee, I did not hear a single constructive thought, but only such ritual attacks. It is sad that these attacks are mostly coming from people who have done a lot for many years to bring not only public media, but the whole media market to Bantustan level, and who have populated the media with the Hyena of the Year prize winners. Oh, well, we've wasted another chance. Nevertheless, I thank all of you for your participation in the discussion, because it was a very, very informative discussion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u464	Thank you. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of both draft resolutions. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of both draft resolutions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolutions? [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Yes.]] I'm opening a discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in a joint discussion. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Please, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have very good news for Mr Czabański. Of course, I know there's no basket in the courtroom, so I can't throw this report away. On the other hand, in accordance with the procedure and regulations at second reading on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform makes an amendment, a draft resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council, on the content: The Polish Parliament rejects information about the activities of the National Media Council in 2016. It is a pity, however, that Mr President was not polite to take this debate more seriously, but it is not my thing to judge. As regards the report of the National Radio and Television Council, the same resolution, which reads: The Sejm of the Republic of Poland rejects the report of the National Radio and Television Council from its activities in 2016, I present on behalf of the club. I would just like to say to President Kołodziejski - because here he started some discussion and, to be honest, the voice of the President of the National Council was positively reflected in the voice of Mr Czabański - that of course we know very well what the term of office was like in 2016. The report is the only thing you signed off on, and that is the turn of fate, and for this report you take, as I understand it, some responsibility. And as for the $25 million, I don't mean it's an excessive amount at all. And since Mr Dworak once asked for 36... My point is that the national council, which has such limited powers and de facto cannot act more effectively, which has been taken away from constitutional competence, actually turns out to be an unnecessary body. That's all I meant. The National Media Council was established, which, I understand, would gladly take over the powers of President Kołodziejski... [[She's taken over.]] ...though, to tell you the truth, once I'm being honest, I'd rather this never happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u466	Thank you. Please, Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How can a resolution be supported if the action of the National Media Council is, as we can see, sterile? [[Fiction.]] By the time the Council was in operation, we did not get a media law to safeguard the independence of public media. We didn't get a bill to provide public funding to the media. We have not seen any record that would help artistic organisations, social organisations in any way influence the selection of staff so that our public media They were more like the BBC than the channels of countries we certainly want nothing to do with. This is a situation where it is very difficult to look for positive actions of the National Media Council, because they are simply - and I say it with full responsibility - absolutely artificial and subject to only one purpose, i.e. taking control of a medium. It is still taking control in such a horribly unsuccessful way - failed because we see what are the ratings posts, what are the programmes prepared, how information services look like, how the guests are selected, and finally how outstanding journalists lose their positions, how the journalists who are still working there are afraid of work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u468	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modernzna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Media Council is perhaps the most politicized body of the Republic of Poland. I don't see another so politicized. I have a proposal for you: back yourselves up. You've got 3:2, so I think it's gonna work. I wish you all the best. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u470	Please, Mr Grzegorz Puda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u471	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The first step to be able to take action to improve the situation in public media was the creation of a Law of 22 June 2016 of the National Media Council. According to Art. 3 (1) (a) It consists of five members, three of whom elect the Sejm and two appoint the President of the Republic of Poland from among the candidates submitted by parliamentary or parliamentary clubs created by groups whose representatives do not form part of the Council of Ministers. In parliamentary practice, this means that for the first time in history, the National Media Council Act guaranteed two seats for opposition clubs in a five-member membership. [[But why do you read it again?]] There's never been a practice like this before. An important element and strategic objective of the Council were actions aimed at bringing public media together. Such actions give the opportunity to raise their rank, strengthen the position of these media. The main aim is to ensure that the new construction of a common public media portal is effective. Such works have already started in 2016 and are still ongoing in the Polish Press Agency, on TV and Polish Radio. What is important, apart from this National Media Radio - which was not mentioned here - throughout the year it has monitored and initiated the interaction of these media at various events, so that when organizing broadcasts, relations with national events, public media interacts with each other within one group. In view of the above and given that the activities of the National Media Council included in the information on its activities relate to this six-month period, the Law and Justice Club will support this project. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u472	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading draft resolutions were tabled in print no 1626 and 1627 amendments, I propose that the Sejm refer these draft resolutions to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report on the amendments tabled. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on housing cooperatives and some other laws (print No 1624). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act and some other laws, print No 1624, primarily aims to align the provisions of the Housing Cooperatives Act with the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, to improve the operation of the cooperatives and to implement the intentions and objectives set out in the National Housing Program adopted by the Government last year. The draft contains the provisions adopted, proposed, adapting the cooperative law to the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. The first judgment of 14 February 2012, i.e. more than 5 years ago, found that the Housing Cooperatives Act was incompatible with the Constitution to the extent that it granted the tenant a claim for the transfer of ownership of the cooperative dwelling, which, with the free acquisition by the housing cooperative, was so-called. an old establishment exclusively linked to the obligation to repay the debt for the benefit arising from the lease. The bill makes it possible to buy out the so-called. former premises acquired free of charge by cooperatives after payment of the necessary and useful expenditure incurred by the cooperative. A further judgment of 5 February 2015 concerned the incompatibility of the Act with the Constitution in so far as it allows the membership of a housing cooperative of entities which do not have a legal title to the premises. The project provides for the granting of membership in the cooperative to persons bound by the law of the cooperative, i.e. having the right to a place or an expetition of that right. The second ruling of 2013 concerned non-compliance with the Constitution, in so far as housing cooperatives are authorised to regulate in the Statute the accounting rules for the return of the housing contribution where the dwelling is not sold by tender. The project provides for and introduces the principle of the valorisation of the housing contribution when, after the expiry of the cooperative tenant right to the premises, it is not possible to tender for the disposal of the premises. A further judgment of 2015 concerned, in turn, the non-compliance of the law with the Constitution as regards the failure to settle the renovation fund after the establishment of the housing community. The project introduces the principle of accounting by the cooperative with the owners of the premises of the established housing community of the registered income and expenditure of the repair fund. The project also provides for solutions to improve the activities of cooperatives, including: shall ensure that members of the cooperative are given the opportunity to participate in the general meeting by a representative, with the restriction that one representative may represent only one member. So far, there has been no such obligation, and many cooperatives in their statutes have banned the granting of power of attorney. In our view, they were registered by the courts even at that time. We introduce this possibility by law so that there is no doubt. The way in which votes are counted at the general meeting is also changing. The resolution of the General Meeting shall be adopted if the total number of members voting on the resolution is to be voted for by the Act or Statute. Changes also apply to general assemblies. They aim to improve the activities of this body by enabling the owners of premises created by the law of the housing community to decide on the management of joint real estate, whether it is still a cooperative or a community. Here members of the cooperative are left free. They do not have to be automatically deprived of the possibility of remaining and administering in the cooperative, as so far. The project also regulates the participation of owners of premises after the establishment of a housing community in expenditure related to the operation, the maintenance of real estate constituting the property of cooperatives intended to be used jointly by persons living in specific buildings or housing estates starting from the establishment of the community. It also exempts from enforcement media, electricity, water and gas charges paid by people living in housing cooperative resources. This is a revision of the Civil Procedure Code Act. Currently, these charges are subject to enforcement, which often results in the backlog of cooperatives towards media providers, aggravates the situation of cooperatives themselves, as well as all cooperatives, even those not in debt. The project also eliminates the possibility for the presidents to mirror the housing cooperative and modifies the powers of the Minister vis-à-vis the housing cooperative. We introduce a ban, we propose a ban so that the presidents of the cooperative and the persons who are directly subject to those presidents are not able to carry out the functions associated with the illustration as set out in the Act. They have to decide either they want to be president or they want to be a illustrator. Unfortunately, the practice is that the presidents who act as presidents - this is due to complaints that affect the Ministry - these illegible illustrations are carried out. We assume that when this chapter takes place that the illustrators will be persons who are not co-operatives, I apologize, the presidents of the cooperative, these mirrors will be carried out more honestly. As regards the modification of the powers of the Minister for Housing or Construction towards housing cooperatives, this is a slight change here. Of course, we must respect cooperatives as a kind of private, partly private, partly common property, so this intervention of the Minister cannot be too big, but at present there is virtually no control, i.e. is limited only to obtaining explanations from cooperatives concerning complaints. We are introducing the possibility that the Minister will be able to obtain or demand the presentation of documents that may be examined. On the basis of these documents, it will be possible to have a mirror carried out or to make a notification, e.g. law enforcement authorities if it is established that there is a suspicion of a crime. The project also includes these solutions, which I was talking about when it comes to the National Housing Programme, because there are barriers in the cooperative residential rights segment, these are new cooperative investments. The cooperative will be able to set a time limit after which it will be possible to transfer the ownership of the premises where it is possible to introduce this tenant right, typical to preserve the nature and structure of the cooperative at the moment. Practically in recent years, cooperatives have ceased to build. The ones they're building are actually just a developer, that is, they're building for sale or for rent. Most people don't. We want cooperatives to be able to achieve their basic goal, namely to build for their members. If they make an appointment with a person who wishes to be a member of the cooperative, in due course this property may be transferred if there is no funding from the state budget. Where there will be budget funding, this transfer will not be possible, but where it will be market financing, this transfer will be possible. And these are actually all the main principles of the law. I ask the High House to process and adopt the proposed amendment to the Housing Cooperatives Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u474	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Maria Zuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the government draft law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act and some other laws. The legal regulations contained in the Government's draft law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act and some other laws in print no. 1624 are only 14 articles, but these articles thoroughly order cooperative tenant rights. In a situation where there is a shortage of housing in the market and young Poles cannot afford to build a house, the introduction of changes in the functioning of housing cooperatives proposed by the government opens up better prospects for investing in the housing market to increase access to housing on the basis of the cooperative tenant's right to housing. Between 2012 and 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled three times in its judgments on the non-compliance of the provisions of the Housing Cooperatives Act with the Constitution. The Government of the Civic Platform and the PSL did not comply with the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal and did not make any changes to the applicable law identified by the Constitutional Tribunal. It is only today that the Government of Law and Justice identified by the Constitutional Tribunal removes the rules contained in the draft in print 1624. The introduction of these changes and the alignment and improvement of the law will allow the implementation of the National Housing Programme, which is part of the Law and Justice Programme. The designer proposes that members of the cooperative are only persons who, on the basis of cooperative tenant rights, have the right to a dwelling or who apply for such a right. The provisions of this law, this project, clearly define a catalogue of types of legal links that a person must fulfil in order to become a member of a housing cooperative. In this group there are also tenants of old factory apartments and founders of cooperatives. After all these years, there is finally a chance to introduce regulations setting out transparent rules and conditions for the acquisition of works flats. At the same time, the draft law requires the supervisory board to adopt a resolution on the cessation of membership within 1 month of the fact that a member of the cooperative cooperative has lost ownership rights to the premises. This obligation will also be given to the Supervisory Board in the event of the establishment of a housing community on the existing cooperative assets. That's gonna get us organized on the distribution of assets. In addition, the housing cooperative will have an obligation [[♪ The bell ♪]] within 12 months of the end of the financial year in which the housing community was established, the settlement with the owners who entered the Community. This is a very important provision because cooperatives often resist and do not want to settle, do not want to release...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u476	Madame, I apologize, but time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u477	...members of the cooperative from ties to their entity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u478	Thank you very much and I invite Mrs Aldona Młyńczak from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u479	Law and Justice... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I propose, on behalf of the Law and Justice, to work on this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u480	Thank you, Member. Now you have time for Mrs Aldona Młyńczak from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I have the honour to present a position on the government draft law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act and some other laws contained in print no. 1624. The draft amendment concerns the matter covered by the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal and seeks to implement it by adapting the provisions of the Housing Cooperatives Act of 15 December 2000 to the three Constitutional Tribunal judgments: 14 February 2012, sygn. Act P 17/10, 27 June 2013, sygn. Act K 36/12, and of 5 February 2015, sygn. Act K 60/13. However, the draft also contains regulations in areas where the Constitutional Tribunal did not comment, and these are the most controversial. In general, the amendments implementing the Constitutional Court's judgments are always positive, as they remove legal uncertainty, while detailed solutions are always the legislator's. I'll try to describe them briefly. There are changes in the scope of the article. 3 The Housing Cooperatives Act is the consequence of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in Case K 60/13, in which the Constitutional Tribunal expressly stated that the members of the cooperative may be persons who have an interest in meeting the housing needs, i.e. those who have a cooperative tenant's right to an establishment, a cooperative ownership right to an establishment, a right to a separate ownership or an exhibition of a separate ownership of the premises. This change does not seem to give rise to any doubt, as it is a consequence of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. One can only think about why a 4-year membership period for founders, which, if the right to a place is not established, expires and why it is 4 years. Amendments to Article 11 are, on the other hand, a consequence of the judgment of the Constitutional Court in Case K 36/12. These changes regulate the problems so far in situations where, after the apartment has been released, the apartment itself is not sold by tender. Indeed, this case has been left out in the present law, and it is important to regulate such situations. It is also important that these regulations appear in the Act and not only in the Statute, and relate to the settlement rules for the reimbursement of the housing contribution equivalent to the cooperative tenant's right to the premises in a situation where the premises cannot be disposed of. However, some other records are not entirely understandable. First and foremost, there is no indication of what the cooperative is going to do with such an empty premises. Sometimes it comes from other regulations, and sometimes it doesn't, e.g. when the premises are built with the contribution of the National Housing Fund. Lips are also unclear. 2 concerning the condition for a housing contribution and the conclusion of an agreement to establish a cooperative tenant right to the premises referred to in paragraph 2. 2. So further work is needed on the project. In contrast, an amendment to the Article. 48 of the Act is the consequence of the judgment of the Constitutional Court in Case P 27/10, which the previous regulation found incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution because of infringement of the property rights of the cooperative. The solution is therefore less favourable to the entitled, but in line with the constitution. This amendment regulates the issue of residential housing which has been taken over by housing cooperatives. Until now, the tenant had only a duty to repay the debt for the benefits arising from the lease agreement, so it cannot be said that this case was not settled because it was settled. Now, on the other hand, the novel amends and adds to the previous debt the need to pay the costs incurred by the cooperative for the necessary expenditures, where the cooperative purchased the building free of charge, or to pay the amount determined by the management of the cooperative, resulting from the market value of the purchase price of the building, where the cooperative purchased the building for payment. Unfortunately, there are also some legal loopholes in the draft, in which the Constitutional Tribunal did not comment. I mean, in particular, the draft article. 93a Cooperative law, which is the next step in strengthening democratic centralism by the current authority. The change is the introduction of one word, which changes the whole meaning of this article and the law as such. The fundamental difference is that in § 2 is not a case of infringement, but a case of suspected infringement, and that is a fundamental difference, because, as you know, suspicions can always be, especially if someone has a suspicious nature. This amendment introduces extraordinary powers for the Minister, who may, in the event of a suspicion of a breach of law itself, apply for an examination. It doesn't seem right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the Civic Platform proposes to submit a draft law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act for further processing in the Infrastructure Commission. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u482	Thank you very much. And now I invite Dr. Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act and some other laws. According to the justification of the project, its aim is primarily to align the provisions of the Act of 15 December 2000 on housing cooperatives with a number of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, in which the non-constitutionality of the provisions of the Act in question was found to be incompatible with the highest legal act of the Republic of Poland, whose ambiguous provisions raise interpretation doubts and form the basis of many court proceedings and which constitute numerous sources of conflicts on the line of a member of the Cooperative Authority. All over the world, cooperatives are the main form of citizens' association, which has a significant share in many sectors of the economy. Unfortunately, this form does not develop properly in Poland. Cooperatives, as a form of society's association, have many advantages, the most important of which are: voluntaryity, the ability of initiative and cooperation. There is no doubt that by combining knowledge, skills, experience and the involvement of many people together, one can achieve more than one person at a time. For members of the cooperative, transparency of action, democratic voting rules, the inviolable right to decide how to manage their assets is very important. The amended law should therefore protect and protect the interests of citizens associated with housing cooperatives in the best possible way. The members of cooperatives and associations of cooperatives have for many years pointed out that their rights arising from membership of cooperatives have been violated, that the Housing Cooperatives Act does not provide them with basic mechanisms enabling them to have a real impact on the management of the cooperative's assets, which is also their property, and that, moreover, law enforcement authorities and judicial authorities which should uphold the rights violated do not fulfil their functions and do not guarantee the rule of law. I would like to remind you that Kukiz15, since the beginning of its term of office, has highlighted the need to amend the housing cooperative rules. During the last year, I have had discussions with people who have been victimized by the activities of cooperative boards, and a picture of the numerous irregularities that occur in housing cooperatives. Over the years, politicians, seeing the pathology of cooperatives and the specific creation of a state in the country, shrugged their shoulders and did nothing to correct this situation. This problem concerns a very large part of Poles and cannot continue to be marginalized. A few months ago, Members of the Kukiz Club submitted a draft law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act, which was created in cooperation with members of the cooperative for years fighting for the rights of the co-operatives and was consulted with them at every stage of their development. It is the co-operatives who have experienced the effects of irregularities in the functioning of housing cooperatives that have proposed a way of eliminating them. The solutions proposed in the government's draft amendments that implement the Constitutional Court's rulings are of course very important because we cannot maintain a legal position that is not in accordance with the Constitution. However, for the same reason, it is important to adopt the solutions proposed in the project of the Kukiz club15, because they are an expression of the will of the citizens, that is, the sovereign, before whom I and the state are responsible. I therefore request that the Government draft law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act and some other laws be submitted to the Infrastructure Committee for further work in order to supplement the proposed provisions on articles notified by the sovereign and included in the draft Kukiz club15. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u485	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act and some other laws included in print no. 1624. High Izbo! The draft law submitted by the government contains a number of amendments to the existing legislation. First of all, these are, of course, changes in the rules to bring them into line with the judgments of the Constitutional Court, unfortunately also in those who have already lost their power, which is the obvious result of government negligence. However, in addition to the changes resulting from the Court's judgments, the submission contains proposals for other amendments, which I will talk about in a subsequent manner. Ladies and gentlemen, the first group of provisions concerns the implementation of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. These are changes concerning, among others, restrictions on the catalogue of entities which may have the status of members of housing cooperatives to persons who have rights to premises, solutions relating to the loss of membership by entities which are not linked to the cooperative by any legal hub, new regulations on the rules for the return of the housing contribution and the rules for the payment of the housing contribution. In addition, the Act implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 5 February 2015, in which it recognised, inter alia, that the cooperative could not impose additional requirements on the applicant for membership of the person who acquired the premises and make it conditional on the effectiveness of acquiring a separate ownership of the premises from accepting the purchaser as a member of the housing cooperative. It seems like it's important that I say the records. The project also regulates the conditions for the acquisition of the former so-called. housing and the obligation of housing cooperatives to settle with the community within a specified period of the renovation fund and other expenditure on the renovation of the property concerned. These are also the records that were expected by the communities. It is worth noting that, in view of the aforementioned judgments of the Constitutional Court, these amendments are absolutely necessary. In addition to the amendments resulting from the judgments, the submission also includes a second group of amendments. They are some government response to the problems of co-operatives, housing communities and relate to the implementation of the National Housing Programme. Thus, the proposed amendments include those concerning the modification of the date after which the property, where the ownership of all premises has been isolated, applies the provisions of the Property Act of the premises. The government has proposed a rigid period of 3 months, and the owners could also decide on the application of the Article within that period. 27 Act on housing cooperatives, i.e. de facto entrust the management of the cooperative. Another proposal to address the expectations of housing cooperatives is the proposal of the provisions contained in the article. 2 projects. The planned amendment of the provisions of the Article. 831 The Civil Procedure Code exempts from enforcement against housing cooperatives media charges - such as electricity, water, gas, etc. - brought by persons living in the resources of a housing cooperative. Today, these fees are subject to enforcement, resulting in a backlog of payments to the media providers. This proposal requires further work, but it is undisputed that de facto the cost of not paying these media by the inhabitants is borne by honest members of the cooperative. The project also proposes to exclude persons performing functions on the boards of housing cooperatives, the main accounting cooperatives, counsellors, lawyers, procurators and Liquidators from carrying out the vetting of housing cooperative activities. On the one hand, it is easy to define a catalogue of situations against which the government wants to protect its co-operatives, but on the other hand, the persons I have mentioned have current knowledge and experience in the field of cooperatives, i.e. de facto the best qualifications to assess whether cooperatives operate legally. Perhaps - and this will be the direction of the changes proposed by the Modern - an optional solution must be introduced and the decision left, for example. to supervisory councils or even general meetings. The last amendment I would like to mention concerns the scope of the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction's powers towards housing cooperatives. The government proposes to equip the Minister with an instrument of supervision over the activities of housing cooperatives. This, of course, can be seen as a kind of vote of distrust to the Minister of Justice or to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, because they should react, in principle their services should respond to violations of the law in housing cooperatives. Well, that's not what's going on, we know that there are cases, although it's an incident on the cooperative scale, [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, the question here - at the end - is how much will be costed by the vetting of housing cooperatives related to the invented allegations. This is a very serious problem. And with that question at this moment, I'll leave you to it...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u486	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u487	...hoping for a real discussion on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u488	Now I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski from the Polish Party...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u489	On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern proposal to hand over the project... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...for further work in the Committee on Infrastructure. [[Applause]] Please, sir, let's keep time, okay? Everyone has the same amount of time. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u490	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position and comments of the club of the Polish People's Party regarding the submitted government bill amending the law on housing cooperatives, according to print no. 1624. This is a good thing, and it seems natural - that is how I perceive it and perceive it - that the project submitted primarily in the first part is designed and implemented in the statutory provisions of decisions and recommendations of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is in our opinion that this is normal and good practice. In addition, the introduction of these changes and the revision of the rules will probably remove some barriers, particularly as regards the construction of new housing by housing cooperatives, which will also result in the inclusion in the whole of housing measures, which remain very important. We can also talk about certain priorities regarding housing or housing by families, newly established families, which will probably translate not only into conditions for the growth of a new generation, but also into what is very important in our country, the phenomenon of demography. The proposed solutions will allow for the regulation of property matters relating to housing available to cooperatives. Rules for the return of the housing contribution have also been laid down. The draft proposes provisions that govern the principle of membership. The proposed provisions also address the issue of the statutory functioning of cooperative bodies, which we consider appropriate, because there were many comments, many situations and events which not only spoiled the atmosphere but reflected their consequences on the members of the cooperative. It would seem that the regulations that will be put in place should be satisfactory, and since this is a government project, we can presume that it has passed the whole way of consultation. Well, I do not hide that some doubts are raised - maybe it is vague, maybe it will come out in the course of further work on the project - the question of the minister's supervision of cooperatives, and we ask ourselves how far-reaching supervision. Since our club is in favour of transferring the project to further work and explaining these doubts, I would like to express my hope that further work at the meeting of the committee will also be able to be attended by representatives of the Association of Auditors of Housing Cooperatives of the Republic of Poland, because the position given by them differs slightly - and can be said: far - from the provisions contained in the explanatory memorandum. I think it's also worth considering the opinion of the Institute of Economic Law, because this too exists, and everything for creation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The best bill ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u491	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act and some other laws. The proposed law aims primarily at adapting the provisions of the Act of 15 December 2000 on housing cooperatives and certain other laws to the three judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal: judgment of 14 February 2012, sygn. Act P 17/10, declaring the non-compliance of Article. 48 (1) (a) 1 Act on housing cooperatives with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, judgment of 27 June 2013, sygn. Act K 36/12 declaring non-compliance with Article. 8 point 3 of the Housing Cooperatives Act with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the judgment of 5 February 2015, sygn. Act K 60/13, stating that Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 and 3 of the Housing Cooperatives Act is incompatible with the Constitution and Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 6 the Housing Cooperatives Act is incompatible with the Constitution as well as Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act on Housing Cooperatives and Art. 26 § 2 of the Cooperative Law are also incompatible with the Constitution, in so far as the laws recognised by the Constitutional Tribunal are incompatible with the Constitution: grant tenants a claim for the transfer of ownership of a cooperative dwelling which, prior to the unpaid acquisition by a housing cooperative, was the residence of a public undertaking, a public legal person or a public organizational unit, linked solely to the obligation to repay the debts of benefits arising from the lease agreement, authorise a housing cooperative to settle in the statutes the settlement rules for the repayment of the housing contribution, which is the equivalent of the cooperative tenant's right to the establishment, where the residential establishment itself is not subject to sale by tender, allow membership in the cooperative housing cooperative of entities which do not have the right to a cooperative tenant's place, the registered owner's right to aplace , the right of separate ownership of the premises or the expetatification of a separate ownership of thepremises , require the creation of membership in the cooperative from thecooperative 's owner of the property right to which the cooperative tenants are not entitled to the property of a naturalpartnership , to establish the right of the property of a subsidiary in which they are subject of a separate partnership to a naturalpartnership. The judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be final. Therefore, Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle accept the proposals made in this regard. The second extremely important objective of the bill is to eliminate barriers to cooperative tenant rights under the National Housing Programme, which will increase the ability of cooperatives to implement new housing investments in the form of the construction of apartments later made available on the basis of the cooperative tenant's right to housing. This will allow the development of cooperative housing, which has almost disappeared in recent years. Cooperatives have turned de facto into developers. The draft law introduces an extremely important provision that, in the case of new contracts for the construction of premises concluded after the entry into force of the proposed law between the cooperative and the member applying for the establishment of a cooperative tenant right to a premises or contracts for the establishment of a cooperative tenant right to a dwelling, a time limit will be indicated after which the member of the cooperative will be entitled to a claim for the conclusion of a contract for the transfer of ownership of the premises under the rules laid down in the Housing Cooperatives Act. The proposed law also introduces long-awaited provisions modifying the date after which the housing community will be established in the event of the separation of the property of the last premises in a specific building or in buildings located within a given property, governing the settlement of the repair fund with the established housing community and excluding from enforcement against the housing cooperative the media fee paid by persons residing in the cooperative's resources. During the broad public consultation on the proposed amendment, 71 comments were submitted, of which the most important issues were taken into account in the draft law submitted. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u493	Thank you. Janusz Sanocki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Cooperatives this is a huge problem, because it is like a fossil from the previous era, huge privileges, huge business there, virtually irreplaceable management, these authorities, supervisory boards, etc., composed of officials and actually parasitism. In my town, in Nysa, I've had this experience. I helped to emancipate part of the property - a building for the housing community, break away from the cooperative, because they could already function as a housing community, and immediately they arrived money, immediately. After a year, they came to me, thanking me. The key moment here was that you can already separate the premises, acquire them in full ownership. The law should make it easier, easier. However, this project unfortunately sucks in this respect, please, because it provides for the transformation into a community, only when all the premises are separated. This is an absolutely fatal solution, this is a solution that actually concretes the current state of things. I'm asking for a change in this. Because there is a project of the Kukiz club, a group of Members, which I also signed, Mr Sachaiko is a representative. This project provides for 50% Although I think it's too much, too. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, the key issue is housing communities, so that these cooperatives can be managed today simply by means of a rational economy through the formation of communities. And it's the bill that's supposed to do it. I hope that this will be changed, because in this shape it is unacceptable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u495	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After our previous term of office, we have more than 45 judgments left by the Constitutional Tribunal to implement. This bill is one of those cases. It is important to organise property rights in the area of housing. The residents of the factory blocks of Huta Warszawa, who bought their apartments from the workplace, were, as it is commonly said, then sold to a housing cooperative, which they had to contribute to, even though the apartment was owned by them. I would like to ask: Under the new law, will such a situation no longer be possible? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u497	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u498	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! According to the draft article. 48 (1) (a) 1 Act on Housing Cooperatives at the written request of the tenant of the cooperative dwelling which was before the so-called housing cooperative took over by the so-called housing cooperative. the cooperative's registered office enters into a contract with him to transfer ownership of the premises after he has made, inter alia, his residence. the payment of the costs incurred by the cooperative in respect of expenditure necessary for the maintenance of the building in which the premises are located and increasing the value of the building in which the premises are occupied, in proportion to the usable area of the premises where the cooperative purchased the building free of charge. And the question, Minister. Is the proposed wording of the Article. 48 (1) (a) 1 of the Housing Cooperatives Act is in line with the Constitution when the Constitutional Tribunal, in its judgment of 15 July 2009, found that the previous Article was incompatible with the Constitution. 48 (1) (a) The 3th Housing Cooperatives Act, which made it dependent on the tenant's ability to acquire the so-called housing cooperatives. the establishment, taken over free of charge by the housing cooperative, from the payment by the tenant of the costs incurred by the cooperative by means of the necessary expenditure for the maintenance of the building in which the same premises are located? And question two. Is the proposed wording of this article in line with the Constitution to the extent that the same provision makes it dependent on the tenant's ability to acquire the so-called one. the establishment, which was taken over free of charge by the housing cooperative, from the payment by the tenant of the costs incurred by the cooperative by way of the investments made [[♪ The bell ♪]] useful, where the existing tenant of the premises could not have had an impact on the type and extent of these useful expenditures made by the cooperative on the building? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u499	Thank you very much. Mr Margaret Płępek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The initial assumptions of the amendments were that one representative could represent a larger number of members at the general meeting. I am glad that this record has disappeared because there has already been abuse in the case of one member's representation by a proxy. The draft amendment also introduces rules for the redemption of old factory apartments acquired free of charge by the cooperative. As a result of the lack of legislation, cooperatives are currently refusing to buy out to tenants. They go to the courts, and the courts, contrary to the intentions of the Constitutional Tribunal, order free conversions. Are the authors of the project familiar with the number of such cases over the last 10 years? I wanted to ask one more question: Does the new law on housing cooperatives guarantee participation in the cooperative's assets of every member of the cooperative? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u501	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u502	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests at the gallery! They report to my co-counsel office complaining about nepotism. They tell me that family members are employed in their cooperatives, which is very disturbing. My husband's on the board, my wife's on the board of directors, and the next term is the other way around. Do you not think that such control and management are unethical? There's even more life, as I know, and the numbers in every cooperative, as people tell us here, write to us, call us. There's an election, name cards are ready to pick one. But on the one hand, there is also one plus that housing cooperatives are Polish assets. We know how foreign corporations or private individuals buy out here, so that at least this, they persist. I think we need to take care of this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u503	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u504	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In your explanatory memorandum to the law, which is otherwise necessary, which needs to be worked on, you have made such a statement that it is necessary for the Minister to control the cooperative. It seems to me that manual control and control by the Minister of any area of social life should not take place in a democratic state, but rather well-prepared, well-functioning and well-executed law would definitely prevent the need for specific personal supervision. Because it's always associated with certain suspicions, let's say wide. And I'd like to know what control the Minister was thinking. Second thing, that's a pretty detailed question. In the explanatory memorandum, we have information that the Presidents cannot, of course, be auditors, should not carry out audits as auditors in cooperatives. Of course, in his own cooperative. Does this apply only to the presidents active at a given time, or is it that the function of the President excludes such a person from control forever, i.e. when it ceases to function on the board of directors? If this is solely and specifically related to the performance of the function of President or member of the Management Board, then of course it is clear. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u505	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u506	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The amount of charges associated with cooperative housing is very often 3 and 4-fold higher than that borne by the residents of the premises which are subject to the Property Act. That is what Mr Sanocki spoke about. And now: this is my great surprise, because it should be the other way around, normally it should be the other way around for at least two reasons. A cooperative is a larger scale, a larger scale makes the unit cost smaller. Cooperatives often have plenty of premises for rent - various types of pavilions, other service premises. Again: this should significantly reduce the costs of the cooperative, and unfortunately this is many times higher. And now please note: this is the state of affairs that causes cooperatives to actually want to escape cooperative law in order to be subject to the property law of the premises. Question: "What kind of solution do you see in the Minister's view, or exactly what mechanisms did the Minister have in the bill, which will result in several times the amount of the fee being reduced?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u507	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u508	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to thank you very much for a very good bill, which was very much expected by Polish citizens. I am very pleased that the novel of the Housing Cooperatives Act has become a reality and that it will enable the regulation to be brought into order for the benefit of citizens after so many years and after many judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Minister, will the provisions of the Act make it easier for tenants to buy apartments for property and will the person who decides to buy cooperative housing in the future be able to acquire property rights, i.e. to become the full owner of this apartment? Minister, will a large number of apartments be created in Poland thanks to the National Housing Programme, and what scale will it be? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u509	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u510	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, here's what I'm gonna say. We all know for a long time that the Housing Cooperatives Act does not work, hence its change, but this change is wrong, Minister, although perhaps not entirely. I don't understand why you don't want to proceed with the print bill 1533, which has been prepared by the citizens. Well, here's what I'm gonna say. This bill, which you are proposing, because I have looked at it, is consulted by this administrative cap, that is, all the central relationships in different forms. For the good of the case, we keep leaving this administration behind. On the other hand, the law drawn up in broad consultations, in which many Members have participated, with citizens, members of the cooperative will be examined in the Committee on Infrastructure tomorrow. And the question is simple. Why do you not want to combine these two laws or to process them in parallel so that you can choose from them what is important and what is good? What's in the way? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u511	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u512	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! By changing the article. 93a Cooperative law, you claim the Minister's right to request information in the event of suspicion of unlawful action. This is one of the first steps towards the liquidation of cooperatives. For the time being, it is very delicate, and the consequences will certainly be in the next steps, as in the case of courts - one judge in 10,000. He's going to commit some kind of misdemeanor, which, of course, must be subjugated by the ministers' courts. It's probably gonna happen here, too. However, there is also a lie in this amendment of the article, because in § 4 there is a provision that the Minister may apply for the examination of the housing cooperative concerned. It may apply and at the same time § 5 says that this illustration shall be initiated within 30 days of receipt of the application. This isn't a motion, Minister, it's just a warrant, it's a statutory court order. In fact, I do not have any further activity here, because it is not said what the Minister is going to do in the event of a protocol for illustrative activities if, of course, this protocol contains some irregularities. There's this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I say again, the first step towards the liquidation of cooperatives in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u513	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u514	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question, however, about these costs relating to extracurricular vetting. Well, we know that the cost of judging depends on how determined the supervisory board is, vary from 10,000. to tens of thousands of zlotys. Have you tried to estimate the size of the government that is going to be affected by the artifacts that will be commissioned by the Minister? Because it is very often that the members of the cooperative do not fit in the sense that there is a discussion between one and the other member group, there are different opinions. In such large communities, this is very often the case. So, did you estimate, try to estimate what the costs of vetting would be? I wanted to address one more aspect here. Some fellow Members ask such naive questions why housing communities have lower operating costs than housing cooperatives. Firstly, there is a mistake in the thesis itself, because it is not always the case that the housing community has lower costs. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, housing cooperatives are small towns that maintain hectares on their territory and maintain infrastructure. Separate communities, which have a piece of lawn, a piece of parking, think only of themselves, while cooperatives are large, complex organisms [[♪ The bell ♪]] Social. Please consider this element in your speeches. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u515	Thank you. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 93a § 2: In the event of a suspected infringement by the housing cooperative, the Minister may apply to the relevant audit relationship in which the cooperative is affiliated or to the National Cooperative Council with a request for an examination. Mirror shall be carried out at the expense of the cooperative. It is known that housing cooperatives are often associated with regional audit unions. Shouldn't an independent body carry out the vetting in order for such activities to be effective? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u517	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that the changes were generally accepted positively, of course with various reservations. There was no motion to reject the proposal, so I think we will have the opportunity to discuss some of the solutions you are proposing in the committee. I will refer to individual questions or doubts. Mrs Młyńczak asked why there are four years for the founders to have their right to a place. A deadline should have been accepted. If we took three years, it would be a question of why three years, if we took five years, why five years. I think four years is a long enough time to figure that out. The point is that this founder should be bound by this relationship in connection with the ownership of the premises, not just by the fact that he founded the cooperative. We eliminate this condition, that there are people who do not own the premises and are members of the cooperative, as well as that there are such fictitious members, which was also commonly used in many cooperatives. I'm not saying it's common. Maybe I overreacted. The question of suspected infringement or infringement has also been raised by ladies and gentlemen on several occasions here. As there were doubts, the minister was to determine whether there was a breach, which is quite difficult - we proposed that the suspicion should allow the examination to be carried out. I will address further issues, costs and so on. With regard to Mr Suchon's statement, there was also a question of the abuse of illustriousness. It is specified that these mirrors cannot be carried out more than once a year, so it is also limited that these mirrors should not be Too much. Mr Kotowski said that there was indeed a broad consultation. Regarding supervision in the Ministry, we did not hear any opposition - as regards the so-called. increased supervision, and I will argue with that in a moment - from the National Cooperative Council. The Institute of Economic Law, which the Member has referred to, has also not submitted any negative opinion on our proposals. On the other hand, the Institute submitted a very negative opinion as regards the project of the Kukiz club15, print No 1533. Mr Gaina stressed that there were 75 comments during the consultation. Most of them have been taken into account. There was no consultation. only and only, as it was defined, with the cap or there with those national associations of co-operatives, but it was a very broad consultation also with groups and associations of tenants and persons who are members of the cooperative. Mr Sanocki. We're not making any changes as far as we're concerned. These rules of separation are the same as before. As far as the questions of individual Members are concerned, Mrs Tomaszewska asked a question about factory housing. At the moment we introduce this possibility, the purchase of former factory apartments will be possible. Here too, as a result of the judgment of the Court, it is clear that the former tenant cannot be charged with any additional costs other than those necessary and useful. This was suggested in the ruling of the Constitutional Court, and this is the solution we propose. Mrs Płępek, also the question about factory housing. Do we know any data? We do not carry out such research, there have been no research here, what were the judgments in the field of factory housing. We have limited ourselves to introducing a solution, which is the consequence of a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal. Mr Rometsky said that there is enormous nepotism in cooperatives. Well, the legal solution would be rather difficult to eliminate nepotism. It is only a matter of cooperative members - if they are dissatisfied with it, they should react. This is a separate thing, which should also be said, that unfortunately, the involvement of cooperative members in the activities of housing cooperatives is very, very low. The attendance at general assemblies reaches 1%. Of course, the bigger the cooperative, the bigger the problem. In smaller cooperatives - I think that you can confirm that too - or the problems that you have here. often says, there is no, or they are very insignificant. However, the larger the cooperative, the more these problems are getting. There are no easy solutions. I was wondering how to do it myself. On the other hand, when it comes to judicial decisions which at the moment have either been or are being prosecuted, that is, not a judgment, but judicial cases concerning the division of cooperatives - because there are cooperatives where the division takes place - it is so difficult to carry out that judicial cases last after 10 years. Ten years of court proceedings are ongoing, even as a result of the consent of the co-operatives to make a division, to adopt appropriate resolutions that separate cooperatives are being separated. The division of the estate itself is so difficult that court cases last for many, many years. So that it is practically impossible to solve this with a single rule of law. Mrs Gądek also talks about control. Here, however, there is a contradiction in what you are saying. Some say you have to interfere more with the cooperatives, that things are bad there. Well, in a situation where we want a little... Really, ladies and gentlemen, this increase in control by the ministry is very, very insignificant. One thing is: to eliminate this issue, that we are going to do an unwarranted mirroring, we have the right to request documents. So far, we've only relied on explanations. Often these explanations were not sufficient, there was a decision to carry out the vetting, and then it may have turned out that this vetting was really unnecessary. If there are documents, the assessment of the legal or factual situation that exists in a given cooperative will be more accurate and the question of possible referral of a request for mirrors will be more reasonable. And more thoughtful and reliable. Therefore, there is no suspicion that the illustrations will be abused. Of course, it is impossible to determine what the costs of vetting can be, because no one is able to determine how many of these vettings can be carried out. As for the illustration, as I said, we introduce a limitation that they cannot be more often than once a year, because the applications for the vetting of members of the cooperative often affect several, several times a year. If we were to react this way to everyone, these cooperatives would actually be, so to speak, extremely... often strained would be their administrative potential when it comes to handling the vetting itself, but also financial. Let me disagree with Mr Sachajka, who has made it clear that the management costs in cooperatives are higher than in housing communities. Statistics clearly indicate otherwise. We are talking about global statistics, on a country-wide scale, where management costs in cooperatives are lower than in communities. On the other hand, of course, individually... I don't think you... I don't remember which one anymore. In any case, of course, there are cases where these costs are higher. But they're the most common. Only because simply the economy in cooperatives is mismanaged, that the cooperative is mismanaged. Where cooperatives are well managed, those costs are lower than in communities. Therefore, there were a lot of requests to the Ministry - and they came from consultations with them - so that it would not be necessary to automatically exclude the board of cooperatives if there was a community. Because these owners, even though there is a separation in its entirety, often want to stay in a cooperative to manage the cooperative. It wasn't a possibility, we're giving it. If the majority so decides, they can continue to be managed by the cooperative. It is difficult for them to decide that if these costs are higher, they will not adopt this resolution. It's just an opportunity you give to the co-cooperatives, and if they don't want to, they won't do it. Mr Wróblewski - we are restoring the purchase of premises and regulating the settlement of the cost of works flats. As for Mr Jachnik, when it comes to joint investigation, this is not the competence of the government. This is the Sejm's competence, the Sejm's competence. This is the way it's been established, and we're going to proceed in this formula that's been adopted. The government is involved in this under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I would absolutely disagree with Mr Lassota's statement that the proposed changes are aimed at the liquidation of cooperatives. I would like to remind you that, for eight years earlier, you... [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] Excuse me? [[Game in the O.R.]] No, I'm not saying eight years, just that you were going for it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] to take out cooperatives and bring in housing communities. [[No!]] You remember the envoy that represented your group, which was going to do so consistently. So please don't accuse us of that. We are in favour of housing cooperatives, while we are opposed to pathology which function in these cooperatives, and we do not need to be persuaded about that. I myself repeatedly submit notices to the prosecutor's office if I am convinced that such a notification must be made if there are irregularities. Other ministries are doing it, too, and it's not the doing of other ministries here, it's the fulfilling of the duties that the Minister is under if he takes such messages. And of course - here I address Mr Suchon - there are no so-called costs. There's no extracurricular vetting. There are illustrations which are provided for by the law, we introduce a limitation that they should not be more often than once a year, so it should eliminate these nuisances, the possible higher costs. Mr Gonciusz also talked about this, so that I think that these matters have been clarified. Thank you once again, ladies and gentlemen, for a thorough and thorough analysis of the project. I think that during the procession in the Sejm we will be able to explain some more to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u519	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, as corrected, right? One minute to corrigendum. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u520	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In answer to my questions, the Minister did not actually answer this question, because I asked what mechanisms the Minister put in place to make such situations that the costs of the cooperative's operation, the costs, the charges associated with the ownership of the cooperative's housing are higher... Although in the second part the Minister was against, i.e. he refused, and yet he agreed, because he said that because the management is bad, these costs are higher or they can be higher. And that is why there is my request: What can I do to make sure that doesn't happen? In your project, in a project that is currently being processed, this transformation is virtually impossible, because it is 100% So it doesn't actually happen that 100% The properties were in the property. So this is where we need to work, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the co-operatives know that the locals can get away from them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u521	Thank you. And Mr Sanocki, as corrected. You're welcome. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u522	Minister! I'll bet you my salary and yours that the management costs in the communities are lower, that you gave some false data. I don't know who misled you. I have a great deal of experience, and I'm happy to share it for free, but really, what you're saying is that the foundation of this bill, which is based on this image of the world, is not true. The Community is the best form of management, because people care about their own and costs everywhere... I know a few hundred communities, and I know of the transition from cooperative to community. I'll bet, like I said. If you can keep it up, you're welcome. But you mustn't block it, because when it comes to this statutory record, where you're actually blocking the possibility of separating the community - don't tell me, because I know what it looks like - you're just blocking it, because 100% They're never gonna get to that separation point. Besides, I do not know if this is directly contrary to the Civil Code, which says that if there is ownership separation of a single premises, then the housing community already arises. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that I serve mine, so to speak, with experience.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u523	Thank you. Minister? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, in order not to mislead Members, please do not mislead the public, [[Applause]] Because, of course, we can find a case like this. Here the plant may be difficult, because I can find a case that the cooperative will have lower costs than the community, and you will find a case that the community will have lower costs than the cooperative. So we're gonna find both of these cases. [[I'm waiting for the data.]] If you wish, I will present such cases. Of course, it is not possible to decree the regulation of good management of the cooperative. It's just impossible. If you find such a provision, please introduce it to me. I'm ready to bring it in if we can find a way to manage the cooperative well. As I said, the costs are due to poor management, and that is only, and only the issue of cooperative members who should respond to this. If such provisions are, please present them to me, I would be happy to use them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u525	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act and certain other laws, contained in print No. 1624, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the consideration of the citizens' request to put the national reform of the education system under a referendum (Print No 1571). Before I ask the group's representative to speak, I would like to welcome you very cordially with a very large number of people. today's audience in the audience, I believe, both supporters of reform and its opponents. We would like to welcome you all very warmly. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of the representative of a group of citizens of Mr Sławomir Broniar in order to provide a justification for the request for a referendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u526	Mr. Marshal! Before I speak, I would like to ask you as Marshal of the Sejm to accept the request of the referenda committee and, however, allow Mrs Dorota Łoboda to speak. [[Applause]] She is a deputy attorney, but I think there are no formal obstacles to eliminating a mother, a parent, a person who has put a lot of effort into presenting this proposal. Hence my personal request to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u527	Thank you very much for this personal request, but, Mr. Agent, since I've already asked you to speak, please continue. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[That's very kind of you.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u528	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues, including those who support reform! I stand before you, representing 910,000. the citizen and the citizens who signed the referendum request, also on behalf of Mrs Łobody, who was to present this proposal on behalf of the referenda committee. [[Applause]] For this huge contribution, both in collecting signatures and in preparing this speech, thank you very much. Our motion has been submitted to the hands of Marshal Kuchciński. Exactly two months ago. If he were immediately under Parliament, as the Marshal declared, a referendum would be possible in June, not a discussion of the proposal. Unfortunately, everything has been done to delay the inclusion of the proposal on the agenda. Until yesterday - in fact until this morning - we heard that at this meeting it would not be possible to examine our proposal. About an hour today. Ten came to our attention that in a few hours we were due to report to the Sejm. This is how these nine hundred and a few thousand citizens have been treated, and this is how we have been dealt with in order to give Parliament the decision on the request for a referendum. The question is, do we deserve to be treated like this, on a clogged basis, because it fell off the agenda. Did this happen because you wanted to prevent all interested parties from attending the meeting? Is it because you're afraid of the vision of teachers, parents who will look at us from this Seym Gallery as well? At the last minute, they found out about this meeting, they came, and I thank them very much again. Or, in fear of failure, you will reject the motion for a referendum, knowing that the latest polls show that 60% Poles and Poles do not support Anna Zalewska's reform, and 62% believes that a referendum should be held? [[Applause]] Why did you lose your support for changes in education since two years ago the reform plans supported more than 70% Poles and Poles? We know that changes in education are necessary, on this subject no one who is watching the Polish educational sphere has a different opinion, as we all agree on this, so why does so many citizens and citizens of our country reject the reform plans proposed by Minister Anna Zalewska? Why? Because the implementation of this reform has been accompanied by lies, lies repeated so far, chaos, confusion, and at the same time misleading everyone. But it's not like a lie a hundred times repeated will become true. Poles and Poles signed under the request for a school referendum do not accept the mode and pace of the changes which are difficult to even call reform. We have heard such statements by collecting signatures on the streets of our cities, also from people who generally support the liquidation of secondary schools, but who in no way accept the pace and scope of the changes that are being made, which are difficult to call reform. Let me say in a few sentences - a few sentences, please treat with a wink of eye - all these lies, attempts to counterfeit or even lies that were repeated many times at the time of implementation, and the whole pseudo consultation that was conducted with the citizens of our country at the time of the beginning of the discussion on the scope of change on 27 June. First lie: the reform was consulted. Minister Anna Zalewska refused parents and teachers to actually participate in the consultation. At the beginning of 2016, she launched the so-called. debates parents - pupils - teachers in which both parents and students performed only in the name of the event. The Foundation for Education refused to share reports from these debates. The Ministry consulted the change in education so openly that it was prepared to defend the confidentiality of these findings even in the Supreme Administrative Court. This is the broad consultation of the change in education. The standard is - this is a quote - to conduct public consultations in an open and accessible way for everyone concerned. This is a quote from the Ministry of National Education and at the same time a quote from the seven principles of public consultation adopted in 2012. We regret that before the liquidation of junior high schools, the conviction of thousands of young people to apply for high school seats in a double vintage, before crowding up the little ones in kindergartens created in junior high schools, the Ministry of National Education did not apply even one of the seven principles of consultation. We use the link, these rules are still available on the website of the resort. The Ministry, after secretising the panel of experts, tried to organize the so-called. in-depth consultation. However, when won by the Federation of Educational Initiatives, the competition was cancelled, and the one announced again won by one vote of the Foundation, the Ombudsman of Parents' Rights. You probably do not know, but an in-depth consultation of changes to the education law conducted by the Ministry of National Education and the aforementioned. The foundation's just starting. Yeah, I didn't miss out. The joint project is called.From diagnosis to billing. On the website of the project you can read that the Ministry of National Education and the Foundation, the Ombudsman of Parents' Rights, intend, quote: together to create recommendations for the Law on Education, so that the school is not only a place of high quality education, well managed and controlled, but also a place of cooperation with parents, friendly and safe for all students. End of quote. The Ministry of National Education is now starting to consult on the changes to the Education Act, which was adopted in December. Ladies and gentlemen, this is good news because the resort intends to draft a new education bill - we assume - so we believe deeply that the campaign's announcement of listening to the voice of citizens will result in voting for a referendum, since the Ministry of National Education is ready for a new project. However, we would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Marshal is composed of the initiative of the Polish Teachers' Union and signed by the Members of the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party and the Modern bill which postpones the implementation of the proposed changes to September 2018, so that we can have a draft of the Ministry of National Education - the one that will be widely consulted with the public for about PLN 2 million - submit to a substantive, thorough public debate, and at the same time we have time to organise a referendum. The second lie: children won't know the difference. You often ask where you were when the Platform sent six-year-olds to school. And I'm asking you where you are today. Did you care about your children when they were six years old, where's your concern now? They're the same kids, only a few years older. You cared about the fate of six-year-olds, and you didn't care about teenagers? You've ruined their dreams, their plans, you've disturbed their sense of security and their trust in the state, you've given them a year of uncertainty, and they're not gonna get any better. Do you realize how this affects young people's psyche, their psyche and their motivation to learn? To the difficulty of growing older, sometimes forming attitudes and seeking authority, you have added uncertainty and fear. Before you started talking about the pathology and aggression of teenagers, did you even think for a moment about how a mature young person feels when he hears such voices from adults, including the Minister of National Education? How can you speak such a language about children? The same children you leaned down on a few years ago with concern. You haven't seen it, and you don't want to see it now. Without blinking your eyes, you've sacrificed a few years, just to get through the changes as quickly as possible. Why don't you care about their fate now? Or because they're not voters? They'll be voters. Do parents have a choice only for six-year-olds? Are only politicians supposed to decide about older children? Who gave you that right? Polish children, Polish young people are wise, sensitive and open to the world young people. A few weeks ago, they showed it here in the Chamber of this Parliament. At school, they're the most important ones. Apparently, the ministry noticed this, organizing the debates of the student - the parent - the teacher, but the student, as I said, appeared there only in the name. Students and students had nothing to say about them. No one asked their opinion. Their plans and dreams were thrown into the trash, moved between schools like pawns with a ministerial commentary insulting their intelligence that they would not notice the implementation of the change. That's not true, Minister. Doesn't a talented sixth-grade artist realize that she can't go as she planned to go to art school, but she won't have art lessons in eighth grade either? Wouldn't a language-enabled 13-year-old with no chance of bilingual education, because his primary school doesn't create such a class, realize that he's being deprived of his opportunity to develop? Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about small, safe schools. Bravo, we want one too. But what do schools for a thousand students have to do with this vision? I myself had the opportunity to be vice principal of a school that had 2352 students, and I know what it was like to run this kind of school, and under what conditions these young people were educated, raised, despite the great effort of teachers. But these 1,000-person schools are created as a result of the reform. Do their students and students not notice the crowd in the locker room, in the common room? Do they not notice that they start lessons at hours. 7:00 A.M., like in Białęka? Or they end at an hour. 18? Do ministerial officials start work at hours. Seven? No. Do they have three minutes to eat dinner? Neither. Why, then, do you condemn these experiences of children in a heartless way? Will the children transferred to other buildings in the fourth grade not notice the difference? Wouldn't the 7th graders also notice the difference being transferred for 2 years to eliminated junior high schools? Wouldn't junior high students realize that their teacher is changing every now and then or is coming to this school, chasing their tongue out because he has to go to a completely different school in an hour to find a job? Don't you want to save them? Is it because they're not six years old and they're a dozen years old? It's the same kids, I'll say it again, just a few years older. Why didn't you ask them? Perhaps because if you asked, it would prove that the path you have chosen is not the right way. In 2016 Warsaw conducted a study among junior high school students. It turned out that 71% Junior high school says she likes her school. You don't ask the students, just in case. You do not take into account the fact that young people may have an opinion and have the right to speak. [[Applause]] Especially in matters that concern her, and that is certainly the case of education. The times when the children didn't have a voice are long gone. Polish children, as Janusz Korczak wanted, are ordinary, normal people, citizens and citizens of this country, only that they are children, younger, but they are people who have the full right to express their opinions as well. It seems that the lack of opportunity to speak in this debate will be remembered by you for many, many years. But this debate, in which they have been restricted by access to and the right to speak, is also a bad lesson in democracy for these young citizens of our country. A third lie is a modern software basis. You are boasting of modern software bases. It is only a pity that experts, teachers, scientists do not share your enthusiasm. Today we celebrate refugee day and may be wrong, but in the program basis there is no idea of refugee. The Polish Language Council on the basis of this subject said, quote: The presented draft programming basis is inconsistent, illogical, with numerous errors, also linguistic and terminology nature. It demonstrates the incompetence of the copyright team, especially in terms of subjective methodology and developmental psychology. Knowledge is preferred, and failing to adapt its scope to the cognitive possibilities of students will cause it to be absorbed passively and memoryally. There will be a return to encyclopedism, creative, thoughtful, critical use of knowledge beyond the reach of most students, and yet a critical view of the reality surrounding us is an important skill. The lack of critical thinking - as Frans Timmermans said - is a modern version of illiteracy and we are trying to teach it to children. In addition, the content of education, according to the Polish Language Council, is outdated, reflect the cultural and communication reality from 50 years ago. The lessons of Polish language will be removed from the reality in which the contemporary young man lives. They will be seen as a museum, which will have a negative impact on the motivational attitudes of the students. You will say what you always say, that it is only adjectives, that it is merely a statement that it is not true, but this opinion contains a number of substantive and very concrete comments to which you have not responded. Similar conclusions were drawn from the Council of the Faculty of Philology of the University of Gdansk, who believe that the programming basis of Polish language does not meet the teaching requirements, deviates from contemporary linguistic, literary, cultural, mediocre knowledge, and its implementation, I quote, threatens the collapse of reading, cultural marginalization of a large part of society. As I remember correctly, the youngest reading is the adventures of Santa Claus, which were created about 60 years ago. Children can stop reading - warned the Polish School Librarians' Teachers' Association after reading the list. A mystery such as this, not another design of the list of readings, tried to deal with the Łódź Center for Teachers' Excellence and Practical Training. In their opinion, a set of supplementary readings is mostly composed of books read in childhood by a generation of grandparents of pupils of classes IV and VI, i.e. creators of a new basis. These are often anachronistic texts that do not speak to a young man who will certainly not encourage reading, or rather will be deterred, because I do not imagine that someone, reading the description of Zbyszek's tights from Bogdaniec, would be able to feel a desire to explore a very interesting book or novel by Henryk Sienkiewicz. Today is a different time. Another reality was when we read the Crosses, another reality we have today. The Pedagogical Science Committee of the Polish Academy of Sciences commented on the basis of the programme for kindergarten: The proposed programme basis for preschool education is not a step forward in the Polish post-war tradition of such documents. It is not a good response to changes in scientific knowledge about the development of a pre-school child, its capabilities and needs. There is also no connection with European and global trends in pre-school education. It is therefore difficult to determine why it was introduced at all. It has all the shortcomings of the existing basis, adding to it absent mistakes and negligence. It is the replacement of a weak base by the proposal much, much worse. The Scientific Council of the Institute of Historical University of Warsaw criticized the separation of history and WOS. Giving up on the basis of the programme to take care of such a vital basis for society as involvement in civic activities, social sensitivity, tolerance for others or opposition to discrimination. The statement states that there is a fundamental doubt about the timetable for the work on the new programming basis. We are concerned about the fact that the public consultation is conducted so late," stressed the historians from the University of Warsaw. They also pointed out that class VI students will start a 2-year repetition of what they learned in class VI from September and will not realize the expanded content from earlier periods, which are indicated in the new basis. The effect will be that they will not know by the end of the eighth grade, e.g. basic facts about reformation. Professor Łukasz Turski, following a detailed discussion of the basics of physics, comments: the fragments of the basics discussed show clearly that the authors of this document did not meet the task of preparing the basis of the programme, which would bring anything to the achievement of the objective which they set themselves in the materials justifying the reform, i.e. raising the level of education. Mathematicians from the Polish Mathematical Society believe that the design of the basics shows too much difference between what is to be learned in mathematics in classes I-III and what is to be learned in older classes. Early school levels are not used enough. It does not contain what is most important: the preparation of intuitions concerning concepts that will appear clearly in the older classes. The basis is poor in editorial terms, it is underdeveloped and in many cases not precise - we read in the opinion of the Polish Academy of Skills. Professor Barbara Woynarowska, pediatrician, specialist in school medicine and President of the Programme Council on The promotion of Health and Prevention of Child and Youth Problems, warned the Ministry of National Education that the programme basis could pose a threat to mental health, because in part for classes IV-VIII it is overloaded with too many detailed content, whose mastery will be difficult for an average student and can be a source of tension and stress. The Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools in Poland wondered what it was actually dealing with, because the basic design is only independent pieces, which are not connected by a common idea that sets the main direction of educational activities. Moreover, the authors of these studies, read in the opinion of the rectors, seem to continue in the hope that these pieces will form a coherent whole. You may have serious doubts as to whether this is going to happen. The Physics Teachers Association noted that in physics students often analyze the information presented in the form of graphs, while the mathematical basis lacks the development of this skill. According to specialists from the Polish Academy of Physics, the primary school includes knowledge at the level of the 18th century. No mention about atoms, elementary particles, nuclear forces or solid body physics - we read in an opinion prepared by the Polish Academy of Skills. Let us also see what Prime Minister Beata Szydło wrote about the new basis. If entrepreneurship is to be taught according to the MEN project, it is better that this subject does not exist at all - it summarizes the project by the Ministry of Development. The same Ministry, referring to representatives of the scientific community, pointed out to the Ministry of National Education that this material, the draft of the basis, does not fully take into account the recommendation concerning the design of the software basis of computer science formulated by the team, which, at the request of the Ministry of National Education, developed the design of this basis and transmitted the results of its work to the Ministry of National Education in December 2016. The Ministry of Development also did not accept lowering the level of teaching mathematics. According to the officials of the Ministry, the programming basis for maths in Classes VII and VIII does not cover all the content of the secondary school so far, as well as those of the primary school programme base prior to the introduction of secondary schools. We would like to draw attention to the need to take full account of the results of the team's work in the proposed regulation, which, at the request of the Ministry of National Education, developed a project on the basis of computer science programme - kindly draws attention to Mr Piotr Woźny, Deputy Minister of Digitalization. According to the Ministry of Sports and Tourism, physical education is lacking in the basis of programmed physical education. The element of health-promoting preparation in the framework of physical education is very important, but the basis for building awareness in this area must be the preparation of children's fitness - said Deputy Minister of Sport Jan Widera. In his opinion, the theory is not everything, and the basis should be so constructed that young people begin to move and not just be aware that they need to move. The programme basis for physical education should be based primarily on movement and not on awareness of its needs - stressed the Ministry of Sport. What's with all the criticism? It's just that you can't write the basics in two months. The state tried to prove otherwise. On 29 July, the Minister assured the trade unions that the basis would be ready by 15 August. At that time it seemed simply a physical impossibility. But let me repeat: a lie repeated 100 times does not become true. If you think the basics are excellent, why can't we get to know the authors? You have classified the list of people writing a new basis and refuse to give their names. Personal data... [[That's not true.]] ...employed by the Ministry of National Education of persons and, as stated in the refusal of access to information, the privacy of a natural person is more important to you than the right to know who is behind the key educational system of the document. Mrs Beata Szydło, colleagues from the government, Mrs Zalewska, criticized not only its basis, but also the whole so-called. reform. Lawyers from the Government Legislation Centre have pointed out to the Ministry of National Education that if something is already copied from other legal acts, it is necessary to do so skillfully. I quote: By way of example, Chapter 5, which, according to its title, concerns the organisation of education, education and care in schools and public institutions, contains regulations that are directly addressed to non-public schools and institutions, and even to those who do not operate under the education system, said the government lawyers. In particular, the project duplicates the flawed design of most statutory authorisations by providing a number of issues to be dealt with only in the implementing acts, without the provision of basic substantive solutions in the law in question - we read in the opinion. I repeat: in an opinion prepared by the Governmental Legislative Centre, not by the Polish Teachers' Union. It was the lawyers from the RCL who warned about the chaos threatening education after the implementation of the ideas of Minister Anna Zalewska. They decided to raise doubts about the possibility of maintaining practically all the implementing rules issued prior to the changes in the school system, which concern the types of schools in the school system so far and could not relate to new types of schools. The courts, according to the lawyers, will encounter the galimatias when it turns out that alongside the copied to the Law of Education, these original provisions of the Law on the system of education are also in force, as pointed out in correspondence with the Ministry of National Education, Mr Leszek Bosek, President of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the General Treasury. He signalled to the officials of the Ministry of National Education that, I quote: Leaving the law on the system of education in the legal system will make it more difficult to apply this new law, and the difficulties that result may be imposed on the application of the provisions in the scope of the proposed law and the law on the system of education. Why did President Bosek advise the Ministry of Education to decide which law has what to regulate? According to Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, the Ministry of National Education did not mention all the direct effects of the introduced regulation, including the effects on local self-government units. In other words, it has not been counted how much the reform will be paid by the municipalities and districts. We heard initially that the reform will cost nothing. Then there were new amounts, more and more millions of zlotys. The Ministry also did not check how many schools after the reform will not have rooms to accommodate all students, nor did it say how the reform would affect the family, citizens and households. Minister Kowalczyk also asked the Ministry of National Education for the most difficult thing for the Ministry - an indication of how the Ministry of National Education under the authority of Minister Anna Zalewska intends to check the effects of the reform, i.e. equalising educational opportunities and improving the quality of teaching. The fourth lie-- middle school didn't work out. By pushing this pseudoreform, you are convinced that you are guided by the will of your electorate, which gave you the right to win the election to make changes. If the voters voted that way, then you think they gave you permission to close down junior high. Really? One of the voters of the party's state, as he admitted, is Prof. Mirosław Handke, former Minister of Education, author of the previous reform. In a recent interview for Virtual Poland, he stated that although he voted in the elections for Law and Justice, he had, and I quote: to the end, hope that these junior high schools will not move. Professor Handke is particularly moved by the shortening of school duties from 9 to 8 years. In his view, you should answer for this decision. Here is a quote from the Minister's statement: Minister Anna Zalewska should appear before the Court of State - says Prof. Handke. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Stand, stand.]] The 9-year education system we have introduced is the standard in the world. We are very concerned that there will be a repeat of the situation before 1999, when a large part of the students did not study after graduate school. Secondary school raises educational aspirations of children and their parents - explains Prof. Handke. His words confirm his research. Since 2000, Poland has seen one of the biggest increases in the skills of 15-year-olds in PISA research. The biggest leap in the results of these studies was achieved after the first edition of PISA in 2000, which included students before the 1999 reform, i.e. high school students, technicians and vocational schools. The additional year of secondary education had a particularly positive impact on former vocational school pupils. This impact is sustainable and at present vocational school pupils aged 16, 17 have higher skills than pupils in these schools prior to the introduction of secondary education. Both Polish and international studies show that the achievements of Polish 15-year-olds are above the OECD average and the European Union average. In the natural sciences Poles took the tenth place in the 26 countries of the European Union that participated in the study, in the reading we took the fifth place, in mathematics - the eighth. In the European Union, only six countries achieved better results in natural sciences, and only the students of Finland, Ireland and Estonia achieved better results in reading. Poland is less affluent than most European countries, and Polish families have on average lower education and lower cultural resources. After taking into account socio-economic factors, Poland's performance in natural sciences shifts us from 10th to 4th place in the European Union. They show the high efficiency of Polish schools, Polish teachers who work in less favourable socio-economic conditions. Poland in terms of the number of talented pupils in natural sciences is the fourth force in the European Union. Our middle school students account for 7% the best students of the European Union. The high quality of education in Poland makes us top countries with more population in this respect, including countries such as Italy and Spain. Young Poles have skills higher than the European average. Poles aged 16 and 19 have reading skills with a much higher understanding than the European average, and in terms of mathematical skills are close to the average. Polish 15 - year - olds increasingly declare that they like to learn natural things. Poland and Ireland recorded the greatest increase in the rate of pleasure in expanding their knowledge from natural objects. At the same time, Polish students are less interested in specific issues in the field of natural sciences. Thanks to a uniform program in secondary school in Poland there are no differences in access to teaching these natural subjects. In many countries, pupils who are weaker and from less educated families have less lessons and do not learn natural subjects at all. With your decisions you sentence future generations of Poles to worse knowledge, to worse work, and thus to lower wages. Labour market research shows that students who have had the chance to attend middle school, with an average of 2% to 3% higher probability of finding employment and earning by 3 more than people who have only spent 8 years in primary school. Anna Zalewska was behind the idea, among others. Dr. Andrzej Wasko, representative of President Andrzej Duda. In an interview with the Election Gazeta in February 2016, Dr. Waśko complained that too many students are going to high school, that we now have universal high school, almost universal studies and graduates of these studies looking for jobs as skilled workers. This is probably the first time in Europe when someone openly admits that they consider the educational aspirations of young Poles to be inappropriate. So far, we have all been proud of the level of colonization, proud of the results of Polish students, the pursuit of knowledge, the pursuit of higher education, the pursuit of universities. We were proud of the fact that we are the country most interested in learning from the countries of the European Union. It was our young people who broke through all the barriers and all the indicators in terms of the level of colonization. It was a reason to be satisfied, a reason to be proud. According to Dr. Waska, this is a situation that should change. From his words he surpassed his longing for conservative education, which only a narrow elite had access to, and soon after his birth he had a route for the rest of his life, the professor's son became a professor, the nurse's daughter - a nurse, the worker's son - a worker, and the farmer's children - a farmer. In such a conservative world there is no room for promotion, for ambition, for the fulfillment of the dreams of the young generation. [[What are you saying?]] In the People's Poland, such a system of education was to ensure the power of social peace, order, control of large groups of people, make the rulers reward for loyalty by facilitating social promotion or will condemn to degradation when someone leans out and comes against power. The nostalgia in your ranks behind such an education system is not new. The changes in the school system and school programs are designed to provide you with disciplined voters over whom you will have an invisible, but effective control, constancy will be rewarded and rebellion punished. You hope that when the future of the children is in your hands, when you decide who will complete primary school, who will go to the profession, and who will go to the elite high school, you will succeed in subjugating millions of voters, on such an occasion, giving the children a lesson in the only right ideology. Today, the school teaches skills, shows the young generation how to cope in a constantly changing world, what you need to learn not to feel worse than your peers in the European Union and not only. You want to replace this country with old, well-known cramming, memorizing, training children, having to stick entire chapters in your head from a textbook. Many of us It's been going on. Memory learning is not bad, provided that we devote memorable, objective and valuable things to it - said Dr. Waśko. Objective, valuable, i.e. according to your concept. No more diversity, no more pluralism of views, no more citizens' right to look at the world with their own eyes. Even when they err, let us not deny them the right to have a critical look at the surrounding reality so that they can make their own opinions and opinions about the surrounding reality. This is the true goal of this pseudo-reform: to reduce diversity, pluralism of views and at the same time to make us citizens who will follow the directions of power. [[Applause]] And that's why you want to eliminate middle school, schools that, as all relevant studies show, are most effective at equalizing differences between students and helping children from worse families to catch up with their wealthier peers. [[That's what you wanted.]] International tests of PISA and TIMSS students demonstrate that Polish schools have a high level of coherence, higher than the European Union average. The results of Polish junior high schools are similar, and differences in socio-economic status of pupils are smaller than on average in the European Union. You have talked a lot about aggression, but, as the Ministerial Institute for Educational Research, mental or physical torment has reported, one in five students in the Polish middle school and this is at a level that is not much different from the OECD average countries. We also do not deviate from other countries in terms of physical aggression, although every case of aggression is an educational failure. There is no doubt that we are not something unusual here also with regard to OECD countries. The results of the study of the Educational Research Institute also show that the greatest violence occurs in primary school and not in middle school. The young people who will go to secondary school from primary school will go with all the baggage of their emotions, including the bad ones, the negative ones with which we sometimes regret to learn. Yes, violence is a serious problem, but your reform doesn't change anything, it doesn't improve anything. Fifth lie: reform will make educational opportunities even. You have not provided any evidence that this is going to happen. Does the educational opportunities equal the abolition of preschool obligations for five-year-olds? After all, educational differences are the easiest to compensate for at an early stage of education. For children with disadvantaged backgrounds, the school is an opportunity for development, which the home is often unable to provide. Is it equal opportunities to leave children for the next 2 years in primary schools, which are generally less equipped and do not have the studios concerned, and often even gymnasiums? A young man going to middle school had a chance to go to a good middle school even from the weakest elementary school. Is he gonna go to a good high school now? It seems not, and 2019 will painfully expose it. Wouldn't the next two years of high school close the way to a good high school and a good college? How can we talk about equal opportunities for education for pupils and pupils in current classes IV, V and VI, which, as a result of changing the curriculum base in the middle of the teaching cycle, are prevented from gaining the full knowledge provided for in general education? The Minister said that the gaps would be made up in after-school life. The Minister of Education proposes to raise on pussy, tutoring or upbringing through the street or the yard? [[Applause]] What about equal access to artistic and bilingual education? You are eliminating artistic middle school and art classes in the eighth grade. How, then, will primary school graduates be able to prepare for the exams for secondary art schools without additional paid classes? Bilingual classes are created in a limited number of primary schools, so in the context of equal opportunities you have closed the way for most pupils to this form of education. What about the students of the current classes VI and I middle school who, as a result of the accumulation of yearbooks in 2019, lose the chance to get into the selected school? What are their equal opportunities if the place in secondary schools is being sought by 720 thousand. students and students instead of 350 thousand, how is it today? $720,000. it is not as many pupils as there were in 2010, and this is what the Ministry of National Education refers to, because in that year 438 thousand went to secondary schools. Students and students, and that's $282,000. less. Where there's a level playing field for those close to 300,000. Children? You're saying that not everyone has to go to high school and college. Of course, but let it be their choice, the choice of a young man, not the necessity of an adult error or misconceptions about [[Applause]] the structure of the new education system. What do you have to say about the educational opportunities of students in the current classes and junior high schools who will fail? Don't they get promotions and go back to the primary school they graduated the year before? A young man takes it as degradation and undeserved punishment. What about those who fail in the third grade and are forced to repeat two years of school? They're losing two years of their resume. Are these students and these schoolgirls losing their jobs as well? Finally, how does reducing the compulsory period of general education to 8 years equal educational opportunities? The Minister says that this period will not be shortened, because a six-year-old is also learning. That's not true, he's studied before, and 6 years + 3 isn't equal to 8 and it's impossible to describe it differently. So you don't even up the odds, you take those odds equally from all your children. [[Applause]] Lie six: no teacher will lose his job. From this speaker, also the Prime Minister, you assured me that no teacher would lose his job as a result of the reform. There were also such numbers: many thousands of additional jobs. Today, the situation is very different. What are you going to say to these thousands of teachers, Minister, who, seeing the charts of organizing schools, so it's not virtual reality, it's just the same documents you have, the probation officer and us, they didn't find their names in those sheets for 2017/2018? What are we going to say to those young teachers who will either work in reduced working time or have to run from school to school to have half a job? What we will also tell thousands of school administration staff - janitors, cooks, cleaners, accountants - without which the school does not exist, who will also lose their jobs as a result of the liquidation of more than 7 000. Junior highs? [[Applause]] More than 31 grand today. teachers know that they will lose their jobs or full-time employment because of the reform prepared by Ms Anna Zalewska. The data of the Polish Teachers' Association of 20 June 2017 are as follows. The loss of work currently involves 9389 teachers, a reduction in the staffing of 22 087 teachers. A total of 31 476 people are victims of this reform, i.e. those who are not in the organizational sheets for the following school year or are in the 2/4 dimension, half-time. These people are the same citizens of our country as any other. And since the Seymary has announced to the Minister of Education that no one will lose their jobs, I ask you what protective action the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, intends to take against these thirty thousand citizens, is going to take on your initiative. Young people who work 2/18 jobs and have a loan to pay off, and it's a teacher's marriage, or a young person who is proposed to work in seven schools to merge, are unable to be efficient, fully efficient teachers despite their great zeal, great willingness and great commitment. The worst situation is in Warsaw. Here he will say goodbye - according to information from the Education Office - 1235 teachers and 900 administrative and school staff. This is good news for you, on the one hand, because then you will say that it is the fault of the local government, because it is not the Ministry, it is the local government that is releasing these teachers, not providing them with jobs for the next years, as you answered the question of the president of the Łódź district, what will happen to 112 teachers of early school education. At the Social Dialogue Council, you replied that it was President Hanna Zdanowska's fault. Of course, someone has terminated their employment contracts, but certainly not the president of the city, regardless of which city it concerns. But this is not the end of drama and not the end of layoffs. The reduction of posts will affect 7 thousand people in Warsaw. teachers. Another infamous record is the number of teachers joining jobs in three schools - 913 people. In Warsaw this sometimes means taking a tram three stops away, but what will a Polish teacher do, who has been offered a job in five schools so that she can have a job or a teacher from Podkarpacie who has been offered a job in seven schools? In a group of teachers losing their jobs, that's over 9,000. persons, the majority are persons who have been given notice. 5200 teachers received notice, 4200 teachers did not extend their temporary employment contract, usually to young people. The highest number of redundancies will be in Mazowieckie, Małopolskie, Lubelskie, Wielkopolskie and Świętokrzyskie voivodships. In addition to Mazowsze, other voivodships have to face the reduction of mass-scale jobs. The reduction of staff will affect 2560 teachers in Podkarpackie voivodship, 2328 teachers in Świętokrzyskie voivodship, over 2 thousand. teachers in the Lesser Poland Voivodship and about 1500 teachers in the Lublin Voivodship. Unfortunately, every day improves this data to our disadvantage, the number of those who did not find their names in the organizational sheets for the next school year grows. Mr Adam Bodnar is also concerned that the reform will end with massive redundancies in education. In a recent letter addressed to you, he said that, in connection with the reform, there is also concern about the teacher's environment signalled in complaints to the Ombudsman concerning the loss of work and the possibility of losing work. It is worth recalling what you fund in particular the best-educated professional group. For a contract teacher, this is a job for less than PLN 1500, for a teacher appointed - for less than PLN 2,000. zł. This means that thousands of well-educated specialists, sometimes with two or three faculties who like and respect children, sentence their lives for a salary less than a minimum salary. You're talking about shields, but there are no shields for fired teachers. Next year, it will be even easier to fire teachers. In 2018, the director of the office will not have to submit an offer of relocation, the procedure will be simplified. The Minister boasts of the places of work that Polish teachers can find in the databases run by the curatoria. However, he prefers not to mention that the vast majority of offers concern part-time work, often half-time or much below, and that means working for even less than 500 PLN per month. Many other offers are addressed to specialist teachers, e.g. job offers in schools with correction facilities or work in facilities for children with disabilities. One of the IT guys from Gdansk middle school said he got a job as an IT guy in one hour. These are offers that no school teacher can accept, because he will not have the chance to be fully employed, he will not have the chance to improve his qualifications, especially since a large proportion of the offers in the curatorial databases have expired in the course of e.g. A few days after they were posted, right after the teacher found out about his fate. For example, the Education Curatorium in Wroclaw included in the database employment offers for nature teachers and geography teachers in Kłodzek, each in a dimension of 3 hours, which expired on 15 May, i.e. on the day when possibly interested in these offers could learn that their current school would run out of jobs for them. By the way, you want to force some of the teachers to work as touring teachers, each day doing dozens of kilometers to collect hours in different schools, often far away from each other. To this end, you changed the Teacher's Charter, allowing teachers to be transferred from school to school, while you suspended the article. 18 The Teacher Charter Act, which states that if a teacher is transferred from office to another town, he should be provided with an apartment and a place of employment for his spouse if he is a teacher. I just don't want to be forced to fire good teachers, said Wiesław Włodarski, director of I High School of General Education. Ruy Barbosa in Warsaw and teacher of the year 2007, explaining why he decided to leave the school with which he has been associated for the last decades. I don't want to be a director anymore, because next year I'd have a wave of layoffs, says Director Włodarski, perfectly summing up the essence of the so-called. Ms Anna Zalewska's reform. A similar opinion was given by the director of one of the junior high schools in Krakow, who also resigned from her job, not wanting to fire her teachers. Let me repeat - the record holder will be teaching since September in seven schools in Podkarpacie. How much time will that teacher have for the student, how much time will the students have in contact with that teacher? The fifth lie: it is citizens and citizens who want these changes and we are ready for dialogue. Yes, two years ago, education reform plans were supported by most of the population, but when we learned the details, it turned out that some of us did not expect what the Ministry of National Education proposed, and support began to decline. However, the ministry remained deaf to the voices of criticism and even to ordinary questions. Minister Anna Zalewska often talked about dialogue, consultations, the fact that everyone can comment, and the Ministry is open to dialogue and questions, but how did this dialogue with representatives look in practice? Minister Anna Zalewska has never met with representatives of parental movements opposing the reform. During the past year he once met with his parents Deputy Minister Maciej Kopeć - in order to inform them that the mode of reform is conditional on the electoral calendar and no changes in its shape or at the rate of implementation can take place. Putting the electoral calendar above the welfare of the child leaves no comment. The Ministry was obstructed by cooperation with a foundation closely related to Law and Justice, the foundation of Mr Wojciech Starzyński. The Foundation allegedly consulted the parents on the proposed changes. It's time to overthrow another untruth. Not one of the conferences held by the School Foundation concerned education reform, of which Mrs. Dorota Łoboda, sitting here, can best testify. Parents and teachers were present at all meetings of the Sejm Committee on Education, Science and Youth. In December, they attended a public hearing on the bill. Members of the Law and Justice voted against a public hearing. Why? What were you afraid of? The truth? That your vision of a broad social support for reform will fail with difficulty? At the same meeting, representatives of parental organisations from all over Poland wanted to take the floor. You denied them the right to speak. Mothers and fathers from all over Poland, also present here in the courtroom, have been dismissed, have returned to their cities with a sense of deep injustice and belief that the voice of parents does not mean anything to the authority that the authority does not want to listen to citizens and citizens having questions, doubts or, God forbid, a completely different opinion on education reform. [[Applause]] In December, before voting on the Law of Education, parents sent a letter to all 231 Members of Law and Justice. How many of you have responded to the requests and questions of frightened parents, mothers and fathers who, in their concern for the welfare of their children, have asked the authorities for help? How many of you? The answer is not one. That's what the dialogue looked like. Organizations and parental movements sent a letter to Prime Minister Beata Szydło asking for a meeting. The Prime Minister in the media confirmed that she knew about the letter and said that she could meet her parents, although she felt that the reform was well prepared. Journalists were more fortunate than their parents: they heard any answer. There was no reply from the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers to the parents, although more than two months passed. It is no wonder, then, that parents and teachers protested on the streets after exhausting all possible ways to reach power. But not only that, they were also on strike. Despite the various assessments of this event, I would like to point out that this has been the biggest event in the last several years, which is to refrain from working for more than 150,000. people doing one profession, in one place, in one workplace, for which all those who have undertaken it, thank you very much. But also parents each 10th day of the month under one act of desperation did not send their children to schools in protest against forceful changes in education. In a civilized country, does authority know better than parents what is good for their children? - that's what Beata Kempy said. She said that a few years ago. What's changed since then? This question remains unanswered, but it appears very often. What has changed since 2009, which has changed since 2005, when did you have different views on this matter? The sixth lie: reform is costless. The way in which the reform was implemented surprises Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. He was disappointed by the analysis of the costs of the changes made when he assessed the proposal for a new regulation on framework teaching plans. According to the officials of Prime Minister Morawiecki, the costs of education reform were to be paid by local governments, but it turns out that the government will have to find additional resources. The cost of who or what? The foundation of the Law of 14 December 2016. Educational law introducing reform of the school system was that any change in the educational tasks of local government units would be financed by their funds, including from the educational part of the subsidy, without the need to increase it. The provisions of the proposed regulation are a consequence of this reform - wrote the Ministry of Development and Finance in its opinion. The Ministry was also surprised by the MEN's calculations of the costs of the changes, as the reform was to bring savings for the education system in the years to come. What kind of savings? Since the creation of junior high schools, i.e. since 1999, local governments have spent PLN 130 billion on junior high school, including PLN 8 billion on investment. The cost of losing junior high only in the first 2 years is estimated at PLN 1 billion. It is difficult to estimate the costs of dismissals and briefings of teachers and school administration staff and the cost of renovating and adapting school infrastructure. That's what local governments will pay for. It is about the money to buy benches or chairs for the youngest students to those primary schools that will be built in place of junior high schools, as well as the purchase of lighthouse equipment. In addition, there is the cost of archiving the documentation of the schools that have been removed and the cost of purchasing new seals and plates, the fitting of school cafés, the adaptation of sanitary facilities to the needs of the youngest children. Let's look at examples of expenditure this year: Bydgoszcz - PLN 3 million, Gdańsk - 25 million, Warsaw - 65 million, Poznań - 13 million. And these are just a few cities. We all know the government doesn't have its own money. That's our money. We can see how wasted they are. Self-governments already write applications for funding to the Ministry of National Education in case the secondary school is converted into an 8-year primary school. The first requests concerning the renovation of the cemetery were submitted by 330 local authorities. They account for over PLN 17 million. As far as sanitary renovations are concerned, 308 applications for more than 32 million PLN have been received in this respect. Towns such as Warsaw, Lublin, Wroclaw and Katowice have been the biggest beneficiaries. The cost of printing textbooks subsidised from the budget only in 2017 is 357 million. But they're gonna be out of date, and money's gonna be wasted. With this money you can build daycare, kindergartens, gymnasiums in schools where they're missing them. The whole society will pay for reckless changes, including those who don't have children. [[Applause]] And the last lie: the reform is already in place and it cannot be reversed. You ask very often why the reference proposal came so late, but we note that we have been protesting since the first minutes when Minister Anna Zalewska in Toruń announced her revolutionary changes. But we didn't impose the crazy pace of the bill. At each stage, changes could be stopped if you would only listen to the voices of those who opposed this change, their arguments, their comments, because these were all remarks directed in the interest of the Polish student, the Polish child. You were not convinced by the 50 thousandth demonstration of teachers in Warsaw in November 2016. Dozens of street protests were not convinced: teachers, parents, local government officials. The voice of experts, rectors of universities, teachers, parents and students was not convinced. We sent our opinions to the Ministry of National Education, to the President, to Members of Law and Justice. At the meeting at the President's Office of the Republic of Poland, Minister Sadurska convinced us that it was worth waiting for the bill to reach the President, that the President would then think about it. The Minister didn't know that this bill had been in her law firm for over a week. This was the level of interest of the Minister in matters which were already in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland. The Polish Teachers' Association paid over 250,000. signatures in defense of the Polish school. We asked: let's reform, but make sense, because school needs to change. What's the rush? Why can't we start making changes from the beginning of the educational cycle? Why do we bring about unwarranted chaos, giving any negative effects to a child, a student in our schools? You have the right to reform the education system and no one takes it away from you, but not like this. Finland, where we look at education with delight, has been reforming for several years. Minister Anna Zalewska herself referred to this example in 2009. Let's start with the teacher education system and what students should be taught at the Polish school and what people students should be after graduation. Let's talk about it. Convince us that you're right. And first of all, let's not hurt the children. It is they who will be the victims of changes made by adults - such statements have repeatedly been made by parents, teachers, local governments, scientists. Do not tell us that this pseudoreform cannot be undone, that it is too late for a referendum. You've wasted two months since your application, and many self-governments still, up to and including today, say they're ready to adopt a law within two hours to correct what was adopted under the so-called law. reform of Anna Zalewska. We have no reason to believe that the actual state of preparation is so advanced that it cannot be continued that it cannot be undone, sorry, informed by local authorities. In the Sejm, Members of the opposition took the parliamentary initiative, which I spoke about at the beginning, concerning the transfer of the entry into force of the law to 1 September 2018. I therefore call on the ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Members, but also from the other parliamentary clubs, to support this initiative, to proceed quickly and to adopt this amendment. We will all gain a year to improve what is wrong in the proposed changes, which harms the Polish school, which harms the Polish student. [[Applause]] This will allow for a serious debate on education and the preparation of any changes... [[But why do you deny yourself?]] ...in such a way that no one feels disappointed, surprised that no one is forced to do so, and at the same time that there is full transparency of the proposed changes and participation in the public debate guaranteed for everyone. Self-governments are waiting for a signal. They are in a state of emergency to amend the resolutions adopted so far on school children. Let's do something together for the sake of the system, and above all for the sake of Polish children. The reform is only on paper for now. Those who will be responsible for implementing it are talking about it. No school has been decommissioned yet. No child has yet begun to learn on a revised curriculum basis, and their statements have been given to teachers, and they can be withdrawn, returned to the old school network. Do not tell us that by destroying over 17 years of achievements of thousands of Polish schools, thousands of Polish students, teachers, parents, you are fulfilling the will of a sovereign who voted for Law and Justice in parliamentary elections. [[Of course.]] The recent CBOS studies show how much society did not realize what was behind the proposed changes. After 2 months of making people aware of what is really behind the so-called. Minister Anna Zalewska's reform, support for the referendum has increased. According to a recent CBOS study up to 62%. There are almost 40% of those who support the referendum. voters of Law and Justice, as well as 59% the voters of Kukiz.15. If a referendum were to take place, it would probably enjoy a record post 1989 turnout. As many as 78% want to take part in the vote surveyed, of which 56% Definitely. Up to 83% the voters of Law and Justice declared that they would have taken part in an educational referendum if it had been distributed. The opponents of Anna Zalewska's ideas are divided into loud and quiet. It is us - parents, teachers, local governments. Sometimes we have access to the media, but not all, we go to demonstrations, we collect signatures, we talk to every citizen on the street, sometimes also to the one who is in favour of change, but does not support the pace and chaos that results from this pace. But there are also silent opponents, such as the Deputy Minister of Education Maciej Kopeć, who managed to save from the liquidation of the junior high school in which he worked before. It's just a pity it's the only middle school saved like this. If other schools were able to create classes VII and VIII, the number of branches would show that parents and children do not want 8 years in the same school. That is why you did not agree to an amendment allowing for such a solution. I believe that there are people among you who realize that this is not how education reform is introduced. Make a brave decision, give the voice to the Poles and Poles. Let them say what schools they want for Polish children, for their children. We don't want to hear it's too late. It's never too late to be honest. You have promised many times in your campaign that you will listen to your citizens and not throw your signatures in the trash. In a moment there will be an argument in this discussion: and our opponents threw thousands of signatures into the basket. Yes, you did, but you promised it would be different, that it would be better to make a good change. [[Applause]] [[There it is.]] For weeks now, you have been trying to undermine the citizenship of the proposal and put a patch on it. Mr Zalek said that it was not that the citizens did not sign the proposal, that other representatives of the Law and Justice were returning to him. Do not divide us into better and worse. In this way, you insult thousands of people who stood on the streets and collected signatures, who themselves came asking for this signature, even being your supporters, while realizing that something that distinguishes Poland in a united Europe is very good education. They're not willing, they're not ready, they don't accept the process of destroying it. [[Applause]] It was mothers and fathers who were representatives of NGOs, social movements and political parties. These aren't enigmatic things. Behind all these names, behind these civic movements, behind political parties, behind the unions are thousands of beings, thousands of parents who have their children and grandchildren in school and do not accept this kind of chaos. We are not ashamed that we have the right, we have the courage to say that we want a good school for Polish students. This good school is not provided by the reform of Minister Anna Zalewska. We have managed to build a broad coalition around the referendum. We are the same citizens, citizens regardless of being part of any organization. We have a citizens' right to demand a referendum. It's the rule of a democratic state. They are not reserved only for specific groups. Let's talk substantively, let's not outrun each other in proving who has greater civil rights, who doesn't have that right. We don't look at it in terms of winnings and losers, because in this game, our children must be our winners. Think of them. For Members of Parliament, the vote is only a moment, but at the moment the fate of our children, our grandchildren, is at stake. If you stop this reform, you slow down, we'll start from the beginning, from the first grade, maybe from kindergarten. We're all gonna be happy about this, because we're finally gonna do something godlike, and we're gonna do something right, and we're not gonna blow it up from the inside. [[Look who's talking.]] [[Eight years!]] Most of you have children or grandchildren of school age. Are we really ready to give them this educational nightmare: overcrowded classrooms, study for change, lessons with school-to-school teachers, lessons from new programming bases written on their knees? Are you really going to condemn your children and grandchildren to studying in a deformed school by Minister Anna Zalewska? Will we be able to look each other in the eye afterwards? Will you look into the eyes of your children, your grandchildren, thousands of parents and teachers, who are also your constituents? I hope that there is time for reflection that there is time for an in-depth debate for which we should all be ready. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u529	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u530	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Law and Justice have always been important to the education of Poles. We said it was important for every Pole to have a profession that would allow him to maintain himself and his family. We appreciated the role of education in the modern world. It was the Poles who told us for many years that Polish education requires changes, that there is the last moment for them to be introduced. They also remind us of this today and prove it. These are just some of the e-mails we got on this case. Education reform has been in the Law and Justice programme for many years. The programme of changes has been mottod in the public opinion as the elimination of secondary education, but it is really about a fundamental change in the whole educational system. We have been honest about this in the 2015 presidential and parliamentary elections, which we have won decisively, which I would like to remind you of the opposition above all. This means that Poles accepted, and twice, our proposals for changes in Poland, including changes in education. The delusion, or even the lie, is what the opposition does, telling Poles that they do not agree to it. Not only is it a lie, but it's a dirty political action. The total hysterical opposition has lost ground and is searching for every method, even dishonest, to attack the parliamentary majority elected in democratic elections. It is also intended to be served by party activists and activists of one trade union to request a referendum. We respect direct democracy, including the institution of referendum. However, it is important to ensure that citizens are informed of the objectives, assumptions and facts of the area covered by the reference proposal. We respect all those who have signed this proposal. They probably did it in good faith and in care for the fate of Polish education. However, we can no longer say the same thing about the president of the ZNP, who prepared and company the whole political action, after all, the involvement of Sławomir Broniarz in political actions of total opposition was so extreme that in one line he performed with a singer and executioner of martial law colonel... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Lying!]] ...Comrade Colonel Mazgula. [[Applause]] He's also trying to manipulate politically today. [[Voices from the hall: Shame!]] He even refers to European opponents of the Polish government. [[Look, we didn't scream like lies.]] [[Calm down.]] He does not even like the fact that the reform assumes learning the basics of computer science since the first grade of primary school. In practice, Mr. Defendor involved members of his union in a political fight, expressing himself clearly on one side of the dispute, an aggressive side of the dispute. [[What about the people and the citizens?]] Did the teachers, the members of the CIS, agree to become members of the CODE in a way? I don't think so. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Who told you that?]] In our view, President Bronisz has lost credibility as a trade union activist because he has become an active politician in practice. In fact, the credibility itself had already been damaged. After all, at the time of the introduction of middle school he was their hot opponent, and now, when they are extinguished, he is their fierce supporter. And that's what we have intimidatingly just to attack the current party. [[Don't lie to me.]] Today, Mr Bronisz refers to the youngest voters who grew up under the PO-PSL regime and mostly voted in favour of Law and Justice in recent elections. Coalition, it's about you now, PO-PSL during your reign... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point!]] ...did not want to listen to the voices of the citizens, and sent over 1.5 million signatures to the shredder under civic reference proposals for education. She didn't have a lot of protests about pulling history from school. [[What kind of withdrawal?]] She didn't have any protests against a six-year-old high school coercion. She was deaf to educational problems, violence, drugs, and other problems of growing young people in middle school. She ignored the alarming voices of the academic community about the poor preparation of high school graduates and technicians. [[The Member has not read the opinion of the environment.]] She completely ignored the growing problem of demographic poverty, the liquidation of thousands of schools and the loss of work by tens of thousands of teachers. [[If you have anything to do with this reform, you can talk.]] Where was this great reviewer, Mr. Defender, when the PO-PSL government destroyed Polish education? If it was so good, then why, Mr President, did the students take so much of the tutoring, which became practically the second educational circuit? Your shouts only remind you that you have a lot behind your collar and you're afraid of that change. [[We'd like to talk to you about something.]] This is the state of Polish education we found after the 2015 elections. You should have. [[♪ The bell ♪]] energetically proceed to the rescue of the Polish school. Needed laws after consultation, necessary corrections... [[Voices from the O.R.: Time!]] [[Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u531	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u532	Only, Mr. Marshal, they were disturbing me, I couldn't really fully express myself.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u533	Go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u534	The overwhelming majority of local governments... [[We weren't interrupting.]] ...and the schools are ready to reform today. Students and their parents know where these students will start school on September 1. They're ready...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u535	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u536	...new software bases, and publishing houses have prepared over... [[They're shutting us down, and he's not.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u537	Mr. President, I'm very... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u538	...handbooks. And finally. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u539	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u540	I'm almost done, Marshal. [[40+.]] Any citizen can therefore assess the actions of the Law and Justice and maintain a total opposition. [[But time's up.]] We repair the Polish school, and they disturb only in the name of their own interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u541	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u542	Nevertheless, while respecting the signatures of Poles under reference, we suggest that this request be addressed...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u543	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u544	...for further work on the committee. [[Applause]] [[Everyone gets more after a minute?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u545	Thank you, sir. [[A minute longer.]] High Izbo! I have such a huge request. They listen to this debate, as I said at the beginning, both its supporters and its opponents. I hope the students are listening as well. I'd really like to ask... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[They go to bed at this time of night.]] I would very much ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to allow anyone who takes the floor to speak quietly on your point. [[But not insulting people.]] Please, Mrs Urszula Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u546	Thank you, Marshal. It is only a pity that the speech of my previous speaker was devoted to the Chairman of the Guns and previous governments, not to the subject we are debating today. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, first the gymnastics moment... [[If you were listening, you would have heard what he was talking about.]] ...from memory. Member, you too. Who said these words: It is hard to imagine topics more suitable for a referendum than a case involving children, a relationship between parents - children, and the right for parents to decide about their own children? He's not here with us, he didn't honor us with his presence, but I'll give you a hint. This is what Mr Jarosław Kaczyński said in 2013. [[Applause]] Besides, there are still promises in my ears that you made during the election campaign: We will organize... [[Debates?]] ...referenda, we will ask Poles what to do. Besides, the word "suwieren" was changed by all cases during the whole campaign. So I ask, where are your promises? Where is the dialogue with parents and teachers? [[They're all being realized.]] You invited to the gallery today had to be introduced for hours, because you were unable to arrange passes for them and we had a lot of trouble for that. Shame, ladies and gentlemen. [[We?]] It's just a shame. It's disrespectful to people. [[Applause]] [[You, you.]] You fooled them in the campaign, you underestimate them today. [[Two and a half more years.]] The way you have dealt with the debate decision today also shows that you do not respect people or education. The debate at this time -- we have, ladies and gentlemen, at half past eleven -- about things that you don't really care about, because apparently, there aren't those who make decisions? I'm really ashamed of you. [[He doesn't have to.]] If you respect education... [[Shame on you.]] ...then you wouldn't destroy the achievements of the Polish school, you wouldn't write on the knee a terrible program basis. If you don't want to listen to the opposition, I'll remind you of at least a few names of experts: Professor Dr. Hab. Andrzej Markowski, Council of Polish Language: The content of education is outdated, they reflect the cultural and communication reality from 50 years ago, the museum. Professor Łukasz Turski, quoted today, Prof. Jacek Żurek from KUL, Prof. Mirosław Handke - this sentence is important, I will quote it: It will be dramas of young people, and the parents in charge will not forgive it. [[Applause]] Professor Krzysztof Biedrzycki, UJ: This programming basis is contrary to modern teaching, psychological, linguistic, literary and cultural knowledge. What you're doing is disrespect for people, for teachers, for education, for authorities. No Respect for [[Applause]] Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, for the association of academic rectors, for the Scientific Committee on the Literature of the Polish Academy of Sciences, for a lot of environments that are critical of what you are doing. I don't even want to mention how your government colleagues are criticizing you anymore, because the Ministry of Development has written about your program base, that it is an randomly selected set of topics of very different importance to the economy and the development of the citizen, and that will make them briefly discussed, which undermines the sense to implement them at all. This is an assessment of your colleagues. You don't respect teachers. Poland has one of the biggest educational successes in Europe. I will no longer talk about PISA studies and how successful we have been, but these studies also show, and this really gives the impression that the percentage of the weakest students in Poland has decreased, from 22% to 14%, and at the same time the percentage of pupils with the best results has increased, from 10% up to 17%, which means that students from less privileged backgrounds now have a much better chance of success at school. Actually, I should say, they did, because thanks to you, they won't have it. What made the greatest impression on the head of the OECD Education Department Andreas Schleicher was that Poland, which is rare in Europe, the next governments, could implement a coherent set of reforms, from structural changes in the late 1990s to the introduction of new programming bases in 2009. Poland not only reformed teaching, but also changed school culture. This is an external opinion, this is an opinion from Europe. [[Applause]] And that, ladies and gentlemen, is also due to teachers. And what does the PiS propose to teachers? You're offering them a new school where you don't trust a teacher, but you're leading him by the hand, dictating exactly what he's supposed to do. And you're offering lies because the Minister is lying that teachers won't lose their jobs. Just now my predecessor was talking about how many teachers had already been given notice. I'm afraid to think about what happens next. I'm afraid to think about this school where the lessons will be from dawn to night for two shifts. I'm afraid to think about school without children with disabilities because you send them home. It's scary to think there's no books, no elites, but you're gonna give the kids a disaster in two years, because in unequal eliminations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're not gonna get into their dream schools. It is hard to imagine topics more suitable for a referendum than a case involving children, a relationship between parents - children, and the right for parents to decide about their own children. Mr Kaczyński is not here, but he can hear me for sure. Mr President, we are saying: I am checking. We demand a referendum. [[Voice from the hall: This is scaring.]] Don't be afraid of the sovereign. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u547	You're welcome, Mr. Thomas Swallow.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u548	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I like socialists arguing about education... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, indeed.]] ...because neither side has a solution when it comes to education, none. You're just fighting like a party tribe. It's been 27 years. Art. The 4th Constitution clearly states that sovereignty belongs to the citizens. As a rule, the Kukiz movement is absolutely a supporter of the referendum [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] and we will, of course, support such a referendum. [[Applause]] We have supported referendum initiatives over the years. We've supported referendums for years. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But you did not support it.]] We were the first to make such a request, a request to the President of the Republic, and encouraged the President to take advantage of the article on this matter, on education. 125... [[How many signatures did you get?]] ...to take advantage of the article. 125 and with the help of the Senate he wrote such a referendum. Why? So we can make them early. Because we've done this 9 or 10 months before, and unfortunately there was no backup from either side. Then it would make sense. Does this referendum make sense today? From a time standpoint, no. From the point of view of the fact that a citizen can say something about it - always so. Unfortunately, when we fought, for example. I didn't see any enthusiasm in this house. That's too bad. [[Sorry, we backed up.]] Referendum, ladies and gentlemen, you all treat... [[Sclerosis doesn't hurt.]] You all treat referendums instrumentally. When it's good for you, you reach for the referendum. When it's not good, you've got votes, all of you. [[Applause]] Shredders walk in parliament. That's how you all respect the citizen. [[Kukiz Club.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are not interested in these parties. What should the referendum look like? Well, it should look like it should be mandatory in some cases, certainly like the one where the score should be binding, and that makes sense. But does any of you support such an initiative? No, it's just the Kukiz movement that supports this initiative. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You only use your citizens from time to time... [[Voice from the room: How many signatures?]] ...then you never use the statutory amendment. It's been ground for years. [[Perhaps you'd like to look that way.]] I'm looking. I'm not convinced in this referendum by Mr. Broniar's person, I'm very sorry. No, I'm looking, there are my colleagues everywhere. I respect you all. [[And you can see the darkness.]] [[And President Kaczyński, do you see?]] I respect everyone, ladies and gentlemen, because I'm not partisans who hate each other. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Guns, when junior high was introduced, he was protesting. In 2015 he signs a contract... [[He'll always say what he's told.]] ...with the United Left. And here's a quote: Junior high school is a failed educational experiment. I'm pointing out, [[Applause]] that middle school contributes to the accumulation of educational problems. Mr. Chairman, when are you telling the truth? [[Voices from the O.R.: Never.]] [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the loss of work by teachers - another thing that was raised. [[Voice from the room: Such awkwardness.]] Of course you do, teachers lose their jobs. But please note that the sheets have only been initially accepted, they will actually be completed by 31 August. It is obvious that teachers - I raised it - will lose their jobs, and it is a great misfortune. But, ladies and gentlemen, didn't they lose their jobs in your day? They lost it, of course they did. [[Voice from the room: No!]] [[Voice from the room: Where?]] I'd rather encourage the NSA to, for example. created, supported such a project, for example. people with pension rights could no longer work in public schools. Can you support such a project? [[It's true.]] 'Cause they're usually unionists who are pretty well set up from every union structure, and they don't lose their jobs because they're buddies of rabbits. [[Applause]] I'm already overlooking how you choose directors in our country. You don't touch any educational problems at all. First of all, you don't touch the educational bonus problem. You don't really touch decentralisation of education, programs. You don't want to give the outposts freedom. You don't want to finally face the Teacher's Charter Act that needs to be... [[Kukiz is behind the educational bon?]] I'm behind the educational bon and most of the non-public education. [[Voice from the room: A or Kukiz?]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have called for a shift of reform - and this is a fact - by 3 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] She should be better prepared. On the other hand, this stamp, ladies and gentlemen, is proof of your hypocrisy. Here it is: we demand a referendum. [[Applause]] The producers of this stamp haven't been in eight years that you didn't wear it in your previous term of office? [[Applause]] [[It wasn't necessary.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u549	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Hypocrites.]] [[Sign up for the PiS, man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u550	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! The entire education reform of Minister Zalewski was based on a lie. You lied about the layoffs of teachers and other educational staff, that they wouldn't be there, and it turns out that it's probably gonna lose about $9,000 this year. persons. [[But we didn't lie about Portugal.]] [[In the case of Madeira, she was telling the truth.]] [[Keep your voice down!]] Up to 30 thousand jobs will be lost by 2019. persons. There are job offers for teachers in the system, but for 2, 3 hours a week. This means that a record teacher would have to work in seven schools to have a full salary. You lied about the experts, you said you were leaning on them, and all your experts turned on you and said they didn't support the liquidation of junior high. You lied about consultations that weren't there. [[They were.]] You didn't ask the parents or the children or the local government, you didn't ask anybody. [[We asked.]] You lied that you could prepare good programs, and the opinions about programs are clear: they are archaic and badly prepared. [[You're still lying.]] [[Voice from the hall: Czech schools.]] Probably textbooks will be at the last minute, if they're even on time. You lied about the probation officers working with the local government... [[We weren't lying.]] ...and we have a situation in which in the municipality of Błaszka in the framework of the reform it was not allowed to eliminate any of the schools, including a school which will have 17 students and is located in the shop, while at the same time three well-equipped junior high schools had to be eliminated. [[Eight years.]] You lied that there would be money to reform, and most of the change in government must be done at their own expense. They have to pay for your ideas. You lied that after the reform it would be safer... [[The voice from the room: you lied.]] ...and we have a situation where there will be six-year-olds at school with 15-year-olds. It'll be less, not more safe. You lied and you continue to lie that in 2019. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The kids are gonna get into their dream high school, and we know that two yearbooks are gonna storm high school and technology. We will have a situation when many children are deprived of their dreams. We're gonna have a situation where a lot of kids don't get where they want to go. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But we didn't bother the Guns, there was silence.]] Perhaps, as I understand it, the point is to push industry schools, which are your idea, and which probably wouldn't have found people willing otherwise. You take away children's dreams. The Poles noticed your lies and realized that junior high was an opportunity for young people. [[What's the chance?]] Therefore, most Poles changed their mind and only 1/3 of Poles accept your reform. Therefore 62% The Poles want a referendum to say the thunderbolt of your reform. That's why we've raised over 910,000 for just over two months. signatures. That's the number of signatures we've collected. [[Applause]] They are a signal from a society that doesn't want your deformity because it wants good education for its children. When you applied for a referendum on six-year-olds in your previous term of office, you said that parents have the right to decide. You said society should be listened to. Now you're ignoring the voice of society. [[We don't underestimate you.]] You're telling us it's too late now. You're deaf to the will of society, for the sake of the students... [[We're not.]] ...for the voice of local governments. You are making changes that will only make the state of Polish education worse. This is supported by a modern referendum, although we realise that it is very late. [[Your friend will be running out of time.]] But it's never too late to reverse the bad changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u551	It wasn't missing. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Schmidt. However, I hope that children and young people do not see us. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[What was that?]] [[No comment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u552	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Each of us has memories of our school years. We reminisce about those favorite teachers and the less favorite ones. Those who were liked were those who respected the subjectivity of the student who allowed debate, discussion during the lesson. These disliked ones considered themselves omnipotent, omnipotent, did not give any opportunity for dialogue or polemics. Minister, I'm sorry to tell you today, but you're the omniscient one, you think you're an omniscient teacher who's just not allowing any debate. You force it -- you push the deformity, because it's hard to call it reform -- changes that don't have any quality characteristics. Both the style of making changes and the effects of these changes are taking us back decades from what we have already done in Poland in terms of school education. Former Minister of Civic Platform once said that the Polish state is theoretical. Today, your ministry is acting theoretically. Unfortunately, there will be practical and real consequences of your actions. I regret that for a year and a half, more than 1.5 years of work here, during debates in this Chamber, as well as during committee work, we are talking so little about quality changes. We are talking about the fact that quality changes, reform is needed in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're all for it. We will support changes, but qualitative changes, Minister. What you are funding is structural change, that is wasting energy, time, all those years that have led to the quality of education we have in Poland at the moment. I was the chancellor of the university, and I also started elementary schools, middle school and high school, and I ran these schools. I know how many hours we've spent with teachers talking about how to change the whole education process at school... [[Exactly.]] ...what changes are needed. Let's talk about it. That's what we need today. I am asking you very much for this reflection, because there is still time to stop this reform. It's wasted not months, it's years. I ask you to reflect... [[This is not a reform.]] ...because there's still time to stop the reform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u553	Member, but I am asking you to finish, because it is time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u554	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u555	Thank you. I ask Mr Krystian Jarubas to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u556	Dear Marshal, The Minister has left... [[There's the minister.]] ...but you're the Deputy Minister. Dear Applicants! High Izbo! Dear Members of the Gallery! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the citizens' request for a referendum on national issues of education reform, print No. 1571. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Shame. It's almost time. 23. First of all, we would like to thank you very much for your generous decision, Mr. Marshal, for being kind enough to say goodbye at an hour. 21 lean on the civic project. I mean, he could've been here at an hour. 24 start proceding. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Next time.]] Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much for choosing the so-called one. prime time to work on this proposal. Seriously, Mr. Marshal, shame. [[Because?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the gallery! I apologize for the late hours of this project, and thank you for being here. [[Get to the point.]] [[There is really nothing left to say for the Member.]] What PiS presents today is an example of shoes and arrogance. Before the election, ladies and gentlemen, you were talking about how you would listen to the citizens. [[And we're listening.]] I remember the Prime Minister glorifying the referendum, and today... [[What about today?]] [[Exactly.]] And today, ladies and gentlemen, you are showing... [[Middle finger.]] ...that it was bullshit. [[What do you mean?]] [[PSL is one big fake.]] [[What kind of polemics is that?]] It was a lie because you're ignoring the signatures of almost a million people. The hour and mode of work on this project are proof of this. It's not the first time. [[What have you been doing for eight years?]] What's going on with the civil project that put together the PSL? I'm talking about a retirement project after 40 years of work. More than 100,000 were collected. signatures, positive opinions of trade unions. [[Eight years.]] [[And who raised the retirement age?]] [[Eight years.]] No, they don't work for you. You're ignoring the Sovereign's voice. What's more, and what's worse, is not only that you're ignoring it, you don't have any ideas yet, and when you do, it's stupid. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: What have you been doing for eight years?]] [[Liars and crooks.]] What is the deformity of education offered by you? This is what teachers who lose their jobs are already learning, and after September 1st, if we do not stop this storm that you have started, the students will see, and the parents, the honourable Member. [[Voice from the room: What have you done with 10,000? The teachers who lost their jobs when you were in charge?]] [[$3,000. closed schools.]] It's not enough to be sentimental. Today, governments should be responsible and specific about matters. [[How's Janek Bury? How are his bars?]] Mr Caryca, take it easy. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Caryca Catherine.]] So far, we do not know what the MEN's position on the PSL proposals for education is. Ladies and gentlemen, a warm meal for each child, every day 1 hour of foreign language or a reduction in the number of students in the classroom to 20. Don't you know what you think? [[Voice from the hall: Did you know?]] You prefer to change stamps and tablets, fire people and spend money on changes, not necessarily good changes. [[Now they've got more spending on cars. There was another bell.]] I appeal to you, my fellow Members, Members and Members, to get your shit together. [[What kind of language is that?]] Education is an important area, it's the future. Don't ruin the future for young people. My dear fellows, don't ruin the future for young people. And if you want to be fair to the sovereign, let the people speak in a referendum on reform. Start being decent. Sam, my dears, I am the father of three children and I do not want you to destroy their future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You'll get over it, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u557	I ask Mr Jack Protasiewicz to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u558	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I participate in this debate in late evenings not only as a parliamentarian but also as a parent, a sixth-grade father. The arguments that I am about to make are not just the position of the European Union of Democrats, but the result of many, very many conversations with the parents of my son's peers, who I run at school, during sports activities and various school events. What is troubling us about this reform? Firstly, this reform limits the opportunities for individual development of children through the elimination of bilingual secondary schools. Those children who wanted to choose such a path of education or whose families wanted to choose such a path of education for them will no longer have this opportunity on 1 September. Secondly, there is no doubt that there is a huge risk of lowering the level of education. [[Can you lower it a little bit?]] In fact, I do not think there is one subject in which the basis of the programme would not be accumulatingly criticised, in a large part by ministers sitting on the same Council of Ministers as Minister Zalewska. That's what the CEO of the Gunman was talking about. I will use only a fragment, a quote from the opinion of the Polish Language Council at the Polish Academy of Sciences. [[Really a polonist?]] [[Oh, I don't believe it.]] The presented project is inconsistent, illogical, with numerous errors, including language and terminology, exhibits the incompetence of the copyright team. The content of education is outdated, they reflect the reality from 50 years ago, they will be seen by children as a open-air museum. As a museum, exactly. In fact, there was nothing more to expect from you than to offer children a museum. [[Sir, take it easy.]] Third, two changes, so disorganizing the lives of children and the lives of whole families. Some parents will learn in September that instead of at hours. 8 of their children will start teaching at 3 p.m. 11 or at 11 p.m. 12. [[In a good way.]] Who will allow them to change their work organisation? You'll be the target of your parents' rage in September. That's what I wish you. I don't feel sorry for you. Fourthly, it's a job reduction. This was also mentioned by the Chairman of the Defendor. At least a few thousand, or perhaps tens of thousands of teachers, threaten to either reduce their salary or even lose their jobs. [[It's scary, it's fairy tales.]] And finally huge money outbursts to cheer, fired to cheer only for the satisfaction of the Minister, the Prime Minister and perhaps Kaczyński's President, because huge expenditures on converting, adapting junior high school buildings to the needs of primary schools, i.e. new sanitary facilities, changes in sanitary facilities, playgrounds or cafeteria, are money thrown out at least, I say, in the air. And now for the referendum itself. Mr Marshal, it is indeed a disgrace that at this time and in such a brief debate, in five minutes' speeches we refer to a proposal, under which twice as many citizens signed, almost twice as much as required by the Act, the Republic of Poland asking for a referendum. [[And if there were 2 million signatures...]] [[Who's talking?]] This only strengthens this conviction of parents, I heard it myself, because I witnessed such a conversation: you politicians, I think that's why you are introducing this reform - I have already talked about it from this place - to have a stupider nation, because it is easier for such a nation to rule. I want to repeat again: Maciek, author of these words, friend, father of my son's colleague, not us, politicians, and those politicians who sit in the Ministry of National Education, and today sit in government benches, and those who support this reform, and basically deformity. They are responsible for the shape of this reform. [[Relax, sir.]] And they're about to come to your motion for a referendum exactly as they say they are going to, so they're going to do everything they can to ensure that this referendum doesn't happen. [[But the Polonists don't show a finger.]] So we, as the Union of European Democrats, want to give you the floor, to you, to your parents, to you, to the citizens of the Republic of Poland, to decide what system of child education in the Republic of Poland should apply. [[Just like the platform gave it away. Cheaters...]] At the same time, we want to enable Prime Minister Beata Szydło and President Andrzej Duda to keep some of the simplest promises, of many false, false promises that were made in the presidential and parliamentary election campaigns in 2015, which is the promise of holding a referendum on important matters if almost one million citizens are signed under the proposal. [[It's too late.]] Andrzej Duda made such a promise as a candidate, and you made this promise many times as a candidate to Beata Szydło. Today and with this promise, nothing, nothing. [[How do you know?]] Therefore, as the Union of European Democrats, we will be in favour of voting as soon as possible on the motion for a referendum to take place before the holidays, and not being translated and rolled forever, as proposed by the Law and Justice Club... [[Voice from the hall: Holidays from Monday. How do you imagine that?]] ...which proposes to refer this proposal to further discussions in the Committee on National Education. [[Where are you going?]] There's nothing to discuss. Four months he was at the Marshal of the Sejm. It's all clear. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Mr President, a holiday from Monday.]] Let us give the floor to citizens, parents and teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But a holiday from Monday, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u559	Thank you very much. You have asked for the floor of the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. You're welcome, Minister. [[Applause]] [[Deforma! Deforma! Deforma!]] I'm sorry. I ask Mr Dunin not to behave like a freakish junior. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u560	Thank you very much, Marshal, for your support. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To ease these emotions, only a joke addressed to Mr Protasiewicz. This was said by an MEP, the father of a son who wants to stay in seventh grade, as he said in public. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate. Every debate about education is an important debate... [[Which you don't care about.]] ...but when the debaters use manipulation, lies, half-truths and a common lie, it is dangerous because it arouses emotions and anxiety. I'll try to sort it out in a short speech, justify it, explain it, explain it... [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] ...that is why I am pleased that we are not only here among Members who have the opportunity of young people, including those young people discussing in the Children's and Youth Sejm, to show how they are debating. Why the reform, ladies and gentlemen? This reform is among others. To prove to the public that the state is not theoretical, that the law is not just on paper and that we are not just living here and now. We must remember that next year, in 2, in 3 years, in 10 years, reality will be different, it changes, it changes very quickly and we need to adapt to it a young man who has already said, including international research, that school itself, he himself and reality to himself. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, this is also to see what you have not noticed that in the last few years 2 million children have disappeared from the education system. We have a dramatic rather than a demographic. We must build a school to meet the challenges of the 21st century, but also to care for teachers... [[That's why you're firing teachers.]] ...who, during their term of office, also lost their jobs in relation to demographics. Why the reform? [[Yeah, why? It doesn't make sense.]] Of course, it is about the quality of education - I invite the Member of the Ministry systematically and cordially - because this is what we continue to do. Quality of education, safety, small classes, one change - one change we will talk about in the financing of education - limitations of tests, discussion with young people, small schools and limitation of what the applicant was talking about, because indeed in big cities, which saved systematically on education, we have schools almost Three shifts and we have schools that count $1,000. students. She quoted one of the messengers of the words of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. [[What prime minister?]] Yeah, that's what Jarosław Kaczyński said. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, before we prepared the Law and Justice programme with him in 2014, we passed Poland along and across. All Members, all Councilmen have held... [[For three seconds, she'd go in, then she'd go out.]] ...thousand meetings to tell Poles honestly and honestly, among other things... [[And today you're scared.]] ...what education is supposed to look like. Then, with this program discussed by citizens, we held further meetings to confirm that the programme was accepted by millions of Poles a few months before the elections at the Katowice Convention. [[That's why they signed the referendum.]] Millions of Poles have decided that the United Right will rule the People's Republic and have a commitment to their voters and citizens, all citizens, to pursue their electoral agenda. [[Applause]] [[Let's verify that in a referendum.]] But of course it wasn't enough, ladies and gentlemen. When it turned out that the United Right had embraced governments, we started work, I, in the Ministry of Education, took charge of the Ministry of Education, and we started these mocked by your debates. [[Destruction.]] For the first time in the history of the discussion on education there has been no consultation, because consultations are statutory and they have taken place - little of that, all the protocols of these consultations are on the pages of the Government's Legislative Centre - there have been debates, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, how many were there, what were the opinions, what were the comments, what happened from January 2016 to 27 June 2016, when in Toruń - the Member was also there, the applicant was in Toruń - we announced the results of the debates honestly and fairly and showed what the direction of change would be. [[But you didn't ask me to close down middle school.]] In Toruń, Member, you have witnessed the applicant, even protesting. [[You didn't ask.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, 1118 messages sent by means of the form, express your opinion, 50 debates in the building of the Ministry of National Education, I keep reminding you: January 2016 - June 2016, 944 participants enrolled in the debate of experts of good changes, 2238 comments in the expert zone, 17 voivodeship debates, 47 submitted debates on education in Poland. Each of you could sign in on the website of the Ministry of Education, hold debates in the social circle, in the pedagogical council, in the council of the municipality or the district and could submit conclusions from this debate. 162 debates organised by education curators, 12 856 participants in debates organised by education curators. [[910,000. signatures under a referendum request.]] 130 meetings of the management of the Ministry of Education with local government officials, entrepreneurs, parents, teachers, school directors, students, trade unions. [[A million signatures, Minister.]] Nearly 200 meetings across the country... [[A million signatures.]] ...in which about 20,000 participated. persons. [[A million signatures.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, when we announced, there were two proceedings, first of all... [[Voice from the hall: Why the screaming?]] ...at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland on June 23rd, when the President... [[Referendum!]] ...clearly said about the transformation of junior high schools, on 24 June in Wałbrzych in a special economic zone with Mr Mateusz Morawiecki and on 27 June in Toruń we summarized, showed the direction of debates. [[You only let your own people in.]] At the same time, we said that the Law of Education will be written by mid-September. That's what happened. Before 16 September 2016 the Education Law appeared, of course, we discussed each Saturday and Sunday on the basis of the programme to be ready for 30 November in accordance with the declarations of contracts with publishing houses, so that before we could write a regulation, we could put this into pre-consultation. With the Law of Education, ladies and gentlemen, there was also a special situation. You have worked on the Education Law - thank you for this work for all the Members on the Education Committee, because it was a very hard work... [[A gallop through the Sejm.]] ...a few dozen hours of discussion on the Law of Education, where we were also able to express our opinions. [[With a request to limit Members' questions. That was the discussion.]] At the same time, in addition to working on the Law of Education, 1,500 meetings were held. [[A million signatures.]] Voivodeships and curators have already spoken to local government officials, teachers, parents, telling them what is in the Education Law. Of course, the Law of Education was subject to public consultation. This was the first time that happened at the open courthouse. That's why all these tastes are simple manipulation, because that's what consultation is all about. We discussed openly among the Council of Ministers, together we drew attention to what is important, which is why we have a very good educational law because we listened to each other. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the programme basis after the signing of the Education Law was also signed on 14 February. Of course, we owe you... I think that Members will be discussing this, all the wording on the basis of the programme is simply obsolete. They were in the public consultation and were most often the opinions of the authors of the previous basics... [[Where are these basics?]] ...which, let me remind you, in 2012, eventually ended the education of our children at the age of 15, because there was no general high school... [[What are you saying?]] ...because in the first grade we completed the fourth grade of junior high school, and for the M.A., they were preparing for a year and a half courses and completely forgot about the industry school. Mr. Applicant, industry school is a dream, it's an important element in the system. After industrial school, you can earn in a modern factory, in modern industrial halls of 10 and 12 thousand. [[Where are the halls?]] I therefore encourage you to jointly promote this industry school. At the same time, I have set up a very serious Council of Children and Youth, which discussed changes and which Council of Children and Youth is already after consultation, preparing the law itself on children and young people. There is a Member here who looks after a group of young people and will prepare a bill. [[Young people alone or the Member?]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I also owe you what you requested... [[You're to blame.]] [[You're guilty, you're guilty.]] ...a reference to the state of implementation, the introduction of reform, as well as the reference to absolute lies about teachers. As far as funding is concerned, you will allow me to use notes because this is a lot of numbers, and I would not want to mistake any element, any tens of millions of zlotys that are prepared for the implementation of the Educational Law. According to the analyses carried out, the level of funding is sufficient to cover the current expenditure of the education system in the new system and sufficient to cover current expenditure during the transformation of the system. [[Yeah, 300 million less subsidies.]] It follows from the accounting of the resources for educational tasks that additional resources will be provided to local authorities for expenditure related to the reform. In 2017 it is directly 313 million in subsidies... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Like an extra one, like a subsidy?]] ...in 2018-148 million, in 2019-243 million. [[Mrs Shumilas, a little culture.]] [[Madame, your pill will take it.]] At the same time, it is prepared so-called. budget reserve 0,4... [[Speech outside the microphone, ringtone]] [[Mrs Shumilas, listen.]] I, ladies and gentlemen, only use facts, documents. [[Speech outside the microphone, ringtone]] So... [[You're manipulating.]] I only use data. In the budget reserve of 0.4... Because here there were words of good concern that local governments were afraid that they would not have money to reorganize. [[Don't do it. Don't do it. Don't do it.]] I ask you, as far as reorganisations, accessories, equipment, sanitary facilities, lighthouses are concerned, 600 local governments have asked the Ministry of Education to set up a reserve of 0,4. All requests have been positively assessed... [[They're not gonna get paid for anything else.]] ...and that's not half of what we've prepared the funding for. [[Applause]] [[0.4% has always been, you put it from pocket to pocket.]] At the same time, I have to explain here... Because it's a long time ago and it's not true, Mr. applicant, that the local governments spent PLN 130 billion on middle school, and I raised this issue. It's just facts, it's just simple math. 130 billion PLN is the sum of subsidies for 17 years for children aged 15, 16 and 17. It's just like that, and it'd be funded whether or not there'd be middle school. [[Applause]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, of course we have PLN 129 million for textbooks, about them in a moment, we still have, if something happens... [[Where are the textbooks for the national minorities?]] ...a general budget reserve of 228 million as well as at the disposal of the Ministry of Finance - 350 million. For now, they are not necessary to run. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we need to talk very seriously about what's been going on in the last few days, about the false numbers that have been given regarding the dismissals of teachers. [[You better meet these teachers face-to-face.]] [[Voice from the hall: Quiet there!]] We are, ladies and gentlemen, the only institution... I see them every day because I'm a vacation teacher. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen... [[Speech outside the microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] We are, ladies and gentlemen, the only true data controller, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] i.e. the educational information system. [[Otherwise, you understand the truth.]] We monitor the situation in individual schools on a daily basis, ladies and gentlemen. As Members have rightly pointed out here, it seems that he is a member of the Kukiz Club15... [[Take him to the PiS.]] ...the data I'm about to tell you is still data on the first organizational sheet. And all that the applicant has said is simply not true, just as it was not true - when we introduced the so-called law. Six-year-old - when you also said that 7,000 would be released. teachers. That's not what happened. That's almost $1,000. additional jobs. [[Lies.]] These are hard data from the educational information system. [[Applause]] [[I want you to meet the teachers. Look them in the eye.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, math is very simple. [[But not for you.]] The proposed changes, ladies and gentlemen, will help to increase the number of teachers' posts. The number of branches of classes VII and VIII will be greater than the number of branches of classes I and II of junior high school. In 2017/2018 We're predicting... [[You predict, as you predicted, that no teacher would lose his job.]] ...that it will be 1800 branches more - that's what we count - and in 2018/2019 1900 branches more. This is simply a consequence of the fact that there are fewer classes in primary schools, [[Applause]] And the law of education makes it clear: you must not accumulate children in a single yearbook. They must go to the seventh grade with the same branches. [[Are you bald, crooks?]] As a result of the need for teachers to work, this figure will increase by 3000 jobs in the 2017/2018 school year and by an additional 3200 posts in the 2018/2019 school year. In total, within two years, the number of teachers' posts... [[Voice from the gym: Teachers will thank you.]] ...up 6200 jobs compared to the school year 2016/2017. [[Please declare that he will meet with the teachers.]] At the same time, on 20 June 2017 we have 14 thousand in our database. announcements. [[After one hour.]] [[Can you survive in two hours?]] At the climax, there were 23,000. job offers, including more than 5 000. It's a full-time job. I would also like to say to you here that, rather than the demographic that you did not pay attention to, one in five teachers in an independent school are part-time teachers, they are teachers in several schools. [[But now there will be 30,000 of them.]] We've noticed that fact. Even in the Law of Education we said: With a few hours, you can pursue your ambitions, you can pursue your professional advancement. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, examples were given here, among others. Mazowieckie voivodship, examples of data from Warsaw. Yes, there are 1,400 job vacancies in Warsaw. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, it will appear in 2017/2018 in the framework teaching plans an additional 1 hour, i.e. 1,100 jobs. In 2018/2019 there will be an additional 4 hours and 4400 additional posts, because the framework plans will be at 70 hours. more computer science and 105 hours. more natural sciences. With regard to the state of implementation of the new school system at the level of local authorities, several figures. 2778 resolutions were adopted on the adaptation of the network to the new school system, i.e. 98.62% all local governments. In the case of 39 local authorities who received the probation officer's opinion, 15 opinions were positive opinions, no final resolutions were adopted. We've anticipated this situation. Under the Law of Education, such solutions have been adopted. 2778 local authorities, i.e. 97.2% all local authorities in Poland have fully fulfilled the statutory obligations imposed on them in the preparation of school networks. Ladies and gentlemen, these are thousands of meetings with thousands of people attended by councillors, mayors, uncles, parents, teachers and curators. [[Everyone from the PiS.]] 80 local governments, i.e. 2.8% for various reasons it has not adopted a resolution on adapting the school network to the new system of training. They were e.g. such self-governments that had, like most in Poland, organized middle school in schools. Therefore, by virtue of the law, even the circuits did not change there, simply the name changed. In the case of 55 of these 80 local authorities, their implementing bodies have developed and made public information on the school network plan. The Act does not specify the time limit for the submission of this information. This information should be provided before the beginning of the 2017/2018 school year. 17 local governments brought complaints to the regional administrative courts about the views of the school curators. They all received positive conditional opinions. The complaints to WSA were submitted by 6 municipalities, but they adopted a final resolution on the new network. As far as textbooks and educational materials are concerned, by the end of June there will already be textbooks in all schools, because we have fulfilled our obligation. [[National minorities don't have textbooks.]] On 19 June, we had 181 applications for school textbooks, and we issued 87 such permits. Let me remind you that we are talking about textbooks for which we have 129 million. All will, of course, be free in the entire primary school system and transformed middle school. We need 16 textbooks: Class I, Class IV and Class VII. At the same time, we finish training from the program base. At the end of the 2016/2017 school year, 155 132 teachers will participate in the training. Ninety-seven thousand have already taken part. teachers. 62 regulations need to be drawn up in order for the Education Law to be fully implemented. 14 regulations were issued in the first quarter, in the second quarter we will issue 26 regulations, and in the third quarter we will issue 22 regulations. [[What about the education of national minorities, Minister?]] We can say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are all prepared to start the school year. I remind you that the school year begins on 4 September. A summary and proof will be that, ladies and gentlemen, what will happen on Friday at the end of the school year. This is a document, this is proof, this is a certificate of completion of the sixth grade, which is not a certificate of... [[But you guys don't get one with a belt.]] ...graduating from primary school, but a promotional certificate to the seventh grade. [[Applause]] And last but not least, ladies and gentlemen. You remember the 2013 referendum. And also mysteries, because we like to diversify the debate with riddles. Who said the following words: I am very grateful to all those who have signed the citizens' request for a referendum. Emotionally we are with these people, but reason suggests that this is impossible. The only question that is missing is whether the remaining 37 million people would sign, whether we want to be all beautiful, young and rich. That's the first quote. [[You were supposed to be different.]] Second quote. This referendum lacks the sixth question: Am I aware of the consequences, consequences, consequences of what would have happened if the referendum had succeeded? The author is the applicant. [[Minister, you were supposed to be different, your entire campaign was about it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not create a theoretical state or create a law on paper. [[You've already created them.]] The first stage of education law has been implemented. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's amazing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u561	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u562	Thank you, Marshal. I was corrected because the Minister was willing to mention that I was sending my son to seventh grade. I have no alternative, Minister. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: But you said your son was happy about it.]] [[You weren't in the O.R.]] As a result of the decisions you have pushed through, I simply have no choice but to limit these choices. But if I'm at the voice, then... [[Joy in the Chamber]] The minister was talking about riddles. You also said that after a good professional school, you could earn $10,000 in a factory. So I have a riddle. After which industry school you can earn 90,000. On the Board of PZU? [[Applause]] I ask for an answer to this question and a referendum. Referendum! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u563	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to say you abused the rules because it wasn't a correction. High Izbo! 74 ladies and gentlemen of the House have signed up for questions. Please, all saved - everyone, I stress - strict compliance with the time that I set for 1 minute. I'll turn off the time. [[How much?]] One minute. And I ask all of you very kindly to observe this time. [[Very good.]] And so do your friends. If there's no more questions, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Lech Dobka is the first. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u564	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I shall address the representative of the applicants. One of the fundamental legal problems of the referendum is the formulation of the question. The question does not meet these criteria, the requirements that the constitution brings. You can quote the legal opinions that were used when the Senate was debating the referendum proposals of President Komorowski and then President Duda. Moreover, on the basis of these allegations, the latter claim was rejected. I quote the legal opinion: Questions should address important or deeply socially controversial issues, be clearly and clearly formulated for all entitled, so that a simple answer can be given to them, so that they are not a tool for political manipulation by political parties. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u565	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u566	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When will the vote on the referendum be concrete? Can we expect this at this meeting, or maybe in September? [[But it's the marshal who decides.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] The school meets the challenges of the 21st century. Then why do we have to return to the system from the Polish People's Republic? You're saying that 2 million children and young people disappeared in the system. Your answer is to eliminate middle school. Are you afraid of a referendum because you know very well that since the liquidation of junior high, the compaction of classes, the meetings of a six-year-old, a seven-year-old with a 15-year-old is better than a smaller class, less numerous, with good education, in a good middle school? And finally, the Civic Platform Act, which postpones the reform by a year. Take this opportunity to make sure it doesn't end with something other people are talking about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I thought it might be... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... Court of State. [[Applause]] [[Don't scare, don't scare.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u567	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u568	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very sorry you don't have a minister. Yes, I was in Toruń, I was in the second row, right in front of me was Minister Zalewska. And after a year since June 27th - because it was June 27th - I have a question for the Minister, please tell her. Then, sitting in Toruń, in the Jordanian courtroom, did the Minister see her lying all year long? [[Applause]] Did she then know that she would lie every single day for the whole year? [[Do you know you're delusional?]] Why do I ask? Just because one of the things you said... You talked about volunteering, about empathy and helping another man, and you said that's what you're going to teach people. Why didn't Minister Zalewska ever once speak in the debates on refugees, in the debates on helping another man? Why didn't she say anything when she was in Toruń talking about volunteering and help? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And one thing, please. Put that number in your head. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Time, time.]] These are citizens who are sick of you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u569	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Cicholska. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, don't turn off the microphone because it's not right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u570	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear guests! The request for a referendum on reform of education from a formal and legal point of view is an extremely political proposal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Changes in Polish schools are necessary and have become a fact. Education reform is well prepared and implemented. However, the saddest thing about all of this is that in your political game, ladies and gentlemen, you are introducing children and young people who should quietly end this school year and go on a well-deserved vacation. This is highly unethical. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u571	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u572	In the Polish school students and teachers need stability and a sense of security. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u573	Member, thank you kindly. Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u574	Dear Marshal, Minister! If that is the case, we will ask Poles and Poles if they want such changes. That is why me and my ministers are not afraid to ask citizens. People have the right to speak on important matters, and education is this is an important issue, because it concerns everyone - that is what Prime Minister Beata Szydło said not in 2013, but before Christmas in 2016. That's what she said on Trwam TV. So what happened? Is it the right for TV Trwam viewers to speak on important matters? Today, one in three voters of Law and Justice are opposed to reform. Minister, Professor Handke is really right. You will be responsible for the crime... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...in Polish education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u575	Thank you, Member. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. [[Hands fall off.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u576	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think it would be good to remember that number of 910,000. signatures, Minister. You've been bragging about business schools. The question is, because it didn't rain anywhere, how much are these schools gonna cost? Where are you gonna get the teachers? The teachers are practically gone, so I don't know where you're gonna get them. And for a good cause, I think I'll be one of the few here in this Chamber, except, of course, Members of the Law and Justice, who are so pleased that you are introducing this reform. [[Poles.]] Do you know why? Because in 2019 you are likely to lose the elections because of this reform. [[Applause]] [[The dream of a severed head.]] And I wouldn't be surprised if the parents of those kids who aren't actually going to their dream high schools would want to get you out of this ministry on wheelbarrows. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u577	Mr Andrzej Kryj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u578	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear guests! I listened to Mr. Chairman of the Broniar, and I might even believe him if it wasn't for one little problem. In October 2015, he signed an agreement between the General Board of the Polish Teachers' Association and the United Left, which included the following postulates: the liquidation of junior high schools, the return to the 8th grade primary school. Middle school is a failed educational experiment. The same educational goals could be achieved by reforming the programme basis without changing the organisational structure of Polish education. We stress that middle school contributes to the accumulation of educational problems. At the same time, we are in favour of maintaining a 12-year period of school education, which is a guarantee of maintaining jobs for teachers. When you were telling the truth, then or today, when you were so passionately defending these junior high schools? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[When was the Prime Minister telling the truth?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u579	Mrs Katarzyna Osos. You don't have an MP? There isn't. This is Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u580	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You exchanged all those numbers with such enthusiasm. And thinking about these numbers would be worth it if you remembered the 910 grand. People. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[These are numbers.]] Numbers, I'm sorry. Thank you, Minister of Education. It would be worth remembering 910 grand. people who demand a referendum. If it's so good, there's such a great program, then why are you afraid of the referendum? You just have to do it. That's one thing. [[Applause]] The deformity of reduction, education, reeducation - somehow it slips out here in Freudian - the deformity is aimed especially at children from villages and workers' homes. You know that very well. The deformity will rule out the poorest, unfortunately. The deformity also has this fatal attribute that it lowers the social aspirations of parents and their children, and that is the worst, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what awaits us in the coming years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u581	Mrs Catherine Czochar. You don't have an MP? [[Voice from the room: Sleeping.]] This is Anna Wasilewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u582	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have information from school heads that the implementation of education reform and preparation for the new school year take place on the basis of draft regulations. These projects are due to apply from 1 September 2017, most of which concern the organisation of work in the 2017/2018 school year. In your opinion, is this the proper procedure for implementing such revolutionary changes in project-based education? Is it possible to pretend and claim that everything is being implemented in accordance with the timetable? Maybe for you, but not for school heads and self-government heads. An example is the draft regulation on specific qualifications required from teachers. Now is the time to hire people for a new school year. I don't remember ever having a school year prepared on the basis of draft regulations. I'm asking you to explain. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We demand a referendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u583	Thank you, Member. And Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u584	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Mr. Marshal! When we spoke, especially in committee, we spent a lot of time in bilingual classes. We pointed out that education reform would destroy the structure of bilingual classes, because so far, because they were in middle school, they were able to collect the best young people from all over the area. On the other hand, we proposed that two-class primary schools, consisting of Class VII and Class VIII, should be created, so that these schools could create, for example, two-class primary schools. High school. The Minister said that there is no possibility that such a solution is wrong because it leads to some form of discrimination against some children and is an unacceptable formula. So I wanted to ask: How is it possible that in Szczecin one school of the 7th and 8th classes was established, and isn't it related to the fact that Deputy Minister Kopeć was involved with this school? How is it that they are equal and equal? Why didn't you agree to put schools in the structure just to allow the best... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...gymnasiums functioning? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u585	Thank you, Member. And Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u586	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The conclusion of the Polish Teachers Association and the arguments that teachers will lose their jobs as a result of the reform is absurd, because if anyone is at risk of losing their jobs, this is the result of a very bad decision of the Civic Platform and PSL, [[Joy in the Chamber]] When against the will of parents... [[Bravo, bravo, bravo!]] ...an obligation for six-year-olds has been introduced. Then you have to... [[Eight years.]] ...was to hire more teachers. [[Because we gave extra jobs, it's our fault.]] Did you think about what would happen to them in three years? Did you think? Did you guys really think back then? Do you then, ladies and gentlemen... [[We gave them extra jobs, and you took them away.]] It's just thanks... [[Don't disturb me, Mrs. Shumilas. A little quieter.]] ...that he's coming in... [[You're throwing away 10,000. teachers from schools.]] ...that there are new proposals [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the education bill, that's the only way these teachers are gonna be, some teachers are gonna keep... [[Some, oh!]] ...work, otherwise... [[Some, and the others will lose. Thanks to you, he'll lose.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u587	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. High Izbo! Really, please, each of you has one minute to ask a question. [[Applause]] If you bother each other, I can imagine that this part of the room will now be disturbed by you or by you or Mr Michalek, who effectively... [[You shouldn't lie.]] ...to prevent the question from being asked. Please allow each Member to use... [[Mr Marshal, the Member didn't ask questions, she lied.]] ...at the maximum of this minute. Mr Dunin once again, please don't shout, and calmly, if you want to talk to me, please... [[I'm talking to the marshal.]] ... 151 - my office. Now, please allow everyone to be calm... [[I'll come in and talk to you.]] ...the question. [[He won't let the Marshal's Guards in.]] Please, Mrs Anna Białkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u588	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today there are words on the lips of Poles and Poles: PiS is blocking the referendum on education reform. The President and the Prime Minister are silent, they do not respond to the appeal of the Polish Teachers Association, parents' organisations, associations, experts, local authorities, teachers. On 20 August 2015, President Andrzej Duda said: Changes in the education system should be implemented respecting the school environments, teachers, specialists, as well as parents who know best the individual needs and capabilities of their children. The opinion of parents demanding the right to decide on the shape of the education system in Poland must be heard. It is 20 June 2017 and the need to resolve changes in the education system in the referendum. Meanwhile, PiS presents a selective approach to the voice of the sovereign. Does the Sovereign's voice count for PiS only if it's... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...a vote for a candidate? [[Applause]] [[He won't finish his sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u589	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u590	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On the basis of what research, Minister, the Ministry has carried out an analysis of the functioning of the current education system? What are the results of these studies, which entitle you to carry out such a large reform in the education system, in the Polish education system? During the entire legislative process, we have not seen these studies. To this day, we do not know what you are entitled to make such major changes. [[Voice from the hall: Sovereign.]] We ask you to disclose these data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u591	Thank you, Member. Mr Aleksander Anczynski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u592	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It should be asked repeatedly whether it is true that the proposed changes will increase the number of posts. And once again I would ask, after all, the number of branches of classes VII and VIII will be greater than the number of branches of classes I and II of middle school. This is a simple consequence of the fact that branches in primary schools are less numerous than in secondary schools. The total opposition against good change at the Polish school simply says: no, because no. I'm gonna make up my mind: never say everything you know, but always know what you're saying. However, a huge amount of arguments in favour of changes in the Polish school do not convince our opponents. I have a big doubt whether they know what they're saying. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u593	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Zietniak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u594	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As head of the Junior High School. The Polish Olympians in Racot in 2001 and 2005 collected a lot of signatures for the referendum. Signing solidarity with me and the teachers of my junior high school about his defense against liquidation. I organized a special educational debate, for which no one from the curator's office came, and a sympathizer of the so-called. A good change came with the MEN documents about the reform and found that the middle school had to be deleted. It's the first time a word like that came out. In the election campaign, to win the voters, you proclaimed the slogan: we will eliminate the middle school. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[So that's what PSL wanted?]] Right now, you want to keep your promises to your constituents, it's only a shame that at the expense of a young generation, mainly from the rural environment, and a whole bunch of teachers, as well as middle school workers. Why, if it is as good as the Minister said here, do you not want to know what the Poles think about this reform? I'm... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...for the referendum. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u595	Thank you, sir. And Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u596	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will listen to Poles - so Prime Minister Beata Szydło spoke in the election campaign as a candidate for the Republic of Poland. Today we know it was just election bullshit. Just like yesterday in Białystok, the councillors of PiS signed citizens under a project to name one of the streets named prof. Władysław Bartoszewski threw in the trash, so today almost a million signatures will also be thrown in the trash. Prime Minister! Minister! You don't listen to Poles, they don't care at all. All that matters is your interests and, of course, one sentence, the opinion of the sovereign, Sovereign Jarosław. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u597	Mr Jacek Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u598	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My point is that the referendum is unfounded because it is founded on a lie. [[Just like your governments.]] Two demistures of this lie. The first thing is not listening to Poles. The last meeting I attended with the Minister was a meeting in Chojnice, delicious, wonderful, wonderful... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[It's delicious!]] [[Was there a car accident?]] [[It was delicious.]] ...where ordinary citizens told us solutions for industry schools, among others. railway schools. Please, Minister, remember this solution that we are going to implement. The second point concerns dialogue with the young generation of Poles. Nothing about us, said the young Poles and actively involved in the consultation process of education reform... [[What kind of consultation?]] ...both the Polish Council of Youth Organisations and the Council of Children and Youth. These meetings were held all over Poland. Thank you for them, and I remind you of them. [[Applause]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: There was no one in Toruń.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u599	Thank you. I inform the High House that the bell is broken. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm very hoping I won't have to use it. [[It's misfortune!]] I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Navel. We won't make any calls. [[Marshal Kuchciński will resent you because it was such a good bell.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u600	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, after 2 months of waiting the subject [[♪ The bell ♪]] The educational referendum is being conducted under the cover of the night. I have a few questions for Minister Zalewska. How many teachers in the country will be fired or have already been fired? How many teachers will have reduced hours? We're talking more than 20,000. teachers. Is that true? How many of the teachers have decided to make up for paid postgraduate studies in the future to fill in teaching a different subject than the one in which they were educated? How does this affect the finances of local governments, which in part cover fees for education from taxpayers' money? What is the balance of the whole reform when it comes to costs? How many Poles do they want a referendum to take place? You promised to listen to Poles, so you have a chance to prove yourself. Why don't you listen to the sovereign? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] What are you afraid of? Minister, how can you not be ashamed? [[Applause]] [[Yeah, if you're not ashamed?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u601	Thank you, Member. I ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u602	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Young people today say nothing about us without us. Of course, they know that this reform-deformation will throw away their chances of a good education. This reform-deformation also causes problems for municipalities - financial, that is obvious, slows down teachers, that is also obvious. The question is simple: Is PiS brave enough to give this bad idea of deformity of education to the Sovereign's assessment? Is there enough PiS determination to keep the electoral promise that citizens' signatures will not be ground in a machine? But will the boot and the arrogance of the power of the PiS take the upper hand, and the sovereign's voice will fly in the right ear, the left will fly out, and the 910 558 signatures will destroy you in the shredder? A question for the Minister. To imagine the scale of shoes and arrogance, Minister, it is as if you destroyed all signatures, all the voices of the inhabitants of Krakow and Bielska-Biała. This is the scale of shoes and arrogance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u603	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u604	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From the very beginning of the announcements of the education reform, total opposition supported by its favourable media bombards society with false information. [[The joy in the room, the bell.]] to create an impression of the chaos and inability of this government to effectively reform the education system. I would like to ask the Minister what action she has taken in this area, because, after all, you are responsible for this resort to oppose this harmful action, and in particular what actions the curatoria has taken to dispel the widespread fear that teachers will be released from work. I think that the answer to these questions will allow both teachers and parents without fear and hope. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...good change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u605	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rząsa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u606	Mr. Marshal, except for time, one point. I categorically protest that the bell broke because the bells of Przemysl folklore do not break, and this is the bell of Przemyśl.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u607	Mr President, we did it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's already fixed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u608	Thank you. Give me 10 seconds. Today, governments have great satisfaction when in some area they cause chaos, cause social unrest or even divide Poles. That is the case with the deformity, Minister, who touched the most sensitive social area: Polish education and Polish children. You have funded the games, but Polish local governments will pay for these games. Today, Polish teachers are the victims of this spectacle, and tomorrow there will be children and young people. We will listen to Poles. That's why today, in the language of poker players, 910 thousand. The Poles tell you: I'm checking. You say it's too late for a referendum. Yeah, that's partly true, but because today's applicants were completely deluded that the first citizen wouldn't sign this bill. Unfortunately, in the evening after skiing, he stopped by the palace and signed. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You want the truth? She's included in the referenda question. So I ask: You will give Poles a chance to speak in this important... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Oh, not nice, Mr. Marshal, not nice.]] ...the case? Are you going to announce a referendum? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u609	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u610	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm the father of a sixth grade kid who's gonna meet his second year in high school in two years. There are more than 300,000 such Polish children. Minister, your reform means lowering the level of education for rural children. You know that. For children in large cities, this difference will not be fundamental, but as far as rural children are concerned, their level of education will be reduced, they will have to return to worse equipped schools, where there will be a lack of resources for the employment of the best teachers. Let's do this referendum. Let's listen to the citizens. Not about the children of Law and Justice, not about the children of the Platform, Kukiz.15, Modern or PSL is here. This is about Polish children.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u611	Thank you, sir. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u612	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The reform has become a fact and is very well prepared. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Great.]] The total opposition, together with the president of the ZNP, Sławomir Broniar, accuses Law and Justice that there is no money to reform education that everything has been dropped on local governments. Minister, is it true that additional funds were made available for expenditure related to the reform of local governments: in 2017 - 313 million, in 2018 - 148 million and in 2019 - 243 million? Is it true that these funds can be used to equip buildings and adapt them to the needs of the new structure of schools, including administrative costs? Is it true that the special-purpose reserve for this purpose is 350 million and that the general reserve from the state budget is 170 million? We do not leave local governments alone, as the Civic Platform and PSL did. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u613	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Drozd.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u614	Mr. Marshal! Minister! After your flaming speech, I ask you, what are you afraid of? Because it's the sovereign who wants to comment on your deformity. It's hard to believe you guys got so scared. You're walking like a rocket, breaking the Constitution, the laws that are in force... [[To what extent?]] ...and agreements within the European Union. You're insulting and lying, and it's weird that you're scared of almost 1 million sovereigns. Let me remind you that you were the ones who yelled out of that speaker talking about respecting the citizens' voices. So? Is there something wrong with these signatures, Minister? Or did the citizens make it worse? Minister, vote, organize this referendum, confirm that what you do and say is not just lying propaganda. Prove to us, with the help of the Poles during the referendum, that you will meet their expectations and that the reform that has been prepared is the change that they expect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u615	Thank you. And here you are, Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u616	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You promised to listen to Poles and Poles. 910,000. The Poles and Poles say, "I'm checking." [[It's already been done.]] He asks you to ask Poles what they think about the reform of the education system. Ladies and gentlemen! I have two short questions. The minister says everything's fine. I asked you a question three months ago as part of the interpellation for a school network in the municipality of Wadowice. You asked for an extension of the deadline, and I still haven't gotten an answer... [[Ha, ha!]] ...and I hear you have all the current data. [[Applause]] And the second question is, what will it look like to recruit students in two years' time to high school if today hundreds of students aren't going to get into their dream high school? In Cracow, as a result of the limits introduced by the school curator and the authorities of Cracow to the best high schools, there are 14 willing. How many people are gonna be here in two years? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u617	Mr Richard Bartosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u618	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the applicant, the head of the NSA, why he's not telling the truth. Why does he say there was no consultation? [[It wasn't.]] Let me give you an example. My city Turk, the Turkish district, one phone call, the minister came, talked to her uncles, mayors, councillors as much as she needed. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[I think it's just PiS.]] A few hours. And thank you for that, Minister. [[What do you say? What do you say?]] Second question: What's the referendum for? After all, the referendum already took place on 25 October 2015. [[Applause]] Then there was a referendum, then the Poles said they were in favour of our programme in which we said that we wanted to introduce this reform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Tell the president that the referendum has already been held.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u619	Thank you. Mrs Monika Wielichowska. [[What would you say it was in?]] [[It's a Turkish county.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u620	According to one of the MEN experts, it is necessary to verify the private life of teachers, because teachers who are laiccy, divorced or living in partnerships may have a negative impact on the attitudes of students. According to your expert, it would be helpful to verify - attention - the reporting system, because the private lives of teachers should arouse interest in absolutely everyone. It's the same expert who says the only form of contraception is a calendar. It's the same expert who says a woman shouldn't give up on the charity of sperm because she's gonna get sick, and that using a condom and intermittent intercourse cause breast cancer. [[The minister's turned red.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's outrageous. It's the Middle Ages. It's ideology, and this whole thing is crazy. And I have a question for the Minister: Does the Minister agree with the expert she employs, and is that what you will teach our children? Let me ask you this: Why is there no education in the curriculum about tolerance, acceptance of another nationality, acceptance of another culture or religion? That's my question. [[Speech outside the microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u621	Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u622	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a debate. three values: education, listening to people and respect, education, which should be a primary objective, not a political tool in the hands of the Law and Justice. Minister, how many children in two years will not get into the dream high schools because they will have 750,000. children, not just half, like it is now? Listening to people. Minister, parents ask: Are we supposed to think of the Prime Minister, the President, who told you how important our vote is? They ask children: Wouldn't it be logical to postpone implementation by one year due to such chaos and many difficulties? Listening to people who should be true, not hypocritical. And it's a matter of respect, respect for over 900,000. signatures submitted under the referendum request, but also respect for political opponents, which unfortunately did not exist today in this Chamber. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u623	Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u624	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The referendum should be a democratic tool, not a political one. [[Applause]] What is the purpose of the referendum now that the reform is being implemented when it has become a reality? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Who signed it?]] A few months of debate without the full participation of the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because you did not want to talk constructively about Polish education... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[And that's something you can do at any time.]] ...the networks of schools adapted by local governments in 99%, printed promotional certificates to Class VII, the students will receive them next Friday. Why are you trying to raise political capital to create chaos, scare teachers... [[We're listening to the sovereign.]] ...parents and students? Minister, why is the opposition destructive instead of helping to repair Polish education? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u625	Mr Michael Szczerba. [[You gotta praise me, and if you don't, you gotta keep your mouth shut. The PiS theory.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u626	It is important to thank the marshal for not excluding us for this pin, because the flag of the European Union can be shrieked in this House, but it is more difficult to enter with a pin that expresses openness, solidarity or equality. [[Applause]] If I were to sum up what this debate is about, it is a debate about political lies. The word you listened to changed through all the people and times. You lied in the morning, you lied in the evening, you lied at night and you lied at midnight. [[You're talking about the platform.]] 19 months ago Beata Szydło said here: We will talk, we will listen and, most importantly, we will hear. She promised, she cheated. [[Applause]] For 19 months we were ignored, and today Poles say: check. In Warsaw, 2 thousand. teachers without work since 1 September, 7 thousand. Teachers... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Where did this come from?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u627	Thank you, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka. [[Mr. Marshal, you're accurate today.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u628	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Judging by the course of this debate and the reactions of Members of Law and Justice, almost 1 million signatures will be replaced. In this respect, you are kind of inconsistent because you said in the election campaign that this will never happen. I'm not actually gonna ask you this anymore, I'd like to ask you about the consequences of public life, because it's very important. I don't think Mr Lech Sztuka is in the room anymore, former Deputy Minister of Education from 2000 to 2001, and I wanted to ask him as Minister of Education from that time, which elements of the reform he didn't like so much that he is now such a hot critic of the reform he was introducing. That's point one. Point two - no one, Mrs Minister, refuses a majority of Parliament's right to reform, but you are introducing a system of education from the Polish People's Republic. Exactly the same as he was before. And I wanted to ask about the consequences of Members Jarosław Kaczyński, Dorota Arciszewska, Antoni Macierewicz, Tadeusz Cymanski, Krzysztof Jurgiel, Mr Smirnow, Mr Tchórzewski - where is the consequence? And you, as a member of the Freedom Union in 1997 and 2000... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u629	Thank you, sir, for asking in the roundabouts. Mr Sylvester Tulaev. [[Game in the O.R.]] Not to talk, but to talk for sure. Please, Mr Sylvester Tulaev. There isn't. Please, Mr. Krzysztof Gadowski. [[Christopher, you've got two minutes to spare now.]] [[No, it's more like another member of the PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u630	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The school year 2016/2017 ends. He was to be calm, focused on a reliable and peaceful education of children and young people. But on stage... [[What did you do?]] ...the minister stepped in with his liquidation of junior high schools. She became the star of the school year, a year that became turbulent, full of emotions and protests of Poles. Minister, on Friday, June 23rd, the students will receive the testimonies, you just showed them, but your sovereign has already set up a censorship on April 20th, he said: Quite enough. He raised 910 grand. signatures, he said: we demand a referendum. Minister, what are you afraid of? Here, from this stand, you have repeatedly said that you consulted, prepared this reform, Poles know everything. Allow and convince your colleagues: vote for the referendum. We demand a referendum. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u631	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u632	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will also quote from Jarosław Kaczyński, quoted many times today, from 2013: We have a democratic crisis in the country. The referendum is a constitutional institution. It is difficult to imagine topics more suitable for referendum than children's affairs. The same person gave the order today - throw the signatures in that number into the basket. [[Where's the order? What are you talking about?]] But even better was Prime Minister Szydło: My name is Szydło, Beata Szydło. I'll listen to people. I'll listen to the younger and the older, the poor and the rich. That's what Prime Minister Szydło said. What's changed, Prime Minister? [[Voice from the room: And it's true.]] You didn't talk about introducing - and you don't have it included in the program - education reform in a sloppy way, without an idea, without money and proper preparation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u633	Thank you, Member. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska. [[Voice from the room: Worth waiting for.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u634	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During his speech, the President of the defender presented some of his thesis, as he claimed, with a wink in his eye. On the other hand, I will take my speech seriously. Since the collection of signatures, ZNP has been created as the only legitimate defender of the Polish school, Polish student and Polish teacher. In the face of this questionable defense, in my opinion, I will formulate a question. Where was the Polish Teachers' Union in 2008 and 2014, when the PO-PSL coalition which was then ruling closed down 1148 schools? [[You're taking it out.]] Where ZNP was in the same years when the job lost over 40,000. Teachers? Where was the relationship when, by introducing a school obligation for a 6-year-old child... [[Where's the data coming from?]] ...was the right of parents to decide that? Where ZNP was and what he did when his education went down... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u635	Thank you, Member. Mrs Lydia Gądek this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u636	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Legislative Initiative! Minister! The Minister gave us a lot of numbers here about how exactly the same project was consulted. It is interesting that, despite these numerous consultations, you have failed to take into account any critical comments that have arisen from these consultations. But even if this were to be the case, ladies and gentlemen, since this law is so well prepared, this reform - a deformity, why don't you say today: come on, let's quickly announce a referendum, do not show the total opposition, as you call us, that you have won this referendum and you have a full mandate to introduce it. Of course, you said in the election campaign that you were going to eliminate junior high, but you didn't say a word about ruining... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...programming base in all thematic areas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u637	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, please take the floor. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Zbigniew Dolata.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u638	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The reform is very well prepared and exemplaryly implemented. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the room: Reform?]] These obvious facts you're questioning the Chairman of the Defendor. [[Please, Zbyszek, please.]] The President of the Defendor demands a referendum, but the President of the Defendor has organised a referendum. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: People...]] On March 31, he organized a school strike and claimed that all teachers would join this strike because they did not support the reform. [[Applause]] And what did it turn out to be? It's 11%. schools, even less teachers started the strike. Why? Because teachers understand that this reform is necessary. [[The voice from the room: You scared.]] It is also understood by the members of the CIS, e.g. The chairman of the Koszalin branch said in an interview with the Teacher's Voice: I regret to say that some of our colleagues believe in the words of the Minister. He believes because those words are true. These words show the real challenges to which [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland stands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u639	Thank you, sir. Mrs Krystyna Shumilas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u640	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, as the Minister really says, I'm about to prove, but I have a question. Minister, you talk a lot about parenting. [[There's not enough time for you.]] Will this educational system of yours be based on how to teach children, how to lie without squinting, cold, stone-faced, or with a radiant smile? Is that what you want to teach Polish children? Do you want to teach them how not to fulfill their promises? Do you want to teach them how to promise when it's worth it? Is that what this new educational system is all about? In the media, you said that no teacher would lose his job, and in the committee meeting on 8 December you said: please, there will be no dismissal of teachers in connection with the reform. And here I have a notice signed by the headmaster of junior high... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's not ours.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u641	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Kobyliński. [[Member Krystyna Shumilas approaches government benches]] [[There you go, termination of working conditions in connection with the reform.]] [[Bravo! Bravo!]] [[Look and don't lie.]] [[Madam, it is a pity that it is so late, really.]] Madame, you have frightened the Minister. Please take your seat in the bench and don't scare. [[Bravo!]] Please, Mr Paweł Kobyliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u642	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I'm going to refer to your statement in substance. You said there was $12,000. participants in the debates and 910 000. signatures, i.e. That's exactly 75 times that. So maybe it's worth taking this larger sample for processing and putting it all into a referendum? You were talking about the quality of education. But is it true that the current system, the 8+4, you're proposing, has a worse program than the old 8+4, which is, in fact, not only that we're going back 20 years, it's still that school that was 20 years ago, we're going back for how many years? Minister, we can't just introduce solutions from the middle of the last century. The world is changing and we live differently, we move forward, we have to move forward, not look back. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This isn't the way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u643	Mr Wojciech Król. [[Member.]] Excuse me, Mrs Barbara Bartus. I apologize to the honourable Member. [[Exactly.]] I was so frightened by Mrs Shumilas that I left you out. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Who knew you were so scary, Mr. Marshal?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u644	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Because of the amount of lies that the total opposition here has said, led by President Bronisar, I will begin by thanking you. Thanks to the Minister for a fair debate with Poles. [[Applause]] [[Which wasn't there.]] The debate you started in Warsaw Gorlice in February Ub. But I also thank you for all the other meetings, for the fact that, if necessary, the representatives of the curatorium came to the open meetings with the residents of Uścia Gorlicki, with the inhabitants of Oila, and for all the other meetings that took place on this subject. On the other hand, I have a question for the president. Where were you, when the Civic Platform with PSL changed the bill, resigning from the supervision of the curatorium, and led thousands of schools in Poland to be eliminated, that thousands of teachers lost their jobs in recent years? Where were you then? And to the Minister: Do you know that today's authorities are manipulating and actually... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u645	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Król.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u646	Mr. Marshal! Minister! How the Law and Justice respond to the request of a million citizens demanding a referendum tells us a lot about what a party the Law and Justice are and what they have built their agenda on. We are also familiar with the particular attraction for the word Today, the sovereign says, "I'm checking." A million-dollar sovereign demands a referendum. If the PiS Members throw these signatures in the trash, they'll expose their lies. And the question to the Minister is, what is the value of a million signatures for you? What value do the signatures submitted under this specific reference proposal have for you? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u647	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u648	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Minister, you promised modern teaching methods. Meanwhile, many experts believe that abandoning the complex teaching of nature in primary school for physics, chemistry, biology and geography is a clear step backwards, or simply a regression. [[Why study?]] Moreover, the educational project completely disappeared from the ministerial project, because the only modern, unconventional method of teaching promoting the teaching of cooperation between students and bottom-up teaching, in which the initiative comes from children and shows their imagination and interest. Is this the modern school you were talking about in the 21st century? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u649	Mr Kazimierz Moskal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u650	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Each of us sitting here is by the will of the sovereign, and we all refer to this sovereign. I, too, have a few questions for the applicant's representative, the president. Does the President think that the groups that go to the election with the program, in your opinion, should carry out the program or not? Now you have nine hundred or so thousand votes, and in the 2015 elections there were over 5700 thousand. votes cast on law and justice. [[Applause]] The voters are waiting for these promises to be fulfilled. And that's one thing. [[Increase the tax-free amount. It was on the show, too.]] Second thing. Mr President, I have a question: are you for three years of general education in high school or for four years of general education in high school? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd just... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u651	Thank you, sir. And Mr Paweł Bańkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u652	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Many times repeated by PiS politicians and Minister of Lie, that none of the teachers would lose their jobs, were exposed by data collected by ZNP from 14 voivodships. 9,000. teachers will lose their jobs from September 1st, almost 22,000. He won't have a full-time job. Question, Minister. Please indicate the number of teachers who have left for compensatory benefits, i.e. the so-called. Bridge pensions, in fear of this deformity, for the period from June 2016 to December 2016. I also ask you to answer the question: Will you and the politicians of Law and Justice listen to the Sovereign's voice and vote in favour of a referendum? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u653	Thank you. Mr Radosław Lubczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u654	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The reform introduced assumes that the directors of the new primary schools to which secondary school will be included will be current primary school directors. What about middle school directors? Their term of office is interrupted during the term of their term of office, the principals of primary schools - no. [[Game in the O.R.]] I understand it's written down, but what's gonna happen to it? Why are they... [[It's written.]] No, no... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: It is written.]] But I haven't asked you a question yet. Can I ask you a question? [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Okay. I'm sorry.]] Can we do that in those primary schools to which junior high will be included, just announce the competition and win a better principal, or is it the principal from elementary school or the principal from junior high? Why should the headmaster of the elementary school be the headmaster of these combined schools from the vending machine? [[Voice from the hall: Because this is how the Sejm voted.]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u655	Mrs Teresa Wargock. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u656	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A minute is a very short time, so a short comment on what happens. Ladies and gentlemen, exactly a year ago in Toruń, the objectives of the reform were announced. The state as a total opposition, the Polish Teachers' Union, introduces chaos in the school. [[We? State.]] Absolute chaos you bring in. [[Game in the O.R.]] The whole agenda of the reform is being fixed for one day. You scared there wouldn't be a programming basis in time. They're here. [[What grounds, what grounds?]] You scared the local governments wouldn't make resolutions on time. They've taken it. [[And the national minority?]] You scared there wouldn't be any money for local governments. [[And there isn't.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] 1,400 million is money in local governments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Ask the local government.]] You will continue to praise this reform, ladies and gentlemen... [[You can't count.]] ...and you'll be ashamed of the referendum. [[Then who's gonna be ashamed?]] It shouldn't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to be held at this moment. Enough chaos at school. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u657	Thank you, Member. And I ask for the floor of Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk. Oh, in writing. Mrs Urszula Ruseck. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u658	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr Broniar's speech is nothing but empty words and pure hypocrisy. Mr. Chairman, when are you reliable? Before the 2015 elections, when did you sign the agreement between the SGP and the United Left? It is already here, but it is worth recalling this content: Junior high school is a failed educational experiment, middle school will contribute to the accumulation of educational problems. In 2013, when an amendment was announced, such a cosmetic one, the Teacher's Charter, you called for a strike, and at the same time you employed 40% in schools run by ZNP. teachers at the so-called: junk deals. Do you fight for the good of Polish education or for your career? Do you want to cover the failed March strike proving the weakness of the Polish Teachers' Union? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u659	Mr Grzegorz Furgo.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u660	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Minister said, quote: I will look at the referendum as a well-organized political job. That's 910 grand. The people who signed are those who do not support this reform of yours. This isn't about politics. The Poles did not accept the mode in which you are making changes. There wasn't enough consultation. We have chaos and fear of a mess and the loss of teachers' jobs. The referendum, you said, is Mr Kaczyński's electoral commitment, but what can Jarosław Kaczyński know about raising children or their education. He has purely theoretical knowledge. Practice is the daily hard work of children, parents and teachers. Politicians should help by preparing the law calmly and thoughtfully, not by overturning the whole system so that the theorist is right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u661	Thank you. Mrs Bernadette Krynick.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u662	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the representative of the national referendum. Why is the question in the referendum: are you against the reform that the government has been introducing since 1 September 2017? Why is this question so broad? Why are you lying? Why didn't you ask the Poles directly: are you against the liquidation of middle school? [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: We are just asking.]] That would be a fairer question. You did not ask this question in this way from political calculation, because more than 60% of society does not want such a school. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: I do not want this reform.]] Your question is part of the action of the total opposition. For you, referenda. It doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. You're offering this question a plebiscite. In fact, you ask whether the Poles are behind the Government of Law and Justice or not. It's your dream to be against it. [[Applause]] [[That's what you're afraid of.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u663	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u664	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I must say that I hope that the Kukiz Group15 will be ashamed of this debate today because there is not a single person out of a group that has always talked about a referendum. In fact, there's almost no one from the very beginning. That's what referendum support looks like. [[Applause]] Minister, I have one question to ask you personally. Has anyone ever come to your office with signatures, some parent who's been collecting signatures among his loved ones and asked to take them into account? It happened to all of us. Our parents used to come to us and collect signatures everywhere. Those were really days of hard work. They asked us to take care of it. This isn't about referring to what happened. This is about how you guys feel about what you're doing. And answer the question of what we have to do, what we all have to do to make this referendum happen. It's a simple question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u665	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u666	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Does this reform allow to restore the teaching of history at school, so that young Poles can learn identity, give them a common cultural code to feel like Poles, even if they are outside our country? And for those who so appeal to parents who are to take someone out on wheelbarrows, a quote from one letter that arrived to us, we have five children: I am convinced that many parents also welcomed the announcement of the liquidation of junior high schools with relief. After all, the decision to create them over the years has been criticised. As a family, we were especially happy to announce such a change. The oldest daughter is in the sixth grade and the prospect of moving to middle school for months has been spending our sleep. [[He's not gonna be in that elementary school now, he's gonna go to another one.]] And to Mr. Broniar, I have a question about what he was doing when the Platform with PSL eliminated teaching patriotic education, history in schools. What was the NSA's relationship doing? Why didn't he protest then? [[Applause]] [[We weren't destroying anything.]] [[The voice from the hall: You tell such foolishness that it is a shame.]] [[Voice from the room: It's crazy for you, as your boss said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u667	Thank you. Mr Marek Grunkles.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u668	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I have three questions for Mr. Sławomir Broniar's applicant. First of all, is it true that the Polish Teachers' Union has been alerting at least since September last year that the proposed changes that are to enter into force are changes that parents refuse to accept, and thus that the Prime Minister misses the truth, saying that the applicants are late, because the application is being examined only now, and previously the parents allegedly did not protest against the planned changes? Secondly, is it true that the Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, assured that there would be no dismissal of teachers? How does this apply to the data on dismissals and reductions in the number of posts you mentioned? And thirdly, is it true that the changes presented in the programming bases in the opinion of experts reverse our children and young people in development, and the government introduces only chaos and instability in education, while the costs are passed on to local governments and taxpayers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u669	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u670	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We hear very often that you lied, that you lied, unfortunately it also confirms very often, but perhaps you are not always lying, perhaps you are either uninformed or not so, because you believe what some of the ministers present. Here's an example. Well, today's local press, the Małopolska press in Cracow informs that on the curator's pages there is an announcement about teachers' admissions to individual schools. Teachers come in, and the principals are surprised because they don't have any jobs. When they tell the parole officer to take it off, the parole officer says, "Let him hang for a while." That's probably the job requirement you were talking about. It's just one big lie. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u671	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u672	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Pomerania, about 200 educators will be affected by dismissals, job limitations - even more. These are the effects of a good change in education. The most difficult situation will be in two years when middle school is closed. The exemption will then affect not only teachers, but also the administration and service of schools. The reform of education of Minister Zalewska will result in the departure of young teachers who are actively undergoing promotional degrees. It's a huge loss for children, parents and institutions. Because they're not appointed, the easiest ones to slow down. The question to the Minister: Is that what the PiS is about, so that the most vibrant and creative young teachers are discouraged from working at the very beginning of life? Why is the Minister still lying about the layoffs? You know they're slowing down. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u673	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u674	Minister! How do you live for 2/18 jobs or 4/18 jobs? This is a very important question because thousands of teachers will be affected by the reduction of their jobs as a result of your reform. These teachers are gonna have a job with a new school year, but they're not gonna really get paid. 'Cause how's a small fraction of a job gonna survive and support a family? A total of 31 476 people today will lose their job or part of it in the education system as a result of your pseudoreform. But this is not the end of the worries, because we all know very well that in the next school year part of the jobs will be artificially held, because everyone is looking at your hands. And in fact, the scale of the problem of these redundancies will not be known until two years later, because in the next and next year additional thousands of teachers will say goodbye to school work. What do you say, Minister? And how do you make sure that no teacher will lose his job as a result of your reform? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We demand a referendum. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u675	Mr Rafał Grupiński. [[Voice from the room: Every second.]] May I? Yes, you can. [[Not everyone's gonna make it.]] [[Voice from the room: Not everyone so capable.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u676	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The attitude of the PiS state is best demonstrated by its attitude towards the applicants and by preventing Mrs Dorota Łobod, the representative of the parents, from speaking on the issue of referendums. [[Applause]] Since many things have been said, I would like to ask you about one thing, rather about the future right now. Namely: The Polish Language Council has very critically assessed the entire programme preparation and the fact that the Polish school turns into a school of reproduction, into a school in which, not with understanding, but for the embodiment of knowledge, you are actually building a program today. So I would like to ask, will you, at least in the future, listen to the comments of bodies such as the Polish Language Council or many scientific associations or universities to change and improve this program? And it may be worth remembering the old proverb that anyone who does not listen to his parents - this also applies to the situation with Mrs. Dorota Łoboda - this [[♪ The bell ♪]] He'll listen to the dog... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u677	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Anna Nemś.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u678	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have the impression that you wrote this speech six months ago. And it doesn't matter what we say here in this room doesn't matter what parents, teachers, and children say. You don't listen, you don't hear. But complacency doesn't disappear from your face. Why? Because, as one of the PiS Members said in this speaker, the president is the mayor, the mayor will fire the teachers. He's the president, he's the uncle, the mayor's gonna listen to his parents, and he's gonna be involved in their trauma. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the message from the Minister for Teachers? Even for a few hours, you can make your dreams come true. And what message is there for parents? We're the only real data controller. [[Right.]] What about young people? Don't be afraid! [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're running an election program... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u679	Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska will speak this time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u680	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's easy enough in this pseudoreform to hit the weakest and smallest groups. You took away the students of the disabled individual teaching in the schools. [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] You're not interested in groups of national minorities at all. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: What about the education of minorities... [[Voice from the room: Terrifying parents.]] ...nationals? Does the reform cover it or not, because there has been no consultation, no dialogue? Two months before the new school year, there is no basis for programming, no textbooks. Today on the committee, I heard that the textbooks have national minorities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] produce on its own. [[Where are the minority textbooks?]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] So this is the reform for minorities. You don't like minorities...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u681	Thank you, Member. Thank you. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u682	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From my previous term, I remembered you as an outstanding windmill specialist. Today, listening to your speech, when you manipulated the data when you gave us imaginary numbers when you accused us and the applicants of lying, I had the impression that you were trying to make a windmill out of us. So tell me if your opinion is a lie. After all, the Ministry of Development, that the programming basis is a randomly selected set of topics? Are authorities, scientific groups, professors of various fields lying, who alert that the curriculum does not meet the teaching requirements, and can even pose a threat to children's mental health? What textbooks will be prepared on your knees if they're even on time? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[If they're even there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u683	Thank you. Mr Artur Dunin. Here you go, sir, finally the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u684	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Actually, your deformity, that's what you should be called, because what you're doing is a deformity of education, chaos into education. [[A little culture and respect for another man.]] I'll tell you what, my younger son should be going to junior high right now. He was proud of it, it was his nobility, he's finishing elementary school, he's going to middle school, he's entering the next stage of his life. Unfortunately, you took it from him, took it from him. Why? I have a question about why you're taking this. What kind of idée fixe do you think you're taking away young people's next stages of education? My older son grows up to be a great man. He graduated middle school. He had no problems with violence, etc., which you talk passionately about all the time, repeats and scares people of. There's one more thing I want to say to you. What's going on tonight is scary. It's terrifying that we're having such an important discussion at this hour. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] We demand a referendum! [[Don't yell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u685	... He's farting. [[Mr. Marshal may not break the microphone.]] Shut it down. Mr. Arthur Gierada.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u686	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Applicants! High Izbo! Minister! This referendum is the last chance. This is the last chance for our children, but this is also the last chance for you. When people reject the reform proposal and you respect it, you can save your skin. Otherwise, I predict that in September you will be resigned and the image of Jarosław Kaczyński will also be destroyed. What are you afraid of today? Are you afraid that your parents realized that the schools weren't prepared to introduce more children into the same buildings, that it would result in what the principals said, that the lessons wouldn't end at hours. 15 but at 3 p.m. 18 and 19, or is it that with this number of children in a given school there will be the same gymnasiums and gym classes in the hallways? Minister, today you have a chance to verify among people whether you have support and democracy gives you that... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u687	Thank you, sir. [[But you should let it go to the dot, not turn off the microphone.]] Mr Adam Korol. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u688	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In April 2017, Pomeranian school curator Monika Kończyk decided to annul the resolution of the President of the City of Gdańsk in 2014 to establish a Positive Primary School. Aram Rybicki. Three years of school activity, the work of students and teachers can go to waste, because in fact this school will not. If the harmful decision of the Pomeranian school curator is not changed by you, the school certificates of all the students who received the promotion to the next class and who graduate from school will simply be invalid. What about the promotions of the teachers who worked at this school over the years? Question is, when are you gonna take care of this case? 1100 students who attend this school, and 100 teachers who work there, are looking forward to your decision. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u689	Thank you. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u690	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I'm ashamed of you. I'm ashamed of you because you insulted the 910,000. The people who signed... [[Shame on you.]] ...under the referendum initiative presented by the chairman of the initiative, Mr Bronisz. He's got a right, too, just like 900,000. the people who signed up for this initiative, expect the referendum you announced. 31 thousand. teachers' dismissals or limitations, such are the numbers in the organisational sheets. Why don't you listen to your parents? What are the real arguments regarding pseudo-consultation? I mean, it's 910 grand. signatures should be taken into account. Minister, this is a souvenir of this difficult debate for you to finally come back to your senses. [[The bell, the applause.]] [[Krystyna Skowrońska approaches government benches and places a pin bearing the inscription "We demand a referendum" before the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska]] [[Well, Mrs...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u691	Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska... Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, seems to have crossed the line... [[Voice from the room: Definitely.]] ...which should not be exceeded, Madam, and I regret to draw your attention. [[What did she do?]] [[Voice from the room: Shame, shame.]] Please, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u692	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Kids don't matter to you. Parents don't matter. Today you told your teachers that they could pursue their ambitions by having a few hours at school. For your reform being criticized by your mayor Błaszek, he was awarded a prize, a comprehensive financial control and public procurement in the municipality of Błaszko. I hear you're supposed to meet him in a few days, but I'd like you to come to Piotrkowska soil as promised. A lot of months ago, you promised. I've talked to you about it ten times to keep an eye on the teachers, the parents, the uncles who will reap the fruits of your reform. Do you know what the Minister told me when it turned out that everything was approved that there was no more excuse? That at these meetings, people would speak badly and whistle. Member, I'm asking you to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Come over there, please. Please come back. [[Applause]] [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Insinuations. Insinuations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u693	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr. Piotr Cieślinski. The later, the worse. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u694	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The long-awaited day of trial has come. Here is the government and PiS Members voting in favour of the referendum today, and they have a unique opportunity to prove that, as promised by the election campaign, the Sovereign listens always and everywhere. Prime Minister Szydło promised: It will soon be such a time that each of you will be respected and listened to. I guarantee you that we will listen to your voice in referendums. Dear Poles, today a million citizens and we, representing their voice, speak with a common voice: I am checking. Today, the sovereign in the spotlight, in front of the whole of Poland, says: you promised that if we choose you, you will listen to us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...we call: we demand an educational referendum. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u695	Thank you. Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u696	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Lie, manipulation, shoe and arrogance - this is how the sovereign summarizes the Minister's speech today. I'm afraid most people at the Seym Gallery think the same after your speech today. [[Voice from the room: There's no one here.]] [[Congratulations on your perseverance.]] What's more, the sovereign says, "Don't let the PiS lie." That's why I'm asking you these questions. Is it true that you escaped in the side entrance, guarding the BOR, from a meeting with local government officials in Łódź? [[Right!]] Isn't it true that you didn't come to the board meeting in Gdansk? Is it true that at the last minute you canceled your participation in the Social Dialogue Council? Finally, I would like to ask you if it is true that in 2007 and 2012 the increase for teachers was about 50% in total. And today you're offering charity at inflation level. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u697	And as the last question, Mr Killion Munyama will ask. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u698	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday, on the pedagogical board, teachers found out that if the teacher wanted to work at the second school, he would have to have the approval of the head of the first institution, and if he did not get it and took the job, e.g. For a few hours, at another school, the principal will be able to fire him. Isn't that a restriction on human freedom, a teacher... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: It is exactly the opposite, the teacher gets the right to decide about himself.]] ...freedom so far provided in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? We all know that teachers in Poland are poorly paid and often, in order to live a decent life, they simply take up work in several institutions. Now they're getting rid of it. Is the Minister planning large increases for teachers so that they can feed their first-time families? The reform is usually carried out to improve, repair. Your deformity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The work is tearing everything down. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u699	Thank you very much, sir. Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, all Members have asked questions. In view of this, I ask you to take the floor of a representative of a group of citizens of Mr Vincent Sławomir Broniar. You're welcome, Mr. Agent.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u700	Would you like to say, "Dear Marshal, how about some sandwiches?" It is the first fifteen, but we are extremely pleased that the debate has such a turnout. [[You shouldn't eat at this hour, it's unhealthy.]] [[You were the first ones to shove those sandwiches in.]] [[This is Mrs Pavłowicz.]] I would like to point out that, in fact, regardless of the timing, this discussion has many values. First, it shows that if someone - regardless of the facts - has something written down, even if 50 people say it in front of him, he has to say it anyway, because nothing meaningful can come up with. [[Applause]] That's what happened to the Democratic Left Alliance. If you would like to read the agreement that was concluded with the United Left on 15 September, if I remember correctly, in point 2 it is clearly stated that the contracting parties, among others. The United Left and the ZNP will defend the existing school system. I recommend it. Each of you, of course, has the right to its own opinion, but this opinion should be accompanied by basic knowledge and not just malice. Secondly, if we are talking about the fact that there was such an all-embracing debate and discussion, I will point out that this discussion was basically nothing, this debate was about nothing, because when the Minister started with this initiative, it was only about the liquidation of junior high schools, and the continuation of this discussion brought more and more new solutions, only that the legislative process, which you know much better than I did, lasted 14 days. The Senate showed a stachanist approach to work, because 700 pages were analyzed for 3 hours. And Mr Dolata proposed at the committee meeting to limit the time in the discussion to 1 minute - perhaps in order to give a voice to everyone. I would also like to point out that the Minister says that he is the owner of full knowledge. Minister, if this knowledge and this honesty are the same as the wage increases declared to us, it is freaking out, because even your acolytes, even your solidarity, are disappointed by the existing situation, and I will not mention another trade union. If there were voices stating that there was far-reaching aid to local governments, that these billions were the amount that local governments would spend - because this 130 billion was mentioned here - I would remind you that for 17 years, even if the subsidy was on average PLN 25 billion per year, it would give almost PLN 500 billion. So it is clear that not only did local governments spend this money for these purposes. This is the huge effort of local governments, which we see in the naked eye, driving through these villages. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that contrary to the statements of universal support of six large local corporations is absolutely against it. So I don't know what that level of satisfaction and satisfaction comes from. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that industry schools are based in fact on the basis and documents developed in 20122015, but I am thinking about it myself, and I would like to ask the Minister to tell us in September if there is no way to reverse this idea that you are implementing - because I can honestly say that I do not believe that you have invented it, I think you are doing it - both to the High House and to us - how many students have actually gone to the industry schools. I came to one of the voivodships and asked a question about the level of acceptance of industrial schools and it turned out that it was poor, but I would like to find out for my own well-being how many students would choose an industry school. I would also like to ask those who watch this lately and listen to it, who have received these statements, so that they will send to the Minister - even with a blackened name - their statements, because we are not talking about speculation, we are not talking about any estimations, and you know it best in this Chamber, as well as I am, that you are the owner of exactly the same information that has to do with it. If that is not the case, I wonder what the curators are doing, because the organizational sheets had to be reviewed by them. So I'm paying attention. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: The President has access to the data of the educational information system.]] No, we just have, we've bothered about it in every municipality -- well, not everyone -- and that's a problem, because every other municipality is giving worse information -- and we asked for sheets to collect these collections. I hope you'll be able to answer the teachers, those who lose their jobs, what to live and how to live. [[They're from primary education.]] I once said in one radio station that I'd be ready to bring you a bouquet of flowers if it turns out that you're right that no one's lost their job. It's not like that so far. [[Go to the florist's.]] I also want to point out that math is simple, but I don't think it's easy for everyone, because even if it's 6,000. people will get a job, as you say, it will be less than 1% We have doubts about success, as you say. Those who had comments about the attitude, position of the union, the president of the union, because even some of these names did not want to pass through the throat and used the term "the company," and my name is Sławomir Broniarz, I will point out that 1997, 1998 was the time when we were supposed to join the European Union in a few years' time, and that the synonyms of those times were gimpuses pulled, drawn by tractors, that there was no money for everything. If you disagree on this, ask your local authorities what their attitude was, what their opinion was, what they said when Minister Handke was implementing this reform. The relationship draws attention to the fundamental interests of both then and now. The key is the programme basis, and then we drew attention to the need to change everything that concerns the teacher education process in terms of quality and quantity. Today we'd be in a different situation. However, we were also allergic to the fact that we did not eliminate high schools, not to eliminate technicians, and several prominent law and justice activists with President Kaczyński were against it, they voted in favour of the liquidation of high schools, the liquidation of technicians and thought that this was the best solution. So, when I ask one of my fellow Members whether I am in favour of three or four years of high school, I will say that the duration is not of particular importance. The important thing is who and what the youth will teach. Today we have a completely different reality. The child, leaving the classroom, checks the knowledge of a teacher who has ceased to be the only communicator of knowledge because of everything that happens even on the Internet. So a change in the software base would also have to be used to lose weight in order to give these children time. Notice that we are not able to increase the child's weekly number of hours in an unlimited way, because at some point we are going to go to a dead end and parents are going to protest against it. We want to point out that it does not seem that there is a certain axiology in Law and Justice here, because if the Minister says that this reform is intended to show that the state is not theoretical, it seems to me that by trying to push this reform against this million people, and not only, also against its own voters, who are in many cases opposed to this reform, you are trying to show that you have power, exercise this power with a firm hand, and regardless of public opinion, you will achieve this goal. Atacs to me from the point of view of the circle or the epithets that I am a politician, I do not treat as a dishonor, because if we look at politics as an action for the common good, then the politician is anyone for whom the welfare of another man is a superior value, unless someone confuses Plato with Machiavelli, then we really differ. I would also like to draw attention to the following. These debates, which the Minister refers to, were sometimes just debates with their own. The question was why you weren't at the WRDS meeting in Katowice, and you had time to go to a closer school in three hours. You have every right to do so, but let us not say that the debates were common, for example. representatives of the Polish Teachers' Association were not invited to the Łódź debate. Each debate organized by the Ministry of National Education, both in the MEN and in the field, was attended by representatives of the ZNP. Why? Just so we know, so no one's accusing us of talking about things that we don't have a clue about. It was not allowed to ask questions, there was no agenda, you put it in an awkward way not to say: the stupid situation of your own employees of the Ministry of National Education, who did not know what to do with this group of 50 teachers who came and discussed everything, but not about reform, not about middle school, because that was not the goal. Some of your employees, in fact, didn't even know why this group of people came and who was to lead this meeting, what you knew best about what it looked like. We regret that the President did not speak in the debate, because, when he met without a small jump with protesting parents, he was a supporter of a completely different educational model, he was rather a proponent of the slogan three times four, rather than what is happening at the moment. To sum up, I quote Minister Handke: It is human to err, but it is foolish to be stuck in this foolishness. I would appeal to you to have the civil courage to say: there are things that are underdeveloped, it is worth going back, it is worth taking advantage of this proposal, which is worth taking advantage of everything that we are talking about here, also the state, with great concern for the Polish school, just so as not to destroy it, because it can be a problem for many of you in two years' time. If one of the Members refers to the letter of the mother of five children, she says that she is so pleased with the proposed change, then I would like this mother to write a letter in 2019 in the context of the fate of her own children. The problem, Minister, is that you won't pay for your mistakes, just pay the children, pay the local governments, pay those who, in colloquially speaking, are guilty of God's spirit, and this will be a fairly expensive experiment. I therefore appeal: let's go back, let's start from the beginning, let's start from the first class so that we can say that we actually did something right once. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u701	You're welcome. The Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u702	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I would like to answer your questions very precisely, although the questions should be addressed to the applicant, that is the principle. Out of courtesy and respect for you, I will answer these questions. However, I would like to point out that there was not a single word in my speech about the referendum. The Ministry of Education is responsible for the education system, children and teachers, therefore, since the Education Law has been signed, this right must be implemented. I'll say it again: nothing's on paper. [[Applause]] This is what you think - we are implementing the rules, we are not ignoring these rules. So it's not true that I spoke about the referendum. The High House will decide whether the referendum will be or not. Of course, I respect each signature with great respect, although I have the impression that many have been used cynically. That's one thing. [[What a cynical approach.]] Secondly, I would like to remind you that there was no law and justice in 1997 and therefore the rule of law and justice cannot be invoked against the United Right. You often speak about the author of the reform from that time, 1999. I will no longer talk about the fact that the justification was on four pages, that no one discussed anything and there was absolutely no research and no planned money. I would also like to remind you that Minister Handke has resigned. Out of respect for my predecessors, including the one who tried to beat me up, I'm trying to avoid... [[That's not true. There was no such thing.]] ...avoid references to specific names. And it falls here, ladies and gentlemen, and this is the wording of the applicant: he chooses different kinds of debates. Mr. President, I was at your office in the Polish Teachers' Union at the debate, and a question was asked about middle school. I honestly said four-year-old high school. Anyway, I was there when you were all over ZNP, and your entire headquarters was posted, because without asking anyone's opinion, you just shut down the school for which you are the lead authority. [[Applause]] There were specific wordings here, so I will refer to them. A statement saying that the speech was written six months ago - I ask you, how can you write a speech six months ago, since I refer to the data of June 20, which is just a moment ago. [[That's what it sounds like six months ago.]] And, indeed, as far as availability is concerned, I am doing this in full responsibility just to stop the effects of demographic depression. There's still a long trial ahead of us and... [[The fly flies through the room.]] I'm starting to get a little scared of the fly, I'm sorry. [[Joasi?]] Therefore, all of these activities, all of these calculations are very precise. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen... [[Another one's here.]] ...it's really that the applicant doesn't have access to the educational information system - a few people in the Ministry of Education do. And that is, only and exclusively, the only reliable information. It is not true to say that... and I actually think that it is very harmful, because it has gone through the media - there is absolutely no way to limit individual teaching. We teach inclusive education, we teach that the child can grow together with his peer group when he has special needs, and that as much time as he needs to be with his peers in class, in school, and as much time as he wants to be at home. The same with regard to national minorities - simply not true, even a meeting took place three weeks ago with heads of schools run by national minorities. There was a question about September 1st that it was unprepared that someone would be surprised by something. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who knows the education system knows that by the end of the school year, we are prepared for September 1st. Of course, the upper secondary schools for 2 years, I hope, later secondary schools, are recruitment and there is generally more employment, more in-kind tasks. It all depends on what children decide on where they want to continue their education. There was a question about Kokoszki, I'm in constant contact, I even talked to her last Friday because it was June 15th when we agreed to make a decision, but because we asked for additional documents, we have a month more. Nevertheless, I am doing everything I can to make this decision by day 23 so that parents and students simply learn about it. My declaration is clear... [[This month, right?]] ...children, teachers, parents can't get hurt. I saw the company, with presidents, directors, teachers and parents, even though I was in Gdansk. They cannot bear the consequences of gross irregularities that have occurred on the part of the local government. [[Yeah, it's the local government's fault.]] That is my directional decision, and I am doing everything I can to acknowledge the effects that have already taken place, for the children's sake, for the teachers' sake, for the parents' sake. It is here, ladies and gentlemen, the wording concerning some of the local authorities that have not made the transformation. Very noisy self-governmentman. It was said that he was excluded from the Law and Justice because he rebelled against education reform. No, ladies and gentlemen, he's been disfellowshipped a long time ago, and his troubles are due to his conflicting counsel. They can't make any decisions. Indeed, his parole officer shows him all sorts of solutions. I'm in contact with the residents and my parents. They're following, they're saying that the mayor wanted to liquidate five schools, which we obviously didn't agree to. More of your questions. The Qualifications Regulation. That's not true. I signed them on 24 May 2017. It is an adaptation to the law of education and at the same time ensuring that teachers of sixth-grade primary schools from the vending machine and act are teachers of eight-year-old school and that these qualifications of teachers of secondary schools are maintained and maintained. There was a question about Wadowice. Yeah, I signed it. I didn't even sign it, but the answer came out. That's where we just needed additional documents. You're talking about liquidation all the time. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Liquidation - we don't say that. We're talking about a transformation, ladies and gentlemen. [[You don't talk, but you do.]] If you don't mind, we have data, too, we control it every day. First of all, I remind you that most junior high schools - more than 60% - she was with primary schools, sometimes there were even preschool units there. So a little over 2,000. It was self-contained. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, only 6% it will be extinguished and it will be in those local governments who have insisted that for political reasons they do not adopt resolutions on the school network. But we're there. It's to be reversed. We already have two local governments who, although they did not have time to pass the school network, came after two months, made such transformations that we talked about, which are good for teachers, parents and students. Unfortunately, this will only enter in 2018. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, as regards all these concerns and concerns, I would like to remind you once again that I sent twice letters to teachers and to directors, the last one I sent in May, asking directors and teachers, obliging them to ask each parent at their last meetings who will be at the meeting, whether he knows everything about the reform, knows where his child will be. I didn't get any feedback that something had happened. You're talking about a double yearbook. There's absolutely no problem with that. We've got it counted again. [[Of course.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the educational information system is ruthless. It means that he sees all the children, all the teachers, all the rooms, so we can count quietly, not forecast. I hope so, because you have also voted in favour of the Education Information System Act, that we will not finally have three educational information systems since October, just one modern one, where we will be able to see each student after PESEL. We'll reduce that, too, and seal the system. [[You guys were protesting.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, you are rightly concerned about local governments. Yeah, we take care of local governments. We planned the money for them. [[You're reducing the subsidy.]] Let me remind you that the 600 local governments that wanted to come forward and need money to convert, all of them have positive opinions. [[How much did you cut off the Łódź?]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] When it comes to six-year-old money, I remind you... [[She put it in her pocket.]] [[How much did you cut off the Łódź?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u703	Don't disturb me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u704	I am about to respond to a very aggressive Member, but I want to finish my thought. [[You can't listen to this nonsense and lies.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u705	Mr President, I would like you to count on your words.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u706	I'll tell you, six-year-olds are in education. This is PLN 1.5 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u707	I have already warned the Member once today. Be careful. Mr Shumilas has already had a chance to do with the school what she did.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u708	There is also additional money for equalizing opportunities, for valorization. In response to the aggressive Mr... [[Inquisitive.]] ...I inform you that we have spoken to the President of Łódź. He admitted it was... [[Game in the O.R.]] I haven't had the pleasure. I spoke to the president. He's the vice president, but it's customary to say Mr. President. Therefore, I spoke to the President, who agreed with me that they were having problems with demographics. 6,000. children disappeared from the education system of Łódź. That's why there's trouble. At the same time, the Chairman of the Defendant asked... [[How much less money did the boat get?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u709	Excuse me, Minister. Mr Dunin, I draw your attention. You're disrupting the Sejm's deliberations, interrupting, disturbing. [[Then tell the minister the truth.]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... [[Are you excluding me?]] ...bringing you to order.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u710	Enough with the facts, sir. I'm just based on facts and numbers. ...what happens when it comes to young people's decisions and declarations, whether they go to high school or to industry school. Luckily, we're already 50-50. In Wielkopolska, where I was on Monday, it's 60 to 40. It's also a big challenge. It's a long story. I think we will have another debate because we have just poured the foundations under the industry school, which you have finally changed the programme base in 2012. It is a great respect for teachers, directors and self-governments, that they continued at these vocational schools. [[For this you have rewritten the 2012 basis.]] One of the messengers talked about volunteering. Yeah, that's the job that comes directly from the article. 2 Educational Laws. I'd like to inform you that tomorrow we have a big volunteer gala at the Royal Castle. The whole process of encouraging this volunteering has caused... I just hope that there will be no such situation that you will try to influence in any way that we will be happy with the children, we will be proud of them. At the same time, as I declared at the beginning of the school year, I volunteered myself, among others. I'm an honorary blood donor. I think that's how we have to support our children, show them that it's worth being with others. At the same time, I would like to say that they also encourage this, because here several Members are discussing the basis of the programme, because 20% program bases we implement the project, not in additional classes, but in lessons, to implement very modern program bases. I'm not going to address all these issues, I'm just going to give you an example of computer science in classes I-III. In the old program base in Class III you had to learn how to use a mouse. We're talking about the basics of programming from the first grade. Besides, we have already adopted a resolution at the Council of Ministers meeting, which obliges the Ministry of Digitalization to adopt the law on broadband Internet by 1 September so that in 2019 we have broadband Internet in every educational institution. Declarations have already been made, I hope that we will be able to implement them, that for 10 years in Polish schools we will not have to pay for the Internet. At the same time, I would like to say that only a dozen percent of schools in Poland have broadband Internet for the 21st century and 25% Junior high schools have natural offices. Professor Turski, Chairman of the Council of the Copernicus Science Centre, who spoke, probably does not know that the Foundation for the Development of the Education System has just decided that it will support the Copernicus Science Centre, will spend money on universal natural offices so that we can distribute another government program. This is a set of nine labs, among others. One at my request, which concerns smog. [[When and who's gonna drive this thing?]] At the same time, there is a project on active tables in the public consultation. It's a few hundred million zlotys. Together with local authorities we will create the 21st century in Polish schools. We're talking about upbringing, diversity, tolerance. One of the messengers sitting here in the courtroom said that we talked about tolerance 27 times. That's what the program's basics say, which pay attention to upbringing, to upbringing to value, to tolerance. As far as the restoration of history is concerned, I would remind you that in its defence in 2012 citizens were starved, who were honoured by me by a medal from the National Education Committee. [[Applause]] They participate in consultations and consult on the basis of history. Therefore, history itself, ladies and gentlemen, is a proof of our diversity. How wonderfully you can teach the history of Poland, showing its diversity, ability to function, ability to live with different cultures on a daily basis. [[Without Lech Wałęsa, huh?]] Of course, he does not realise that, in the case of the basis of the programme of history, we have made sure that the issues of solidarity are accurately rewritten from the old programming base in which Lech Wałęsa was not present. [[Applause]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that there are wordings here that I consider to be a huge abuse. It's a huge shame about what's been going on in the system over the last few years. We can't keep talking, repeating and listening to the fact that middle school was supposed to be a window to the world, that it was meant to be for the most talented. [[They were, and they are.]] Absolutely, ladies and gentlemen, every school in every village, including small schools, is to have broadband Internet, a well-educated teacher, multimedia boards and free textbooks. [[What does that have to do with middle school?]] So, ladies and gentlemen, this is how we look at school.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u711	Mrs Shumilas, you, too, are interfering with the proceedings. [[I know it's an hour. 1.10 and some people don't know what they're saying.]] Do you know what you've been saying for hours? I don't think so. We've been watching this for a couple of years. [[I do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u712	It is not true that something will happen to bilingualism or sports classes. We are strengthening this bilingualism. The ambassadors thank us for this bilingualism. One of the messengers has returned... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, I want to answer your questions very precisely. I could have said that I would have sent it to you in writing, but out of respect for the debate, I would like to respond precisely to your comments. One of the messengers, talking about Szczecin and about the fact that we saved one middle school, used the wrong one, because it's a middle school in Szczecin, which has turned into a primary school, is 5 years old, like every junior high school converted. In the justification of experiments, because they have outstanding mathematical achievements, 71 subjects volunteered to use the experiment. I encourage everyone to treat schools in this way as well. [[The milk spilled.]] The school you spoke of is a primary school that has an opportunity, such as: Bilingual school, additional recruitment in Class VII. [[A circuit without one child.]] At the same time, I ask you, as regards quotations concerning, among others: Upbringing to family life, please take a look at these program basics. That's where it's about tolerance. If you talk very often about sexual education, on page 99 of this regulation you are talking about sexual education. I would advise you to separate, not personalize what is in the text, in the content, and focus on what follows from the provisions of the software bases. [[I asked the expert about you.]] If you are asking about kindergartens and crowds, I would remind you that in 2012 there were 200 thousand. more children in kindergartens and there were no major problems with organizing preschool places. I hope that citizens have finally understood the responsibilities of self-government. I'll remind you again. Local governments have a six-year-old education subsidy, which is why we're not talking about reducing education from 9 to 8 because it's 9 because a six-year-old is learning. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, for each child who is outside the subsidy, although this is the own task of the municipality, there is over PLN 1300 of the grant which, if local governments do not have their own kindergartens, they can share with private institutions. I remind you that in the case of Warsaw I have contact with non-public institutions which declare that they can open any kindergarten at any time and are able to secure, ugly, sorry, colloquially, 42% places in kindergartens. You just have to share public money. If, ladies and gentlemen, you are asking about reading, because here there is a question, then yes, indeed, children have stopped reading, then you can see in all indicators, indications, that's why from the first class, ladies and gentlemen, we start reading out loud and we will read. Despite the only comments regarding high school, the software base from the Polish language, the only ones that appeared, that there are as many as seven books to read, here we will be consistent. We want the children to read at least seven books in full. Fragmentation of reading, ladies and gentlemen, revealed itself to us during the discussion on this year's Matura, which stems from the old basics of the program, that you could not read any book and you could pass your Matura. Evolution, not revolution, is a sign of the fact that a real M.A., which will not only... [[You're not responsible for this year's graduation.]] ...tested, but above all will test knowledge and allow us to write an essay, we will have in 2023, because this is how evolution is done. [[Luckily, you'll be gone by then.]] I don't know what the applicant has against the Crosses, but we're talking about what you call archaicism - for example. Sienkiewicz's archaicity is spoken of, not of archaicity, nor of the Green Hill, although the period is very similar - it is the building of cultural code, that the grandfather - I hope you will experience it with your grandchildren - can read similar things, tell similar fragments and laugh at similar jokes. This is not an exclusion from modernity. You have to have a certain basis to be able to make use of the cultural goods, the literary goods of modern times. As far as I'm concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I'm still trying to find... Oh, the last thing I want to do is forget, ladies and gentlemen, about improving a professional teacher. Here in full agreement with the applicant, although I count on the support of the union, because the President rarely attends meetings of teams where we discuss very serious matters, about the bill, about funding education, among others. changes to the Teacher's Charter, where, ladies and gentlemen, e.g. After so many years, we have noticed that the penny of the teacher, the psychologist, the speech counselor, the supporting teacher should be permanent and not dependent on the will of the self-government, because we want the teacher, the professional advisor in each school and also - already appears in the seventh grade and there is money for it - the methodological advisor. Yes, at the end of June... [[Or maybe the benches for these older children first.]] ...with the dorms, the rectors, and the universities, we will present to you the assumptions of a new model of professional improvement of the teacher. Yeah, they're the key, we have to take care of them. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I have referred to your questions which, I think, should be addressed to the applicant, but I have done so with the utmost pleasure. The United Right keeps her word. What she announced in the program, she's doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u713	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u714	The number of sports gymnasiums and sports championships and junior high schools with sports wards and sports championships as of 30 September 2015 was 933 schools, the number of sports wards was 2632, and the number of students was 59 284. In response to my interpelations, you write: In the algorithm of dividing the educational part of the general subsidy for local government units in 2016, annexed to the regulation of the Minister of National Education of 22 December 2015 on how to divide the educational part of the general subsidy for local government units in 2016 (Journal of Laws). U. z 2015 poz. 2294) the weight P17 = 0.20 for students of sports branches and the weight P18 = 1.00 for students of sports championships was taken into account. The value of the scales P17 and P18 takes into account the specificities of sports branches and sports championships. For 2016 additional funds of PLN 134 million were charged to students of sports branches in the educational grant and P18 was charged with the weight of PLN 66 million. The total amount is PLN 200 million, which gives on average for 1 year of secondary education less than PLN 67 million. To these amounts will be added 1 hour of physical education lost by young people on a national scale - about PLN 70 million - which results from the liquidation of secondary schools, where young people had 4 hours of physical education, and in the 4th year of education in secondary schools according to the reform young people will have 3 hours of physical education. In light of the above, I ask: 1. 2 years of sports education, which, as we all know, will not be recreated in primary schools and the loss by young people of 1 hour WF totals about PLN 204 million. How and for what will MEN use this money for? Will funds of PLN 70 million - 1 hour of WF - be transferred to MSiT to complement young people reduced by the reform? 2. If sports schools do not have sports branches using resources for 1 year of secondary education - about PLN 67 million - how will these funds be used? Can these funds also be transferred from the MEN budget to the MSiT budget? In total, it is about 135 million. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u715	We will proceed to the vote on the motion for a referendum in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 20 June. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Andrzej Kryj makes his first statement. Mr President, how about in writing? You're welcome, because it's late. Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel. Madame, maybe in writing for the late hour? It will be the same, Commissioner. No? However. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u716	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the beginning of the process of the education changes related to the liquidation of the secondary school, the Minister has ensured that no teacher in relation to the reform will lose his job. Unfortunately, in many schools across the country, all young teachers will lose their jobs, almost all who are employed for short-term contracts. This may lead to the absence of trainee teachers or contract teachers in many schools. Is that what your minister meant to discourage the most dynamic and creative young teachers from working at the very beginning of their lives? After all, this causes the departure of those teachers who care most about children, parents and institutions, because they are those teachers who can provide our children with the most dynamic development. In Pomerania, teachers will be fired by around 800 teachers, job limitations - even more. In addition, more than 400 teachers will not be renewed. These are the effects of a good change in education, a new network of schools and circuits. What's the black statistics gonna be at the end of August? School moods are bad today. Many school heads inform teachers about the termination of their employment contracts. The most difficult situation will be in two years when middle school is closed. The exemption will then affect not only teachers, but also the administration and service of the school. The reform of Ms Zalewska's education, as I said, will result in the departure of young teachers who are not appointed teachers. This is such a bad direction for our children's education, and we all care. Our children, our future generation, should be competitive in the world when it comes to peers all over the world. And in this way, through this reform, education loses its competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u717	Thank you very much, Member. The statement will now be made by Catherine Czochar. There is no Member. Mr Kurzepa therefore.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u718	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Let me share with the High House the experience of the last Sunday meeting at the Marian Shrine in Rokitno in the diocese of Zielno Góra and Gorzow on 18 June. An extraordinary event, a very spiritual event. Of course, it is quite clear, connected with the patronage of our Blessed Virgin of Rokitna, who has the nickname of the patiently listening. This event is related to the fact that the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith of the Vatican granted the diocese such a privilege of celebrating the patronage feast on June 18th. It was related and it is also related to the fact that it is the 20th anniversary of the visit of St. John Paul II in Gorzów, 45th anniversary of the establishment of the Gorzow diocese and its reorganisation in 1992. The ceremony was honored by the cardinals. Gerhard Müller, Prefect of the Vatican Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith. There were also our hierarchs: Bishop Antoni Stankiewicz, retired Dean of the Roman Rota, Archbishop Andziej Dziega, Metropolitan Szczecin-Kamienski, many other noble priests, but also our bishops: Bishop Senior Adam Dyczkowski, Bishop Paweł Socha, Bishop Stefan Regmunt and our official Bishop Tadeusz Litynski. I would like to tell you that there is such a fact connected with the fact that Bishop Tadeusz in an incredibly modest way, while at the same time recognizing the work of the Holy Mother patiently Listening to Rokitna as a certain continuation of the work of his predecessors and the fruit of his bishoply ministry. The Blessed Virgin Mary of Rokitna, I cordially invite you all to her. She's patiently listening. As you look at the portrait of the Blessed Lady, she has an exposed ear that very, I would say, is so meticulously inclined towards us. The faithful of the diocese of Góra and Gorza loved her, trusted her. A multitude of pilgrims came to Rokitna on June 18 to thank her for her patience and for her motherly listening to our concerns for today and for tomorrow, our current hopes and future ones. And sometimes I think, being here in the Seym, it would be nice for Members to sometimes want to go to Rokitna and entrust Mother patiently listening to various things that we cannot deal with here. Because, you know, it's like when you look her in the face like that, it's in such contemplation and silence that you also find an answer to all the things you come to her with. At least I've experienced it. And since we, Lubushus, know its power, therefore we invite you with conviction, come to Rokitna, where Mary patiently listens. Listen to you, I give you my word, just as she has listened to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u719	The statement will be made by Mr Piotr Pyzik. Aren't you going to put it in writing? How many people are waiting for you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u720	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you. I would like to present to you a little known history of the beginnings of one of the best cancer treatment facilities in Poland - the Institute im. Maria Skłodowska-Curie Centre for Oncology in Gliwice, and to pay close attention to the almost forgotten figure of Mr Stanisław Bylina, who first in 1939 in Chorzów, and finally in 1946 in Gliwice created the seed of an anticancer institute. The future director of the institute was born on 8 May 1903 in Unii. There he graduated from elementary school and started his junior high school. The outbreak of the First World War and later of the Polish-Bolshevik War caused the study to continue in Vienna and finally submitted a maturity exam in Poznań. At the university there, he graduated with the result of a medical degree aimed at him, and less than a year later he received a doctorate in all medical sciences. As an assistant at the university surgical clinic, he also took biological studies. In 1930, he learned how to fight cancer in London under the guidance of the pioneer radiotherapy Stanford Cade and in Stockholm, Paris and Brussels. In 1932, he founded the first modern cancer center in Poland and a cancer ward in the Poznań clinic. A unique study was conducted in the field of X-rays, radiotherapy, and histopathology. Soon the facility became the first comprehensive oncology unit. In 1938, he took action to create a cancer clinic in Upper Silesia. Brackets hospital in Chorzów was chosen for its headquarters, and Dr. Stanisław Bylina was the organizer and future manager. Several days before the Germans entered, the opening of the institute was already within reach. After mobilization from 1 to 25 September, he continued to serve in the lead surgical command of the seventh corps district and then improvised group of the Polish Army Dubno. After a failed attempt to break into Hungary and capitulate the group, he was captured. During the occupation he first served in a POW hospital and then in a hospital organized with the consent of the German authorities of the clinic in Jarosław. In 1940 he became a soldier of the ZWZ-AK Jarosław circuit, and his clinic became a hospital of the Rzeszów suburb. Despite helping many underground soldiers and fleeing prisoners and Jews, he escaped arrest. After the Red Army entered, it was directed to work in the established public health service. In February 1945, he appeared as a soldier of the Home Army and went to Poznań, where he was recovering from the diseases he had suffered during the German occupation. In the spring of 1946, after writing a memorial to the Ministry of Health on the reconstruction of the anti-cancer institute in Chorzów, Stanisław Bylin was entrusted with directing the organization and movement of the institute, placing it in Gliwice. The site was inaugurated in July 1947. Thanks to his efforts until the end of the 1940s, the Gliwice Institute was equipped with state-of-the-art equipment and equipment. Since 1948, as part of the progressive Stalinization, Director Stanisław Bylina began attacking, first building a political chase around him, and in 1950 falsely accusing medical errors and mismanagement of the facility. Although the accusations were absurd, the case continued until 1953. In the meantime, he was fired from the institute and was ordered to work as a laryngologist in the work clinic in Leszno. After the so-called. thawing in 1956, he was stopped being persecuted and allowed to move to Warsaw, and nine years later he was allowed to return to the surgeon's specialty. Stanisław Bylina died on June 26, 1976 and was buried at the Military Cemetery in Powązki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-20-sejm-44-1.u721	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 01 min 33]]
