ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u1	Resume session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're coming back... [[Talking in the O.R.]] High Izbo, we are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on National Tax Administration and the Law on National Tax Administration. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 666 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 68 senators voted, 47 votes against, 20 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on National Tax Administration and the Law on National Tax Administration. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Guarantees and Guarantees granted by the State Treasury and certain legal persons and certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 665 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 72 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Guarantees and Guarantees granted by the State Treasury and certain legal persons and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Corporate Income Tax Act. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 664 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 74 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Corporate Income Tax Act. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. The Health Committee has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments, and a minority of committees request an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 660 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 54 votes against and 24 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 649 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on criminal offences and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. The Legislative Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 651 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 75 for, 3 against. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and some other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for an amendment to the bill; the Senate... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[But I'm not talking to a marshal.]] Then don't disturb me. [[Excuse me.]] Then don't apologize and don't disturb me. Then you apologize, and before that, you're in the way. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it proposed an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 662 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. Amendment 1 aims to enable the cooperative consortium to be joined by legal persons who are active in the field of social and professional reintegration of persons at risk of social exclusion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and some other laws. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the law on amending the Waste Act and some other laws. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 671 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted together. They aim to clarify the procedure for the recognition of an object or substance as a by-product, indicating that such recognition takes place by means of an administrative decision issued by the Marshal of the voivodship in agreement with the Provincial Environmental Inspector. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 54 for, 3 against, 19 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 75 were in favour, 1 was against, and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. We begin to consider item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 The year of the 100th anniversary of the Catholic University of Lublin John Paul II. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators, is included in print No 461 and in print No 461, and the report is published in print No 461 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet, because it's very disturbing. Excuse me. I'm asking you to refrain from talking.]] I have the honour to present the position of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 with the year of the 100th anniversary of the Catholic University of Lublin John Paul II; printing No 461. I would like to remind you that the Senate Marshal sent this draft resolution to the Legislative Commission on 29 March 2017 in order to consider it at first reading. At its meeting on 18 October 2017, the Commission examined the draft, amended it and now proposes that the Senate adopt a single text of the resolution. Before I read the text of the resolution, as a graduate of this university, as well as a former employee of the Department of Religious Literature Research KUL, I would like to stress that the Catholic University of Lublin... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry... but you guys are talking out loud, and I can hear what you're saying, and I can't hear what the senator is saying! Well, excuse me... if you want to talk, you can go out, talk in the back. There you go.]] ...I wish to emphasize that the Catholic University of Lublin John Paul II is not only one of the oldest universities in Poland, but in its 100-year history it has become a very important centre of thought, science and Catholic culture in Poland, gaining recognition in Poland and abroad, and affecting the shape of Polish science and culture, remaining faithful to the values contained in the motto Deo et Patriae. The university has prepared over 100,000 graduates for active presence in social, political, economic life as well as for the service of the Church. KUL is a recognizable brand not only in the country, thanks to which the university has played a great role as Polish ambassador in the world for years. Currently she cooperates with nearly 200 foreign universities, implementing joint research projects and exchange of scientific and teaching staff. During his visit to the CUL on June 9, 1987, John Paul II placed a task before the university, saying: University! Serve the truth! If you serve the truth, you serve freedom, the liberation of man and nation, you serve life! The university strives to be faithful to this challenge, presented by the Holy Father, who, as a lecturer of the CUL for 24 years, co-created the academic community and significantly influenced the shape of the university. But, of course, the list of characters associated with KUL, which have been registered on the pages of Polish history, is very long. They're on it, among other things. B. Fr. George Popieluszko, servant of God card. Stefan Wyszyński, dozens of Polish bishops, and among politicians among others. Wiesław Chrzanowski, Zyta Gilowska, Janusz Krupski, Alicja Grześkowiak and Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. And last sentence: the history of KUL is an excellent illustration of the fate of free Poland, because the university was founded in December 1918 as the first work of free Poles, and for almost 100 years of its existence it shared the difficult fate of the homeland, being even in the most difficult times of the island of freedom. I would like to remind you that during the communism period, people were hit by the CUL, who were unable to study elsewhere because of their views, and in March 1968 Fr. Rector Vincenty Granat took the stand on the side of students arrested by the authorities and decided to accept students relegated from other universities. I will now read the text of the resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2018 The year of the 100th anniversary of the Catholic University of Lublin John Paul II. The Catholic University of Lublin John Paul II is one of the oldest universities in Poland. His idea was born in February 1918 among the Polish people in St. Petersburg on the initiative of Fr. Going to Radziszewski, the rector of the Spiritual Academy there. In July 1918, the appointment of the Catholic University accepted the conference of Polish bishops in Warsaw with the participation of the apostolic nuncio Achilles Ratti. The first rector was appointed Fr. There goes Radziszewski. Lublin became the seat of the University. The first inauguration of the academic year took place on 8 December 1918. The university's motto became the slogan of the Deo et Patriae. The chancellor of the University became the current bishop of Lublin. An important event was that the University obtained its own building (1921) at Racławicki Avenues. In December 1922, the Lublin University Society (since 1928 called the Association of Friends of KUL) was established, whose aim was to spread the idea of Catholic universities and financial support to the Allergy of Lublin. The material base was stabilized thanks to regular financial subsidies from the diocese and income from the hr Foundation. Potulicka. In 1934, the Scientific Society of KUL was established, which led a series of scientific publications, organized (since 1935) the famous Social Week. In 1938, the Institute of Higher Religious Culture was established. The university collaborated with national as well as foreign scientific centres. Under the Seym Law of 9 April 1938, he obtained full rights to grant PhDs and to carry out habilitation in all departments. Excellently promising development of the University (new departments were planned: philosophy, medicine, mathematics and nature sciences and journalism school) interrupted the outbreak of World War II. The Germans seized the building of KUL to a military hospital, robbed and destroyed the university's achievements, imprisoned 15 professors, mass-arrested students, hauling them to forced labors in Germany or concentration camps. Despite these repressions, the University conducted secret teaching. After the liberation of Lublin from the German occupation, KUL resumed its activities on 21 August 1944 as the first university in Poland after World War II. The work at KUL was found by many professors of the University of Stefan Batory in Vilnius and the University of Jan Kazimierz in Lviv. The most significant feature of the University in the years of the Polish People's Republic was the concentration of effort on teaching work. In this way KUL trained the staff of intelligence, which Poland was not feeling badly after the decimation of this social group by German and Soviet invaders. Unfortunately, the Catholic Church and the CUL were an obstacle to the communist authorities, so various methods were sought to stop the university's development, to reduce its impact on society. To this end, the Potulicki Foundation was requisitioned and nationalised, the admission of candidates for the first year of study was limited, and the academic degrees had to be acquired at state universities. It has often been delayed for several years or even several years to approve the habilitation. Foreign travel has been blocked. Professors were tried to pull away from work at KUL, offering them better paid jobs at state universities. Graduates of CUL were denied employment in state institutions. The CUL was treated as a profitable institution, obliging it to pay taxes. The situation of the University improved at the turn of the 1960s and 1970s: scientific staff increased, many new cathedrals and institutes were established, especially at the Faculty of Theology, and contacts with many universities outside Poland were established. During the period of domination of the totalitarian system, despite various pressures and persecutions, KUL was faithful to his task. He saved his objectivity in science, cut himself off from the distortion of facts and from the false interpretation of reality. The workers courageously confessed to their Catholic beliefs. After 1989, the era of freedom for the Catholic University began. On 14 June 1991 the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland passed a law on the granting of grants from the state budget to current teaching needs and scholarships for students according to the rules concerning state universities. On 4 April 2005, the Senate of KUL adopted a resolution on the change of name from the Catholic University of Lublin to the Catholic University of Lublin of John Paul Second, thus giving the University the name of her longtime Lecturer and Professor. On 2 December 2008, as a result of the President's legislative initiative, the Parliament of the Republic of Poland granted KUL such funding as all Polish public universities. During its 100-year history, KUL became one of the most important centres of Catholic thought, influencing the shape of Polish science and culture, gaining wide recognition in Poland and abroad. Today, KUL educates nearly 18 thousand people in 41 fields of study. It is a university open to the civilization and scientific challenges of modern times. Next to theology, philosophy, social sciences, legal sciences and humanities, mathematical and natural sciences are developed, and students are prepared for full and responsible work for the good of the Homeland and the Church. In view of the above, the Senate of the Republic of Poland establishes the year 2018 as the year of the 100th anniversary of the Catholic University of Lublin, John Paul. II. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u3	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Czesław Ryszka to represent them. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask a question? [[Senator Bonisławski.]] Mr. Senator Bonisławski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u4	Mr. Marshal, I would just like to ask for a change, because there is a slight stylistic error: there is an expression of the first inauguration. The inauguration is always the first. So that simply the inauguration, without the word "first." It's in one of the first paragraphs. [[First inauguration...]] [[Self-correction.]] No, but... Thank you. [[The first inauguration in free Poland, in December...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u5	Yeah, but that's not a question, Senator. If this is an amendment, it must be notified in writing. [[Did I interpret it correctly...]] The question is, did the senator correctly interpret the expression "first inauguration"?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u6	The point is, of course, the inauguration is always the first, as the beginning of the academic year... [[But first...]] ...but there may also be the first inauguration at the university, which is starting to operate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u7	I see. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator, and then Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u8	If we're talking about the inauguration of the school year, she's not always the first, there might be another inauguration...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u9	But, ladies and gentlemen, we're not discussing this, we've cleared it up. We're asking questions. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'm very pleased with this initiative, but I have a question. Haven't you considered a point that would be worth it? I'm speaking hypothetically right now. To include in the text of this resolution the performance of Father Jack Woroniecki? He wasn't the first rector, he was the second, but his contribution to, say, the Catholic social thought, his achievements as a philosopher might be worth taking into account. And was there a discussion at committee meetings about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u11	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the university had a lot of outstanding professors, so if you wanted to exchange them one at a time... For example, Rector Słomkowski, who was a very outstanding, famous figure, of course also Father Jacek Woroniecki, Dominican, also Rector Vincenty Granat, Servant of God, candidate for altars... Well, there were plenty of such characters. This resolution is already too long, but we didn't specifically shorten it to show the size of this university. But if it were to be supplemented by famous and outstanding characters, a small brochure would be created.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u13	Thank you very much. Senator Rusiecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u14	Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, as a graduate of the Catholic University of Lublin, I share the opinion of President Ryszko. The CUL had many outstanding, wonderful professors, not only philosophers, but also brilliant theologians. The best example is the Professor, the Servant of God, Vincenty Granat, who was mentioned by the President of the United States in connection with the beautiful ancient Mothmielov. I think this resolution, which includes a whole bunch of rectors, professors, is so shaped as to honor and honor everyone. [[Thank you. I just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u15	As a matter of fact, I'll just notice that that wasn't a question. But thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u16	The servant of God is also Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki, creator of the oasis movement, outstanding figure, professor of KUL, creator of the pastoral institute. Yeah, well...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u17	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the project. This reading would only cover the vote. It will be held together with other votes at the end of the Senate meeting. We begin to consider item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the 2018 Year of Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising 1918/1919; the draft resolution on the establishment of the 2018 Year of the Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising 1918/1919. I would like to remind you that these projects have been submitted by the Senators' groups and are contained in prints 579 and 601 respectively. The committee's report, prepared in accordance with the Rule. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, see print No 579/601 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Robert Gawl, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the establishment of the 2018 Year of Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising 1918/1919. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Commission took note of two draft resolutions which had been submitted to the Senate. One project is dated July 27; under it were signed by the Senators of Law and Justice. The second project was signed by the Senators of the Civic Platform on September 22. There were 2 authors of these 2 projects, Senator Florek and I, so we decided that there would be a codification of the project and there would be one project. For us, for the Greater Poland, this resolution is particularly important. The establishment of 2018 The Year of the Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising by the Senate of the Republic of Poland is an expression of appreciation of the contribution of Wielkopolska to the construction of the common Republic. At the committee meeting, the discussion did not last long. They spoke: Senator Florek, who spoke about the anniversary celebrations, Senator Zdrojewska, Senator Żaryn, who made a minor amendment, and Senator Libicki, who thanked him for having adopted the common text of the resolution, and said with some regret that the authors had got along so quickly, it was due to the fact that they came from Wielkopolska. Because the committee on 4 resolutions discussed 2.5 hours, and ours was discussed in 10 minutes. [[What do you mean, "our"?]] [[Voice from the hall: Wielkopolska.]] Ours, the Greater Poland, is how I speak. We want it to be a resolution adopted by the Senate as a whole. The Commission unanimously adopted the draft resolution. Now I'm going to read you the text. In Wielkopolska, it was never accepted that the land which was the cradle of our stateship should be located outside the borders of the independent Republic of Poland. During the period of partitions several generations of Poles struggled to maintain the speech and faith of the Fathers, Polish culture and property. This organic effort was called the longest war of modern Europe. When the Polish state began to rebirth on 11 November 1918, Wielkopolska remained under the Prussian partition. The test hour came on December 27, 1918, when the Greater Poland Uprising broke out. They were speeded up by the arrival of Ignacy Jan Paderewski in Poznań. The Great Poles made excellent use of their skills and international situation in order to achieve the desired goal of independence. The first commander of the uprising, appointed by the General Council of the People's Council, was Major Stanisław Taczak, who organized the insurgent forces. After him, General Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki became the high-level commander at the head of the uprising. It turned volunteer formations into a strong, regular army. Thanks to military and diplomatic successes and the support of France, whose symbol for the inhabitants of Wielkopolska was then Marshal Ferdinand Foch, on February 16, 1919, peace was signed in Trevira. Wars were completed, and the Land Recoveries confirmed the Treaty of Versailles. The insurgents of Greater Poland were involved in many fights for Polish Silesia, and the perfectly organized and equipped Wielkopolska Army in the war against Bolshevik Russia made a huge contribution to the victory. The insurgent experience, as well as the acquisition of equipment, mainly aircraft, served the entire Polish army. The Wielkopolska Uprising 1918/1919 is an example of the victorious armed act, which resulted in political success, which had a decisive impact on the shape of our western border. The resulting military force and its participation in the struggle for the borders of the Republic of Poland is a beautiful pattern of dedication to the common cause, which was the sovereignty of the entire Homeland. Senate of the Republic of Poland in the Year 100. The Anniversary of Independence of Poland pays tribute to the insurgents of Wielkopolska, establishing 2018 as the Year of Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising 1918/1919, and asks the state and local authorities and civil institutions to promote the knowledge of the victory of Wielkopolska as a common link of our Polish identity. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. At the end of this report, I would like to say that the resolution is also an expression of... the answer to the requests which flowed to the senators' offices from the councils of the municipalities, the councils of the counties, the local governments, concerning the year of commemoration of the Greater Poland Uprising. So much for the committee's work reports. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Robert Gawl, print number 579, and Senator Piotr Flork, print number 601. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. And I'd like the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the senator and the committee for the smooth handling of this very important resolution for us. Ladies and gentlemen, on 11 November 1918, the dream of Poles came true after 123 years of Russianization, Germanization Poland returned to the map of the world. However, within the borders of this free Poland there was no Wielkopolska, there was no Wielkopolska, the land on which the Polish state was born. We remember all the National Assembly from last year, which took place in Poznań on the occasion of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism and the beginning of the Polish state. We were all in this together, it was a very important event. The Greater Poles had been preparing for the Greater Poland Uprising for a long time, so that the Greater Poland lands would return to the map of Poland. Organic work, basic work, what was in that period before the elections... Marcinkowski, Cegielski, Chłapowski, Jackowski, priest Wawrzyniak As the senator said, the arrival of Ignacy Jan Paderewski directly... and on 27 December the Greater Poland Uprising broke out. Ladies and gentlemen, we in Wielkopolska attach great importance to this uprising, but not only in Wielkopolska. We come every year on the next day, or December 28th, to Warsaw, where celebrations related to the Greater Poland Uprising are held under the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. Lech Kaczyński participated in the round 90th anniversary of the Greater Poland Uprising, which was celebrated at the Wielkopolska Uprising Monument. On the round ninety-fiveth anniversary of the Greater Poland Uprising Bronisław Komorowski. We've got another 100th anniversary coming up. Wielkopolskies, especially all local governments and Wielkopolska voivodship, together with the Marshal of the voivodship, have been preparing for this anniversary for a long time. I have a schedule for the celebrations that will take place throughout 2018. There's a lot of positions here. Everything starts as early as January with the start of the 100-second film about the uprising of Greater Poland; then it will be the baptism of varieties of flowers Stanisław Taczak and Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki gave them the name; then there will be an aerofestival of air shows dedicated to the Greater Poland Uprising, combined with a presentation of the model of the German aircraft acquired by the insurgents. I would like to remind you that on January 6, 1919, the insurgents of Greater Poland captured the airport Ławica in Poznań. They took over German planes, and then they raided Frankfurt. It was the beginning of aviation in Poland. It started on 6 January 1919 in Sławica in Poznań. There will be many, many other festivities: Picnic Insurgents in September; regional action of 100 trumpeters for a hundred years of the Uprising; premiere of the music project; Warsaw premiere of Paderewski's opera Manru in co-production with the Great Theatre in Poznań; issue of the post stamp and culmination of the celebration, which will take place, as always, on 27 December under the monument of the Wielkopolska Insurgents. And traditionally we will finish this celebration again in Warsaw before the tomb of the Unknown Soldier. There are many points within this programme. Here thanks should be given mainly to the local government of Wielkopolska Voivodship, which mainly bears the costs and takes all these activities related to the anniversary. But also many local governments have addressed the senator, me and all senators and Members of the Greater Poland land precisely to celebrate the 100th anniversary. They also made such resolutions as we are making today. In many villages of Wielkopolska these celebrations will take place. Once again, thank you very much for adopting this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to speak with Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We Great Poles are proud of the deeds of our ancestors. Saving this great effort of Greater Poland, which was saving Polishness and regaining independence, on the pages of Poland's history it was not easy for us. We had to pursue it ourselves, because somehow it happened that the same year 1918, which was a great victory of Poland, was eclipsing this important act, which was the Greater Poland Uprising. An uprising that incorporated the reborn land of the Republic of Poland into the Prussian partition. It didn't come easy. I think that through the resolution we want to mention all those who gave their lives for their homeland in the uprising who died in it, who were injured. These were heavy, fierce buoys of many towns and therefore this great action and effort of the insurgents of Greater Poland should be noticed. And we are glad that this resolution adds our brick to commemorate the Greater Poland Uprising. It wasn't an accident. It really was. As the previous speakers mentioned, the result of another war, which has been going on for decades, in a way that turns out to be extremely important for Poland for the future, not only because we saved our own identity, but because we were building citizenship. We were able to claim our own within the law that was then the possessors. In order to create Polish schools to create Polish libraries, Polish organizations, Polish cooperatives. The Greater Poland Uprising is like a beautiful, though unfortunately red, bloody flower, which grew on the soil prepared for decades by the great Greater Poland, already mentioned here, and which we now want to show by this resolution, because the memory of this event must be an important part of the celebration of the anniversary of regaining independence by Poland. In Wielkopolska these celebrations are properly treated as blocks, committees of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence and committees of the 100th anniversary of the Wielkopolska Uprising combine their efforts. And that's what the historical dimension is. Finally, we see it together, as one process through which Poland was really Poland in its entirety. For this, it would be necessary to bow down to the Silesian insurgents. Together we created a new Republic, which later opposed the Bolshevik Uprising. I am pleased with this resolution, although it must be acknowledged and remembered that the joy of joining Poland did not concern all lands where the uprising took place. Not everything was won. Those parts of Greater Poland, for which slavery lasted not 123 years, but much longer, because since the first recruitment, were systematically Germanized and unfortunately despite the efforts of the insurgents it was not always possible to recover these areas. But thinking of the Greater Poland Uprising, we think of everyone: we will talk about those from the north of Greater Poland in a moment, mentioning the heroes of Rodła, but there were also others who stayed outside the borders of the Republic for the next decade, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome this resolution. I think we have something to go home with, that we respond to the appeals of our local communities and on behalf of the entire Senate we will raise the rank of those important for the Polish identity of the celebrations. I thank you very much for this initiative and for this resolution, for the work of the committee and for this agreement, which has always been characterized by Wielkopolska in times where it was necessary to speak seriously about the most important issues for the nation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Gawl.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This resolution is of great importance, because for the Great Poles the day of victory was the moment of the uprising or the moment of its success. On 11 November 1918, when many parts of Poland were glad to cast off the yoke of partitions, Wielkopolska is still under the Prussian partition. On November 13 in Poznań Mieczysław Paluch organizes an assassination attempt on the town hall. As has been said here, the legal possibilities that gave the German Reich the system and all these destructive moments that brought about revolutionary changes in Germany were exploited. The Reich was weakened and the German army was largely demoralized. In many cities, workers' and soldiers' committees took power. Since November 13, Poles have been organizing themselves consistently throughout Wielkopolska. The District Sejm shall be convened on 3 December. We can see archival pictures that show a great walk towards Ratajczak Street towards the old Apollo cinema, where delegates gathered for this seym. It was a great manifestation of patriotism, Polishness, attachment to lands which were the cradle of the Polish state. It was impossible to wait for what decisions the winning countries would make. Ententa was driven by the interests of the great powers, in politics it always is. It is the great powers that establish world order, and the countries that wish to exist in such a system often have to use the actions we call the facts done. And so it was in Wielkopolska. On December 26, Poznań is visited by Ignacy Jan Paderewski. It is a figure which, with its patriotism, its activities, especially outside the borders of the country, brings the Polish case to the international arena. And it was this great Pole who decided to visit Poznań. The Germans were doing everything they could to make this trip difficult, but together with Paderewski there were representatives of the Allied mission. This coming to Poznań is exactly what we call a spark. December 27th, barracks in the Black Seas, 6th regiment of Prussian grenadiers The soldiers leave, go to the centre of Poznań. They know what the situation is. In the centre of Poznań, Polish flags and Allied flags hang. They are joined by German residents of Poznań, who see that the land they have occupied for so many years can escape their control. There are acts of provocation, Polish flags are broken, there are struggles, fights. The march comes to the centre of Poznań, but the Great Poles are ready. Mieczysław Paluch organizes the Guard and Security Service, that is a few thousand people under arms who are ready to fight. The insurgents' company passes under the police station building, where the fights begin. First shots are fired, Francis Ratajczak is killed. And that's how it started. Poznań was released very quickly, followed by other major cities of Wielkopolska. The battles extend on the northern front, actually up to the Note River, the southern front towards Leszno and on the western front towards Zbąszyń. As has been said here, these were heavy fights, but the insurgent army, which is organized by Major Stanisław Taczak, is well prepared to fight the Germans. After all, many insurgents are soldiers of the Prussian army, who either are on leave or have returned from the front, are prepared and trained. This is also an excellent skill of Greater Poland to use what Germany has taught them, to use German tactics, and to use German weapons against Germany. Success is huge. In fact, by mid-January, when the command must take over General Dowbor-Musnicki, we have organized insurgent forces. Dowbor-Muśnicki is sent by the General Staff to organize the Wielkopolska Army as high-level commander and operate at such a large theatre of war activities. After a few months, we have almost a hundred thousand armies. On 16 February 1919 a truce is signed in Trevira, whose records will then be transferred directly to the texts of the Treaty of Versailles. Thanks to this, Wielkopolska will be able to become part of the reborn Polish state. Here it is very briefly told about important moments in the Greater Poland Uprising. We are particularly talking about the years 1918 and 1919. This is the third uprising. And that's the third successful one. Then there is what is very important to us and what is highlighted in the text of the resolution. The Wielkopolska Army goes further east to help rebuild the Polish state It is a powerful effort. The fights will be divided into three stages. The first stage is fights in Eastern Małopolska, fight against Ukrainians In March, a volunteer brigade left Poznań, who later fought for the Lviv. The second stage was the fights on the Lithuanian-Belarusian front, where General Szeptycki commanded. The third stage is the whole campaign from fighting for Kiev through actions related to the Warsaw Battle and the German Battle. As it is said here today, the Greater Poles bring well-prepared and well-armed soldiers to the Polish Army. Several hundred airplane hulls were captured in the Zeppelin hall in the Winiary district, which were then largely transferred to Warsaw and were the basis of Polish aviation. Since August 1919, Wielkopolska formations have been in battles with the Bolsheviks. The battles of the 14th century were recorded in the Golden Report. The Wielkopolska Infantry Division under the command of the promoted General Daniel Konarzewski. Like the front of Lviv, the soldiers from Wielkopolska were impressive. On the market in Minsk there are battalions of the Greater Polen, mentioned Captain Stanisław Rostworski. Guns in the goats. The soldier is well-dressed and equipped at the rolling stock. Horses for a show. It's a model order. From these ranks beats the power and certainty of victory. Despite sharp marches and heavy battle fatigue not known They can chase the enemy. Ladies and gentlemen, tragic figures are also associated with the Greater Poland Uprising. One of them is Mieczysław Paluch, a member of the Management Board of the Society for the Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising, and the company was formed when the insurgents left for the eternal watch. I need to remind this character here today. In fact, he was creating insurgent forces before the command took over Taczak. He was the author of the takeover of power in command of the 5th Army Corps in Poznań. He's the one who created the Guard and Security Service. He's the one who's finally prepared the plans to get the Sławica Air Station. Mieczysław Paluch joined the army and served the rank of Major, but politically he took the side of Sanation. During World War II, as many Sanatorium officers, unfortunately did not receive an assignment in political retortion, and in England it was the famous Snake Island, where it was, ladies and gentlemen, a camp for Polish officers closed by Poles. He lived there in 1942. Today, on the eve of the anniversary of the century, the company that has recently been established, the name of Major Mieczysław Paluch, makes an effort to bring his remains to Poznań and to place them in the Cemetery of the Decent Great Poles. Because this figure is just an example of a patriotic attitude, but as a result of political actions, it is lost somewhere. Therefore, today's task is to remind the society of those characters without whom Wielkopolska... probably if this independence were regained at all, it is certainly not in the form of decisions and truce in Trevira and then the Treaty of Versailles. I would like to conclude by saying what the memory of the Greater Poland Uprising is to be. Because the last living insurgent in Wielkopolska, Lt. Jan Rzepa from Wronek died 14 years ago. So there is no more alive insurgent. But there are descendants of the insurgents. That is why the Society of the Remembrance of the Greater Poland Uprising works, which reminds us of this military activity, about what is our glory, and about what is today, in difficult times of conflict, such a binder of our great Polish identity. And that's why we really want these next year's celebrations to be a joint celebration of all political and social forces, so that they can join the Greatpolans. There's a lot of self-governments doing to rebuild this memory. The cemeteries are restaurants, graves are marked, fights and insurgents are commemorated. There is also a large contribution of Lech Poznan fans who try to remind and carry out educational activities among young people about this history. And they must be thanked for that. Ladies and gentlemen, 2018 is supposed to be a special year for all of us. We often complain about our uprising in Wielkopolska that Poles forget that there is so little about it in history books. When in 2009 the basis for programming and teaching history in secondary schools became pre-school education, we decided to teach differently. Many teachers have taken action to teach history on the streets... [[Mr. Senator, you're reporting... sorry, you've been saying 15 minutes, so...]] I'm sorry. Maybe five more minutes. Yes? [[No, you've already used the 15-minute limit. So, please...]] Thank you very much. In that case, one more sentence at the end. [[You're welcome.]] That is why we want to show how great the contribution of the Greatpolan to our common struggle for the rebirth of the Republic, to the war for the eastern borders, on the eastern fronts. And that's very important to us. We would like this uprising to be more appreciated and taught about it as it deserves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u26	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, senators! There's not much I could add to those speeches that were before mine. Very detailed the fate of the uprising and some of the insurgents were presented by Senator Gawel. Senator Florek spoke about the plans for the anniversary of the uprising. I just want to point out one thing. The Greater Poland Uprising was one, perhaps one of two successful, victorious uprisings. So far, I could say, while continuing to think of Senator Gawl, we have cherished the uprisings of losing. We were talking about the January Uprising, we were talking about the November Uprising, and the Wielkopolska Uprising was basically silent or talked about in passing. Hence, it is so important to introduce to the teaching, to the textbooks of the history of the Greater Poland Uprising. It succeeded because, for years, the learners under the Prussian partition were accustomed to such work as to produce results and show that in some areas they are better than the occupiers. And all the values that Wielkopolska appreciates, the values that Philip Libicki was talking about here, is that we succeeded, because we are cognizants... That is why this resolution is so adopted, almost without problems. This is what is written on the banner of our city, Poznań. On one side, under the image of I and Bolesław Chrobry, there is a inscription: "Here began the history of the nation, the state and the Church. This is one basis on which Wielkopolska stands. On the other side is the crest of Poznań with the inscription: "The glory of the Lord, which is our work." To these 2 passwords, you can say, the cognizants, the Great Poles always refer. And I will say that the Greater Poland Uprising, the anniversary of its explosion is probably the biggest holiday for Wielkopolska, and please do not receive it pejoratively, more than 11 November. That's our mentality, that's our conviction. Therefore, I thank Mr Gawl very much, because it was his inspiration that this resolution was made, also to Piotr Flork, because here we met these 2 proposals, for the fact that we can process such a resolution today. I hope it will be adopted unanimously. I'm proud of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u28	Dear Marshal! High Senate! For me as a Great Pole, this resolution is extremely important. I am very pleased that today we will establish 2018 as the Year of Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising 1918/1919. I thank many local governments for their appeal to celebrate the Wielkopolska Uprising in 2018. Thank you very much for the action already taken on this anniversary. I am convinced that many institutions, including schools and social organisations in particular, will take numerous initiatives related to the year for the independent and commemoration of the Greater Poland Uprising. Many senators will certainly be actively involved in these celebrations, activities, for which I thank you in advance. As a native ostrvian and resident of Ostrów Wielkopolski I must also mention the Republic of Ostrów, the speech of Poles in Ostrów Wielkopolski against Prussian power one month before the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising. The series "The Republic of Ostrowska" and the feature film "The Republic of Hope," the co-writer of which was Kazimierz Radowicz, tells about the events related to the Republic of Ostrowska. The novel version of the series is Radowicz's book New Year's Eve. In 1988, Zenon Dykcik's monographical work was published.The Republic of Ostrowska: The cause for the history of the Greater Poland Uprising. The Ostrów Wielkopolski City Festival is commemorated on 10 November, and one of the roundabouts in 2006 was named "Rondo Ostrówska Republic." In connection with the Ostrowska Republic historical stagings are organised to commemorate the anniversary of these events. The Ostrowska Region is also organized. Since 2009, the City Council has awarded the Medal of the Republic of Ostrowski for outstanding achievements in various fields: education, culture, art, economy, public activity, sport, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by thanking the initiators once again for this resolution. Let us honor the memory of the insurgents of Greater Poland. Let the 100th anniversary of the Greater Poland Uprising unite above all divisions of all Wielkopolskas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you all senators for your speeches. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 Year of Truth of Poles under the rod sign. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The project is included in print No 610 and the report is published in print No 610 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unlike other patronage resolutions, this project is not closely linked to the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. In this resolution we propose to celebrate, also the round 80th anniversary of the proclamation of 5 truths of Poles from under the sign of the rod. It just so happens that before 3 days, 3 December, it was 80 years since the historic meeting of the General Council of the Polish Union in Germany in the Polish House in Zakrzewo. At that time, 15 years of union activity were summarized and new tasks were set out to be carried out. One of them was the organization of the convention of Poles living in all areas of the Third Reich from Rhine to Eastern Prussia and Silesia of Opole. This happened 3 months later, when the first Congress of Poles in Germany took place in Berlin on 6 March 1938, in the representative room of the People's Theatre. About 5 thousand Poles demonstrated their attachment to Polishness, to the faith of their fathers, to Polish language and tradition in the capital of Nazi Germany. The Congress was opened by the President of the Polish Union in Germany, Fr. Dr. Bolesław Domanski. Let us quote a few sentences from the speech by Dr. Jan Kaczmark, head of the leading Polish Association in Germany: "Our congress today takes place in front of the eyes and the whole Polish nation, and the whole German nation, and the whole world. The world saw that Poles in Germany had to look with attention. The German people saw that it was worthwhile to pay their due respect to the loyal, but proud Poles in Germany. The Polish people see that in Germany they have numerous compatible and worthy sons. And yet what an important and timeless statement of the same Dr. Jan Kaczmark: "The Pole is, who has Polish blood in him, it is from Polish parents, whether he has a name in -cki, -ski or -czyk and whoever he votes for in elections and plebiscites. The nation does not exist by the will of the individual who gives a card on this or another depending on the mood of the moment. A nation dependent on voting cards can Latinly be blown up by any wind. How many nations could a human fantasy create? At the end of his speech Dr. Jan Kaczmarek announced the Truth of Poles in Germany. I quote: On March 6, 1938, we, sons of the Polish Nation, faithful sons of the birthmark, gathered at the first great Congress of Poles in Germany, announce solemnly 5 truths of Poles. First truth: We are Poles! Second truth: The faith of our Fathers is the faith of our children! Third truth: Pole to the Pole Brother! Fourth truth: Every day the Polish National Serves! Truth Five: Poland is Our Mother You can't talk about your mother wrong! The gathered accepted the truths of Poles by acclamation. The mood in the hall is reflected in the April issue of the German Polish magazine "The Berlin Congress" in 1938. When the truths of the Poles fell, they all rose up in solemn silence and received their godly concentration. There's five of them. One shorter than the other, one simpler than the other. And there is no need for understanding these truths of great mental abilities, no need for high schools and long teachings. All you need is a sound mind that hasn't lost touch with the ground, but a heart that isn't degenerate. The assembled felt and understood the Truth as what was taken from their heart and here declared to be before the whole world. The room was thundering and rumbled long and ever new outbursts of enthusiasm. Crying, applause, and waving the rod flags, all of this was one big cry: "That's why we're Poles and we're going to be Poles! We accept the truth! After this explosion of enthusiasm, Wilhelm Poloczek, who gave a manifesto of the young, appeared. How young Poles in Germany understand the truth of Poles. Congress was closed with the words of Fr. Dr. Bolesław Domanski: The book of the Polish people is open, written to a certain place. That's our past. The number of pages unfilled with our future is not counted. The spiritual coherence of our nation is independent. She can't be won. The organization and course of the congress, including the Polish Truths announced on it, echoed widely in the Polish and foreign press. It should also be made clear that Poles lived in the country and accepted the Truths as their own. This is how one of the weekly magazines published in Warsaw wrote about it. I quote: Dear Brothers of ours from the birthmark! The truths of the Poles in your hearts carved into your homes like sacred national relics. But we also accepted them into our hearts and took them with us to our homeland. They will be useful to us as refreshment in the severe and bitter moments of doubt, as a weapon against what a brother is going to do to his brother, what faith our Fathers want to tear out of our children's hearts, what they say wrongly about their mother. You have watered us to content at the source of pure Polishness. Not the one since Christmas, from the parade, from the ceremonial rite, but the one that's been black from work and black bread, smelling of coal, rascal and earth. Hi for this and a heartfelt thank you, Countrymen. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Briefly on the course of the first reading of the draft resolution in the Legislative Commission. The discussion was so turbulent that it lasted for two committee meetings. The main controversy was the wording contained in the resolution, which moved some of its historical statements to modern times. At the request of the opposition senators, they were removed from the resolution as a result of the vote. As a result, all senators participating in the committee meeting voted in favour of the resolution. Agreeed after legislative amendments on a single text I will now allow the High House to present. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2018 as the Year of the Truth of Poles under the sign of the rod. The truths of Poles from the sign of the rod promulgated by our ancestors at the Congress of Poles in Berlin on 6 March 1938 in the largest showroom of the People's Theatre, as a national catechism, a small decal of Polishness, became a national good, a kind of deposit and an intergenerational testament. We're Poles! The faith of our Fathers is the faith of our children! Pole to Pole brother! Every day the National Pole serves! Poland Our Mother, you must not speak ill of Mother! They are still valid, wise, universal, timeless and much needed for today's generations of Poles in Poland and abroad. The five Truths of Poles from the sign of the rod solemnly proclaimed during the Berlin congress is in fact an oath, a heartwarming sign and a declaration of Polishness and love for the Homeland. It is worth recalling the words of Dr. Jan Kaczmark, who emphasized at this historic moment: "Our truths do not come from the understanding of the great wise men, but from the simplest hearts of the Polish People are extracted. And today, from the Congress of Poles in Germany, we send these truths to all Polish hearts in the world. From the perspective of nearly 80 years of the existence of the Truth of Poles under the birthmark, they are astonished by the multitude of moral content, in particular the idea of the unity of Poles, proclaimed by the chief organization of the Polish population in the Third Reich, under the leadership of priest Dr. Bolesław Domanski. The truths of Poles from the birthmark reminded in the year of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence by the Polish State are a universal message of the Community character of the vault of our ancestors. On the Truths of Poles under the birth mark we are still, as the nation of Poland, based on the rock Yeah, sure and strong. The Senate of the Republic of Poland establishes 2018 as the Year of Truth of Poles under the birth mark in order to ensure that the Polish people mention and pay due homage to Poles under the birth sign from the interwar period of the 20th century, Poles who continued to speak and faith of their fathers. The Senate of the Republic of Poland invites educational circles, social organizations, cultural institutions, media and all people of good will for interest and support for initiatives taken from the birthmark throughout Poland, with particular emphasis on Western and Northern Lands (Recovered Lands). The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. At the end of my speech, I would like to welcome Mr Tadeusz Sztyrbak, President of the Family of Wrocław present here in the Senate Chamber, and to thank him for the initiative and help him work on the resolution under trial. On his behalf, I invite you senators and all those listening and watching Poles to participate in numerous projects which will be organized as part of the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the announcement of the Truth of Poles under the birthmark. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Are any of your senators... I can see you're Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, and then you're Senator... [[Jan, too...]] ...Jan Rulewski. [[...but no more Maria.]] Please, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, I would like to ask you something that is not in this resolution, because it has such a distinctive, solemn character, and rightly so, because that is the rhetoric of the resolution. However, in recent years the issue discussed is the question of the property of Polish organizations in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany. What's the situation? I'm asking because, as I know, And I'm sure you know better than I do. The decrees of the Nazi times on the basis of which Poles in the German Reich were deprived of their property, today of considerable value, continue to apply in this respect. It was real estate, it was a hard-earned property. To this day, this issue has not been settled in our relationship, there is a stalemate. As far as I'm concerned, there was also a protest starvation in this area. Would the senator like to bring up this problem, which, by the way, appears on the occasion of such a resolution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u33	Will the senator please refer to this? [[Yeah, yeah.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, actually the state at the moment is that the Polish Union in Germany is reactivated as a formal successor, a legal successor. Therefore, it cannot be accepted that the German party has no reason to give this property to whom. The union is approved by Polonia in Germany. Plus, there's work to be done. These efforts, both by the organization itself and supported by the Polish side, also with the participation of lawyers, unfortunately at the moment are blocked by the German side. It's still at the stage of the process, not the finalization of the process. The act itself, let's face it, took place in 1940 under the legislation of the Third Reich, the Third Reich authorities, and unfortunately the German state as a legal successor, the legal successor of the Third Reich does not fulfil its primary obligation, namely to make good the damage. Not only in this respect, but in this particular case, because this is a very spectacular example, when there is a successor legal, there is a defined property, everyone knows that this property was owned by the pre-war Polish Union in Germany, only the German state on the basis of unclear criteria does not want to return this property. It's just a job for our foreign service.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u36	Thank you. Senator, Senator rapporteur, today we have two resolutions. They are connected by one hundredth anniversary of regaining independence, and the other is that in the West, in Berlin, in Germany, this path is part of this... I am grateful to you at all, and I can thank you for taking up this subject right now, especially since I am about to have a speech about how this has had far-reaching consequences for independence later. But my question is what else is involved. Don't you think there's some competition in these two resolutions? One is about establishing 2018 as the Year of Independence of Poland, and the other is different, it is about Truths, but in connection with independence, it is a draft resolution on establishing 2018 as the Year of Truth of Poles under the sign of Rodka. Will the correct setting, as you rightly call for, be accompanied by these two resolutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u37	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, as to the validity of the Senate's resolution on which I represent the applicants, I don't think we need to argue. Indeed, there are a number of resolutions on events that relate to the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. But the very fact of regaining independence implies that everything that happened last year, and it has one and not another historical aspect, is important. Thus, events that are related to the 100th anniversary of regaining independence will be celebrated in a number of years, in particular in 2018. This event is slightly different because it is about a different date, and the event itself is kind of the result of regaining independence, as well as the kind and not the other conditions under which we regained independence. That's another question. And the question is, will these celebrations be noticed, because that's how I understand the meaning of your question... Well, to the draft resolution In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, it was necessary to join the 2018 celebration program as the year commemorating just 5 Truths of Poles in Germany, the adoption of these Truths. Ladies and gentlemen, it is already 2 pages of the same titles of events and events that will be organized, I will not read you here, in the draft resolution it is certainly possible to notice and you can read it. But, as I said, there will certainly be separate announcements of particular events in particular places. Because the important thing is that it will not only be in one place in Poland or Let's assume In Berlin, where these events occurred 80 years ago, but in many different places. I'll name it, among other things. Wrocław, Opole, Jasna Góra, Warsaw, of course we are also thinking about the Senate, about some commemorative exhibition. The marshal will be pleased, of course. He doesn't know it yet. Ladies and gentlemen, these events are very much here, in this list, and I know that there are more and more of them, because Mr Tadeusz Sztrzrbak here is simply not only organizing this, but he is also very emotionally involved. There is a guru of this enterprise.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u39	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I would like the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'm bringing the Senate greetings from the capital. From the capital of the Polish Union in Germany, and especially the 5th district, from the small village of Zakrzewo in my constituency, in my home parts in Złotowszczyzna, from Zakrzewo, from small Warsaw, as it was said. It was there, as the rapporteur mentioned here, that it was decided to convene a Congress of the Polish Union in Germany. There people paid a huge price for Polishness. Many of them, punishedly sent to the front, forced into the army for belonging to the union, gave their lives for the truths we are talking about here. As soon as the Nazis entered, many were arrested, imprisoned, tortured and tortured. Admitting Polishness in 1938 was already risky. Hitlerism grew and only because it was agreed to this congress, so that there would be no retortion before, to repression against German citizens of the Republic. Everyone had a feeling, as in the Constitution of May 3, that this is the moment when you have to leave the will. The union was very concerned with the issue of symbols around which he wanted to gather. Not being able to be under the sign of our national emblem, because it has been forbidden since the Prussian times, created this beautiful sign Rodo. It is worth mentioning, because we refer to this sign, the people of this sign. There's a lot of talk about the Hornies, about the people of the Horn. We're talking about it in the title of the resolution. So the rod is a symbol of Polishness for all those who found themselves outside the borders of the Republic of Poland in 1918 and after the victorious Greater Poland Uprising. Like I said. The winner, but not quite and not for all. I would like to thank you for this resolution and to say that for people today's will of the union in the form of 5 truths of Poles is just as important, and should be part of our national identity as the work of the Constitution on 3 May. It is not a legal document, but it has great moral power. I had a chance to find out when I was on the anniversary of independence with our compatriots in Vilnius. When I read at one of the meetings 5 truths of Poles in Germany, they answered: but this is an excellent catechism of Polishness for us here and now, for all Poles in the region. It is worth talking about, Mrs. Marshal, in the Senate, because it was the Senate who took it on himself, he has the honour to keep in touch with Poles abroad. May part of the tribute to these people under the birthmark and part of the celebration of this anniversary of establishing truths be a program to spread them among the Polish people in general. The Senate could be a good instrument, so to speak, a good medium for those truths that are so important. For me, too. I had the opportunity to meet activists of the Polish Union in Germany, who lived in my village, lived around the corner, right next to Big Buczek, where we always meet at conferences at which we mention activists, especially the educational Polish Union in Germany, those who were able to run schools in such difficult conditions. He's still alive... I very much regret that... hope that only because of the misunderstanding has it become so... There is another participant of this event who is, of course, over 99 years old, Mr. Alfons Tomke, a resident of Zakrzew. He is always with us when young people come from all over the 5th district, from Opole and from Wroclaw, and from Warmia and Mazury to the capital of Polishness of those years, to the tiny Zakrzew, to the Polish House, where we gather on sejmiki mainly with youth schools bearing the name of people under the birthmark or heroes of the Polish Union in Germany. And Mr. Alfons Tomke, an active activist of the Polish Union in Germany, could be here today. I'm very sorry he's not here because he wanted to be here. I hope he's happy we're remembering people like him today. Indeed, he spoke of this enthusiasm. It was such a special moment. The words that were spoken of were sacred. That's why they're hanging in an early place in my office. Therefore, here in the Senate, at the country conference, the Rodlocks of Zakrzew distributed these truths to the senators so that you could have them in your homes as well. I am pleased that the discussion in the committee has been so successful that consensus has been reached. Of course, at any time, each individual will be able to learn from it his own lesson, how exactly to read these words at this historic moment, but I am in favour of the fact that they remain valid. It's a good thing that's what's left in that resolution. To all those who have important goals, who feel some danger, as the Nazis in Berlin felt at the time, it is worth quoting not only these truths. I often, reading, probably differently than others, the truth of the Association of Poles in Germany, reminds me ♪ Even now ♪ Even shorter, but equally important words included not in the hymn, because the union also had its anthem, but in the slogan of the Union of Poles. I stand before the doubters and encourage you, and stand with these words, and when they doubt, say, "And we will not cease in battle, we have the power of righteousness and the power of this righteousness, and we will prevail and win." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u41	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, rapporteur! As I said earlier, this resolution is needed, and I would add that you would not be offended, especially that it could be an annex to yesterday's speech by the President, who devoted a large part of his speech to the dear Poles who were moving towards independence. You're pointing out this path that he couldn't tell you about... As you can see, this resolution speaks of many roads, very many roads, more important and less important, but all of them consisted of independence success, and later, I also talked about it, they built the unity of Poles, the cohesion of Poles after regaining independence, which in many countries fails. One of these paths was the Association of Poles in Germany under the birth mark, and one of the characters, which is an excellent illustration of dreams, struggles, work, morality, about which you write in this resolution, is President Leon Barciszewski, known as the President of the city of Bydgoszcz, but earlier, Mr. Senator, you are from Wielkopolska. President Gniezno. Yeah, that's... [[Chairman of the City Council.]] And the president. Bydgoszcz, having no good, chose a very good president, a man who deserved very well for the city. Unfortunately, the vileness, to say no more, caused the Nazis not only to fall victim to Polishness, but to fall victim to morality. The Germans, when they evacuated at the request of the authorities and stayed in Przemyśl, leaving their family in Bydgoszcz, lured him under the pretext of abuse at the municipal register. Disgusted by this he came to never return to Poland free, to lose his life with his son, but only by accident, because the Germans were characterized by excessive aesthetics and attention to cleanliness, hygiene, they did not murder their 8-month-old daughter. He died a tragic death, and his remains have not yet been found. Raised among values, practicing the culture of integrity, honesty, moral principles of government, about which the resolution states You're writing about the plurality of moral content in these truths. No one could have done otherwise, deceived the Germans and returned to Bydgoszcz to prove that the documents on the desk exceeded the documents of other mayors and presidents, including Germany, or at least could compete with them. It was used to arrest him at night and then brutally murder him without leaving any evidence of murder. But, ironically, about the tragic irony of the fate of post-war Poland, Peerelowska, although almost from the same basket... For, behold, the communists gave him a second death, a civil one. They simply hid this death and even accused him of doing work against workers during his independence. Someone here said that these truths live, that they find their echoes, so it is worth to compose these resolutions to remind children, our successors, that these are difficult things, but worthy to become the essence of life. They have become one of the contents of life of Solidarity. We extracted from the memory archives of President Leon Barciszewski and restored his dignity. In Bydgoszcz there is a memorial in the form of a memorial, and here in the Senate there was a dedicated exhibition. Once again, I would like to stress that this resolution could be an annex to the President's speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. We proceed to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 by the Year of Independence of Poland. I would remind you that this project was brought in by Senator Jan Zarin. The project is included in print No 611, and the report is published in print No 611 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution. Mr. Senator, you have your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u44	Thank you very much, Marshal. I am pleased to report to the High Senate on the proceedings of the Legislative Commission, which adopted a draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 as the Year of Independence of Poland. In this way, the Senate wants to sign up with its patronage and authority to celebrate the Year of Independence, which, as we have heard, de facto yesterday officially started with President Andrzej Duda's speech at the National Assembly. This speech, which we could listen to, to some extent opens up in a thematic sense everything that will happen in 2018, a truly extraordinary year, which, you can say, will have at least 2 important faces, lungs, impressive with each other. The first thing is without a doubt the building of Polish memory, which is a building that we need today insanely to keep the Polish community going. Undoubtedly, events and people associated with 1918, with the year of regaining independence, decisions, experiences, patriotism of these people, and thus the attitude of love for their homeland, constitute a very good, even beautiful foundation of the modern building of the national community. It also serves to remind about Polish history, of course, to establish 2018 as the Year of Independence of Poland. But I think that in 2018 it is not just a matter of appealing to the historical message, but of course it is important in itself to take into account the course of the next decades, because from September 1939 until at least 1989 we were deprived as a national community of free internal discussion about what happened after 123 years of partitions and how this generation of insubordinates led to Poland regaining independence. That reality of 1918, the years preceding this event and later was crowded into this uncomfortable context both in the times of World War II, of course, but also in the post-war period, when lying in public space caused the inability to really and really discuss Poland and Poles in 1918. So it is today that we do this lesson related to building a national community based on those extremely important events for the history of Poland. As I said, it seems to me, however, that this is not just a homework lesson in history. It's also What the President of the Republic of Poland spoke very strongly about yesterday Some kind of action related to the generations that will come after us. The year 2018 in a sense, you can say, will become what we would very much like I hope this applies to everyone in the Senate. A kind of breakthrough year, a year in which there will be so much about the memory of this Polish memory that the next generations of our children and grandchildren will appeal not only to 1918, but also to 2018 as a year in which there is widespread agreement that we are Poles, that we are not ashamed of it, that we are clearly a great nation, capable of being free and independent, that there is no such external or internal power that we can enjoy this freedom and independence, and that there is no such effective power that we would again, unfortunately, what has happened in our history, embarrassed us with the existence of Polish ancestors, as if there were healthy, free and independent nations, that we did not have the right to enjoy their history, as if we could not be proud of the fact that we had and have outstanding fathers, grandparents, that we have Polish families who deserved Polish history. Thus, this Year of Independence of Poland is not only the year 1918, but also the year 2018, the year of independent Poland, independent Poles. I would like to signal this not only very clearly, but also to present: we are independent Poland, we are independent Poles and I very much hope that this truth will become inalienable and unwashable in our history. May this year 2018 indeed bring us such universal consent as to our uniqueness as a nation, which is a free, independent nation, embedded in these wonderful Christian truths in which we have been raised and lived since 966. If you don't mind, I will now read the text of this resolution, which I hope will. In every sentence, the two spaces I was talking about, i.e. lung of the past and lung of the future. Only if these lungs work together can we talk about a healthy body. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2018 as the Year of Independence of Poland. In 2018 we celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, after 123 years of struggle for freedom of the nation and the right to a sovereign state. For more than 100 years, generations living in the country and in emigration have made a commitment written in the legionary song, which has become a reborn national anthem in Poland: Poland has not yet died while we live. The fight for independence was fought both through uprisings (November or January), counting in vain on the help of the powers, as well as by the work at the ground, aimed at modernising Polish lands and building a modern nation. The nineteenth-century generations of Poles, insurgents bearing in their heart the memory of the First Republic, the witches of the nation, artists, Polish intelligence, landownership, clergy, industrialists, workers and peasants, influenced their attitude towards Polish patriotism, in which the love of freedom and righteous rule was dominated, supported by the pillars of the widely professed Christian faith. The outbreak of the Great War, for which Adam Mickiewicz prayed, which for many has become an unforgettable tragedy of the nations to this day, has also brought hope for a new European order based on the law of nations to self-determination. Thanks to the victory of 11 November 1918 of Western democracy and the 14-point peace programme developed by the President of the United States, with the thirteenth point, which talks about the establishment of independent Poland with free access to the sea, Poland returned to the political map of the Old Continent. At the same time, representatives of the next generation of Poles, called the generation of the insubordinates, with Józef Piłsudski and Roman Dmowski at the head, fought both armedly under the Polish banner and in the offices of world leaders to internationalize the Polish cause. The result of this laborious work and tribute of blood made to resurrect the Homeland was the participation of representatives of the reborn Poland in building the order of Versailles, based on the principles of democracy and freedom of nations. The day of the end of the First World War is also another installment of our struggles for the territorial shape of the state for Poles. The defeated central powers and Russia did not accept the loss of land that took over 100 years earlier under their imperial policies. Since November 1918, wars and uprisings for the right of residents of the disputed areas to participate in the construction of reborn Poland have been fought on Polish lands. The extraordinary potential of patriotism of the Polish, self-government and bottom-up realization of the Polish state appeared on Polish lands and emigration. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, establishing 2018 as the Year of Independence of Poland, on the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, pays tribute to both Polish leaders, politicians and commanders, as well as to all those who, in years of struggle for free and independent Poland, have witnessed their love for Poland and have inscribed themselves in the beautiful verses of Leopold Staff: Poland, you are no longer a slave! But the greatest thing to be is yourself! The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. And one more word, if the marshal will allow it. I would like to go back to this poem by Leopold Staff and read it again, because the heart of 2018 and the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence are the last words of Leopold Staff's poem: Poland, you are no longer a slave! But the greatest thing to be is yourself! And let us make sure that we are ourselves, not copies of any other nation in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant. May I remind you that the motion for a resolution was Senator Jan Żaryn. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go. Then Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u46	I'll be fair, Senator, to Senator Czerwinski, and I'll treat you just as well. [[Thank you very much.]] It's about the competitiveness of the resolution. Isn't this resolution competitive with the laws we adopted three months ago about the celebrations? There we pointed out, perhaps in the preambles or in other accompanying texts, in the justification... The president also spoke about it yesterday. About the fact that it has the rank of a bill. And all we're talking about here is a resolution and only the Senate. So I'd say it's a lower rank. How would you respond not so much to the charge as to my curiosity?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u47	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Of course, the law on the establishment of a national holiday commemoration committee, which is the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, is the highest act and we are glad that such a committee existed alongside the president. However, there is no doubt that we are one of the most important institutions in the country. We are therefore not only obliged to enter into the anniversary of Poland's regaining independence with our own example, an example of 100 senators. I think that we are able to enter into numerous initiatives that are already visible today, even in the project "Independant," as well as being an attractive party for all who want to see the patron saint of celebrations in us. The Senate will, of course, be the organizer of the exhibition, organizer of the conference and co-organizer of many events prepared by many environments, according to our internal tradition. This is, in fact, a testimony to the truth contained in the resolution about how much we are, in fact, a civil and self-government nation. Many organisations and structures have been preparing for the 100th anniversary of regaining independence for many months. I think the Senate is a good patron for just such bottom-up, self-government preparations, including local ones, also in our districts. In my district I patronize many such initiatives, e.g. an initiative to rebuild a monument which stood in Czosnów in the period of the Second Republic of Poland, in the Podwarszawska commune, and which was demolished. It was in connection with 2018 that the local community, without asking anyone's opinion, made a commitment and financial and organizational commitment to return this monument to its former place. And a beautiful eagle will dominate the garlic. There are hundreds of initiatives like this. There are hundreds of organizations that should and I hope they will. Come to us, to the Senate. We, celebrating this year, will be able to be a patron. Our activity in 2018 will be at least comparable to that of the President, who said yesterday that in 2018 he will try to be almost everywhere he is invited. This resolution is, of course, a commitment, Senator, that we will not only declare, but also actively participate in the celebrations, especially in our districts. I don't know if you're satisfied with this, but that's my message in response.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u49	Thank you very much, Senator. The question is asked by Senator Czesław Ryszka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about 1918. We kind of idealized that date a little bit. Many of our nation's members were Germanized, destroyed. There were parties in the service of those governments. There were officials who lost their jobs because independent Poland came back. Am I right in saying that we are only talking about the great leaders who understood the flight, that history has become so successful for us and we can build the Polish state, and we ignore those who then, perhaps a little like today, did not feel this fragment of Leopold Staff's poem and preferred to be slaves rather than themselves? [[Mrs. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u51	Yes, of course. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, of course you know the answer to that question...]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, but someone's playing something in the O.R. and it's bothering you. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you're hearing this... [[Yeah, we hear you.]] It's bothering you, so turn it off. I don't know, someone's got a tablet or phone on speakerphone. I'm asking you to turn this thing off. Please, Mr. Senator. [[Well, you can still hear...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course you know the answer to that question. The Polish nation, like any other nation, was undoubtedly not made up of angels alone. We are talking about the anniversary of 1918 in symbolic form, because without a doubt the road to independence is the road to 11 November and 11 November 1918. It can be said that this test of the width, depth of the influence of Polishness on the community has been revealed, i.e. it has become as if a real being, only the historians try to interpret it this way. In August 1920. It is a determined universality of recognition that the Polish state is a good for which even life is worth sacrificing. It is not only a question of those over 100,000 people who volunteered for the army under the command of General Józef Haller, but also a very clear local awareness of many Polish communities from different layers and above all from the peasant and workers. They, despite the strong pressure of influence, also unfortunately the strong influence of Bolshevik rhetoric, in the vast majority gave their hearts and minds to this Polish community. Of course, we do not forget these difficult moments of 1918. I am not only thinking of officials who have lost their jobs in possessive institutions. It seems to me, however, that this is a margin, although of course a very interesting margin, because it is such a lesson in history concerning the difference. between the Polish nobleman and the Polish intelligence officer. The Polish nobleman was undoubtedly a free man, especially the mansion, but the Polish intelligence from the 19th century, to which we often refer as a carrier of independence, freedom, extension of ethos and the Republic of Poland, was very often enslaved because he was an official on a salary with a foreign mighty man. He became a Polish intelligence officer in the afternoon and evening when he conspired in the living room It was a Polish intelligence at the time. And now the question, which part of this Polish intelligence officer won in 1918. You're right, Senator, this is an interesting and important question. May we never become such an intelligence that in 1918 did not understand the time of day. That is undoubtedly true, very interesting. But let us also be aware that certainly not everyone wanted Poland to regain independence in 1918 or later, in the perspective of 1920. Among those who didn't want it, evidently, are those who either had parallel dreams about the rise of an independent... E.g. Ukrainian elites, raised in this belief in regaining independence, especially Ukrainian elites from the Austrian partition. But also other national minorities, especially the German minority, which, of course, not only did not want independent Poland, but even recognized that these lands, which entered into the shape of the Second Republic And Silesia, and Wielkopolska, and Polish Kaszuby will be devastated by Poles. This was the German vision that emphasized the seasonality of the Polish state, the vision of this German minority, which turned out to be totally disloyal to the emerging Polish state. It is worth reading memories of various elites of the German minority And it was generally a rich community. And to see how traumatic they were experiencing the appearance of Polish officials on Polish lands and the fact that this is the beginning of the Polish state, how they treated it as a nightmare, as a bureaucracy, through which they cannot pass, as a phenomenon hindering their everyday life and the multiplication of their assets, as they claimed to be the future occupied power, that is, the inefficient Polish state. This was the awareness of a large part of the richer German minority who was contesting the fact that the Polish state had been established and never opposed to it. Of course, also a Jewish minority who, for other reasons... Because either she didn't see a reason to rejoice, or she was just begging. It means that she wanted this new country to secure more rights than the previous countries installed on these lands. And she didn't have a feeling, with a heart, of the fact that this is the map of Europe and this territory that has changed. All this, of course, must also be remembered and it must be mentioned, including the Polish-Lithuanian conflicts, about many others which took place at the time and which revealed or polarized this scene of Central and Eastern Europe, which was very visible in Poland's lands. And finally, it is this Bolshevik propaganda, which, despite the formation of the government of Witos and Daszyński, i.e. the leaders of these folk layers, which were to enter into Polishity and be beneficiaries of the Polish state... Well, part of it fell into this pagan doctrine, which in 1920 spilled behind the Polish-Bolshevik front, and which caused also acts of terror, and acts of barbarism, and above all clearly erected gates, as once to the tsar, so now to the Bolsheviks. It's all written, unfortunately, in Polish. In quotation marks It's a piece of work. And we must, of course, remember that. But undoubtedly 2018 is the year in which we should especially remember this huge crowd of Poles who, unquestioned by anyone, whether they are allowed or not, were so motivated by themselves, internally motivated, made decisions to join in building an independent homeland. This is the phenomenon that we need today, the phenomenon of brave taking into our hands the Polish matter where every Pole feels that his decision, his courage will do what we call the common good. This is something that was incredibly expanded at the time and which was a natural phenomenon. A few weeks ago, thanks to you, Professor Wind I was in Tarnów, where the local population gathered during my lecture and members of Tarnów's association were proud to tell how they first regained their independence. The first, because the conspirators were gathered on October 30th, nobody asked their opinion. And five of them got the city back, drove the Austrians away. And thanks to that, we did not have a situation like Przemyśl or Lviv, because there was no competition to take power. And so we could multiply these examples of bottom-up Polishness, which started then, at a time when we had to not miss the moment when we were Poles. And it's very important in 2018 that we don't miss this moment when we're Poles so that we don't spit on each other's beards afterwards. And this does not apply to 100 senators, but concerns 30 million Poles living in the country and all those living outside its borders. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u53	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicants... [[Voice from the room: That's what's going on.]] [[Voice from the room: It's already going on.]] Oh, that's great. I'm sorry, I changed you, Marshal Blanket... Are there any more questions? No? That was the answer, I understand. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Ryszka was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, after 123 years of struggle for freedom of the nation and the right to a sovereign state. In the first sentences of our senate resolution I read this sentence: For more than 100 years the next generations, living in the country and on emigration, made a commitment written in a legionary song that became a reborn national anthem in Poland: Senators, I think it is an extraordinary happiness for us, the present generation of Poles, that we are celebrating the century of regaining independence in free Poland, that we can pay tribute to the Senate's resolution, both to Polish leaders, politicians and commanders, as well as to all those who, in years of struggle for free and independent Poland, have witnessed their love for their homeland and inscribed their attitude in the beautiful verses of Leopold Staff: Poland, you are no longer a slave! But the greatest thing to be is yourself! It was Senator Żaryn who also emphasized and analyzed very beautifully. Let me stress once again, we are celebrating this century in free and independent Poland. But does this mean that today there are no threats to independence and freedom? I would like to point out that today, the threats of independence are present and have a very strong impact on our everyday life. Isn't it a threat to independence that there's too much power of foreign media? Trying to impose our own ideology, as well as a vision of history and reality? Is it possible to talk about respect for independence when it takes place e.g. Unjustified intervention of international organisations in domestic affairs? Is the country independent if it has a policy far from basic ethical principles? These are just a few questions about the threats of independence, which today must not be forgotten. Freedom and independence have not been given to us once and for all. In the years before independence, before 1918, a prominent priest, Fr. Ignacy Kłopotowski, blessed today, in his journal entitled "Polish Catholic" to the question of what the homeland should be and what should be for us, answered: "Is this just the land on which we live, the zagon or the factory from which we have the maintenance, the building, the railways, all the equipment that the wealth of the country represents? Oh, no! The homeland is primarily about us, the Polish nation, our faith, our language, our history and everything that connects us and connects us into one family. If we understand that Poland is a Polish nation, then the Polish people, we will answer the question which Poland will be. It will be as we will be. The establishment of the Regency Council in September 1917 Fr. Ignacy Kłopotowski summarized the words: "The great and joyful day shined on our homeland. From now on, we have state power. We have our own Polish government, which is at the mercy of God and with the help of the nation to build Poland will be free, independent, happy. In order to prepare society for this historic event, Fr. Kłopotowski called for the reconstruction of the country, for responsible tasks. The titles of his articles show this. I will remind you of these titles: Silent work, sacrifice, patriotism, reconstruction of Polish cities and villages, home heritage, duty to work, civic obligations, etc. And when freedom came, Fr. Krópotowski appealed: "To make this resurrection complete and lasting, society must support it by its own collective force. Everyone's got to work on lifting up their homeland. No one is to be removed from this job. At that time, his articles were published in the pages of his weekly "Secretary" entitled "For Homeland," "What should we do for Homeland?," "How to work for Homeland?," "We will raise the customs of ancestors," "Let us raise the teaching of crafts," "What Polish people demand?," "Let us defend ourselves against Bolshevism," etc. However, regaining independence in 1918 did not have to be a happy day for all Poles, since the same Fr. Ignacy Kłopotowski regretted that he wrote in the weekly Posiec.: "Not all people yet understand what happiness for the nation is for their own independent state. Today you can still hear such an unreasonable sentence: I don't care about the Polish government there, I don't care what government will be, so that only under it will I be well. I remind you of these thoughts and counsels of the blessed Fr. Troublemaker, so up to the present time, thinking about today, about a free country But let me be clear: a country so little loved. Question: "How can we love our homeland today under conditions of peace and independence?" What will our love of our homeland look like today? We love what we know. If anyone does not know the history of Poland, he does not love his country. Knowledge is the beginning of love, so important is school, education, it is so important to read about our history, learn about the biography of great Poles, learn about Polish traditions, culture, worship of national holidays. In a word: feel like someone with a past to build the present thinking about the future. To love your country is to think about today, to take care of your country's welfare today. Each country is primarily rich with the strength of individual citizens. Hence the health of citizens, education, mental and moral maturity are the strength of the country. What kind of love it would be if most people in a country were uneducated, naive, or uncritical. To love your country is to be able to do something for her. President Kennedy used to say, "Don't ask what the United States gave you, ask what you gave the United States." So the love of the country is the ability to sacrifice. They do not love the homeland of selfish people, people who focus on making the most of opportunities to earn money, seeking only pleasure and comfort. The true love of the country cares for others, for the fate of the nation, for the poor, for the unemployed, for families, children, young people and for the elderly. To love your homeland is to take care of the most important and fundamental community that family is. In it we are born, we grow and we die. What a country this would be, what a weak nation if there were no strong families. Only a strong family is the foundation of a strong homeland. Today, the strength of the country is not merely the military. Or the strength of the army, but rather the level of economic development, scientific and technical progress. This is why there is a threat to a country where a large proportion of citizens are unemployed, ill-educated, careless workers, and a country that has no strong industry, banks, modern agriculture, its own, not foreign, media. To love your country is to make wise political choices. The point is that the state should have good laws, fair courts, so that the people in power should not be corrupt or incompetent. Democracy is supposed to be the best mode of action, but only when people are governed by light, responsible and competent, people of conscience who genuinely and sincerely care for the common good. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, these are some of my anniversary thoughts on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. I'm gonna stress it again. In a free and democratic country today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u55	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By means of projects which I understand were brought by a group of senators, but which are authorized by Senator Czerwiński and Senator Żaryn, memories of the moments when Poland was born returned to this room for a moment. People are mentioned, events and there is agreement that the roads to independence were many and led from many places. And of the Oleanders, and of the United States, and of Paris. In his resolution Senator Czerwiński writes about moral truths, he mentions that one of the calls of the people from the sign of the birth was: "The faith of our Fathers is the faith of our children!" As the literature of those times is remembered, it is known that they were not only occupied by fighting and blood, but also endowed with a will, a will of freedom, a decrease in freedom, which meant that this sacrifice was not just a one-off act. The use of the situation is intended to be sustainable It's also in those resolutions. Which will become a common thing for the rest of time, forever, forever. Yes. Every moral science teaches, especially Christianity, to multiply good. Senator Ryszka as if he had referred to it and gave the commandments, but I think he asked questions. Are we fulfilling this will for eternity today? Will these celebrations of the 100th anniversary be merely historical memories more and more distant, or will they be the fulfillment of the will? I'm saying no. Even though the historical message is always powdered or deprived of all negative sides, today I must say that we do not fulfill this will, especially here in Parliament... we as guarantors of the constitution and independence. One of the paths discussed here was that Poles scattered around the world as much as possible, and I would even say that over their capabilities, they asked, won in pianos, in literature, in rallies, or directly in the organization of Haller's army independent Poland in Paris. People with different characters, visions, paths or even material backgrounds, if you consider Piłsudski and Paderewski, knew, had to fight behind the diplomatic table this freedom, guarantee it. When freedom came, as I mentioned, there was a second miracle, a miracle of integration. Out of 3 partitions, different currencies The German brand was still in force until 1921. Languages, schools and, as Senator Żaryn said, material jobs that some lost, others gained, and how they gained... E.g. President Narutowicz, on his return from Switzerland, received the same salary as his secretary in Switzerland. And he returned, without regard for it, nor for what other Poles think of him. But I'm going back to the will that we're not fulfilling it. And here, in Parliament, are the worst charges of treason, murder. This can be seen as an outrage or an incident, but we are certainly leaving the mission that has already been at the heart of the Treaty of Versailles when it was not only about the new borders of Europe but also about the new European governance. This order has broken down. Today, after the Spring of the Peoples, after the revolution of Solidarity, once again in Europe there was hope for a new European order. Poland participates not only as one of many countries, as Of course. The Republic, which is not closed only within the state limits, and its function is not limited to economic, social, cultural life within the country, within the national life... Poland reaches further today and Poland is spoken about in New York. Recently, thanks to John Paul II, Poland was on the mouth and in teaching the whole world. And Poland today speaks the language of Poles in the European Union. When I mention the will again today, I ask that during these celebrations we speak the language of all Poles: Kaczyński and Tusk, and Jandy, and Zelnik, and Czerwinski, and Rulewski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u57	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the social security system and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 663, and the report of the Commission in print No 663 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy a report on the proceedings concerning the Act amending the Law on the Social Security System and certain other laws. This law implements a government project which entered the Sejm on 31 October this year. The first reading took place at the 50th first session of the Sejm. At first reading on 9 November this year, a motion was made to reject the draft law. 126 votes against, 256 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm adopted the Act on 24 November this year, passed the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and some other laws. 226 Members voted in favour of this law, 209 against and 4 abstentions. The aim of this law is to abolish the upper limit of pension and pension contributions from 2018 onwards. Therefore, according to that law, the pension and pension premium would be deducted from the total income. The abolition of one of the relevant institutions of the insurance system, which has so far reduced the annual basis for pension and pension contributions to 30 times the projected average salary, constitutes an important change in the social security system. In this respect, the Social Insurance Act constitutes the basic law and the amendments made in Article. 19 decided on the need to amend its other provisions, as well as the amendment of the law on uniformed services and their pension provision, and the legislative adjustment of other laws, such as the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of insolvency of employers, on the promotion of employment and institutions in the labour market, on the provision of public-funded health care, and on the law on the system of universal courts and the law on the prosecutor's office. The Commission held its meeting two days ago was discussing this law and the discussion was essentially conducted in two directions. Firstly, the question was whether the law was properly and widely consulted with the relevant environments. In this regard, the Minister, also present in the Chamber today, provided information showing that this consultation had taken place but was incomplete and incompatible with all the requirements for the government project. The subject was also addressed in the statements of the senators, as well as invited guests, employers' representatives, trade unions, actually the criticism of the lack of consultation was quite common during the committee meeting. Secondly, a substantive issue was raised concerning what would happen if this was introduced in a very sudden way when businesses and businesses were not prepared for this. I purposely presented here terms, that is, when the bill entered the Sejm. The project was introduced, I remind you, on 31 October this year, and so very urgently the draft of this law was examined. As the law would enter into force next year, from January, it is extremely difficult for the implementers of this law, not only entrepreneurs, but also the Social Insurance Institution. In many voices there were reservations that it would be simply unrealistic and impossible to implement, even in a technical sense. It has also been indicated in many voices, including trade union representatives, that this will result in leaving employment contracts In order to reduce official revenues or revenues In the direction of self-employment. It has also been reported that because it concerns the most wealthy groups of Poles, including those employed in the IT industry, and with this it is very easy to move abroad, it will not only go in this direction that some people can move to self-employment, it may also be so that they want to move their workplace, which would be detrimental to our country. In this situation, two amendments have been tabled, by Senator Rooster and by your senator... [[Augustine.]] Augustine, which was similar in substance, was concerned that these solutions should not enter into force next year, but only from 2019. On this point, the opinion of the government representative was positive. There was a vote in which all the senators present at the committee's meeting supported this amendment, which is to postpone the implementation of this law so that it practically enters into force in 2019 and not in 2018. That concludes my report. This was the essence of the meeting of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the minority's motion to reject this law. This is not a standard motion from an opposition representative. This is the conclusion picked up from the hall, repeated by the representatives of the trade union, Solidarity, who demanded it, that is the proposal presented by representatives of employers and representatives of local governments. If I also applied for an extension of the vacathio legis later, then I only did it because I was afraid And I'm still worried. That this conclusion may not pass. Ladies and gentlemen, he is very strongly motivated. I don't think even the year that stays to think about it is enough. This change is not enough for a project to be presented in the same direction. He's basically bad, not worth continuing to process. It's not just that it's impossible, as the Minister said, to make up for, as it's said, the original sin of not consulting. Ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed here a beautiful ceremony connected with the functioning of the Social Dialogue Council. Do you think that the opinion of the Social Dialogue Council was taken on such a fundamental issue that concerns workers, which concerns employers? Do you think that the Joint Committee of Government and Local Government has gathered to consider a matter that concerns local government revenue? That's not gonna happen, that's not gonna happen. Although later, not in consultation, which is mandatory in such cases, the parties could comment, for example. at the meeting of our committee Well, the senator was talking about it, that's what happened. But it's not the same as consulting. There was no consultation. To put this part of the statement, this part of the justification for the motion to reject this law, I would like to say that this is not the first signal of disregarding everyone, literally all the social partners. The government sent this signal: power knows better, power will do it its way. But does he really know better? Will it really be socially just how this change is motivated? Is the fact that we may be slowing down the development in this largest, most important area of the economy, which is the digital economy, in any of us, socially, economically beneficial? Will it be socially fair for some to receive incredibly large pensions? Will it be okay for some people to be valued at thousands of zlotys a year? After all, it will cause concern, it will raise opposition. Recently, at the meeting of our economic committee, we discussed how we could limit the apanages of the heads of state Treasury companies, and now we will give them excellent, incredibly large pensions, which the Social Insurance Fund cannot afford. It's gonna be flipped. You know perfectly well how the Social Security Office operates. On the shoulders of all employees, or at the expense of the other insured persons in the Social Insurance Fund. This is not a law that correctly understands and implements social justice. Definitely not. And what effect will that have on employees? Ladies and gentlemen, first of all for those of the highest, we would say, shelves, those who are to be the pillar of the innovative economy... We in the economic committee try to feel it, work with Prime Minister Morawiecki, help him to make plans for the development of the innovative economy work. But what we're talking about here is simple. Putting your foot under these plans, because it is these people who are the biggest group among... Not bosses, but these excellent managers, excellent IT specialists, these are the ones that will be affected by this bill. Are they without choice? Are they out of options? No, of course not. It's already been mentioned. There is a serious danger that they will switch to self-employment. Many are already self-employed, followed by others. And if necessary, everyone in the world will welcome them with open hands. So we risk a lot on an absolutely fundamental issue for development. This is not a bill that benefits employees. The effects of self-government... It is known that local government revenues will decrease. And no one in this law nor in any other act at the moment proposes to compensate for this, even though it is ordered by the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, you can't do something like that in Poland anymore. There is no provision in the budgets of many offices, and no provision is made in the companies of the Treasury for the money that would cover these additional expenditures on the Social Insurance Fund. Well, unless the employers go the other way and lower these people's salaries. But then will it be beneficial for the employees? And yet there are industries, big industries that we also care about. Energyists, miners Whether we want them, Barborka can, or under the tree, buy such a gift that they have a choice... Ladies and gentlemen, and in addition, the CSO itself, which is to implement this, is absolutely unprepared for it at the moment. So you can see that there are a whole lot of reasons, very serious reasons why this law should not be procedated. If you need a thought, let's start it together. Because, gentlemen, the Social Dialogue Council is about to meet, and even before that, it seems to be a joint committee of government and government, and perhaps these issues will be on the agenda, to be considered, but not in consultation. These are already behind us. And that is why I believe that dialogue needs to be taken, and that is why we need to take a step backwards, reject this presentation, start a discussion on this subject and work out a compromise that would remove the risks that I have been talking about here. Once again, I would like to stress: the proposal to reject this project is a proposal of a trade union.Solidarity, is a proposal of all employers' corporations and is a proposal of all local corporations. This should be enough to convince you to support the proposal to reject this law. And if there's a will here, in the Senate or in the government, to work on solutions in this case, then we'll have the right time. Once again, I ask you to reject this wrong bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u61	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My question is to Senator Augustine after what I heard at the moment. I understand that the position of Solidarity and other relationships was... It's a government project. You said about government budgets that there would be, which is clear, less influence when it comes to self-government. I understand that this is a government project and that the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission should meet and take a stand on this matter. In that case, I would like to ask you what was the position of the Joint Government Commission and the Territorial Government.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u63	Unfortunately, this issue did not appear at the joint committee meeting, for which local government corporations in writings and committee meetings... The Polish Districts Association regretfully informed the members of the committee. They're filing for the rejection of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u64	You're welcome, Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, question. You said that the trade union protests, disagrees with this law. I understand that, since this is a government project, not only should there be discussions within the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission, but also a broad public consultation. Has Solidarity expressed its opinion during this consultation process, perhaps in writing submitted an opinion on this proposal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u66	Yeah, the opinions were, but they were ready for the project. I don't want to confuse the dates here, but... the work was carried out at such a rate that it was not until the very end of October, just before the Sejm meeting, the government accepted this project, a few days later it was in the Sejm and was carried out by the Sejm. Therefore, the social partners were only able to submit their opinions to the draft already submitted. And the consultation is that at an earlier stage You, as Minister, know this very well. There is a chance to consult the project. There was no such consultation, all the more so there was no position of the Social Dialogue Council. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u68	Senator of the bill, Senator Szymanski. Senator, is there sufficient justification for the need for a sudden, unexpected and unconventional bill to which you and most of the committees have convinced the Minister present at the meeting? Remind me because I didn't hear it. And second question. You mentioned that, a little too vaguely, that everyone voted in favour of the bill, along with the amendment. What's more, the government's supposed to support her. I wish I had a guarantee. If the Senate accepts this bill with an amendment understood as creating a certain distance, the possibility of correction, then in the Sejm at the right time, probably suddenly again, the government will guarantee... At the right time, because the president has to sign this bill. And the third question. If it's what you're in charge of, I'll go back to question one. If there was such a budget tsunami, what would I say would this tsunami be filled if we suspended this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This second question is addressed mainly to the representative of the government. I understand that it will be repeated. It refers to what are the guarantees if we accept what the whole committee has given a positive opinion, i.e. to postpone the implementation of this law to 2019; it is about how we have the guarantee that the Sejm will accept it, and how it will also affect the state budget. We have asked the Minister here today and there was support for this amendment at the committee meeting, and I therefore conclude that the matter has also been consulted, so to speak, within the government. So that guarantees the peace you're talking about, and that shift. On the other hand, how will this be compensated for by the state budget... Because it is said that the revenue of the state budget would be increased by about PLN 5 billion thanks to this law. I think that there will indeed be a response from the Minister in this regard. In this case, he will probably also speak and talk more about the fate of this law and possible intentions regarding its changes. However, it is indeed what Senator Augustine said, and I spoke as the rapporteur of the committee, that the appropriate forms of consultation were not completed. This is a clear matter, undisputed by the Minister. He did show what had been done, but it was not really done in a manner consistent with the consultation procedure. So that I only confirm my statement from the report, actually nothing new here. [[Excuse me...]] Yes? [[...to all the questions you have answered, but are you familiar to me with the reason why such a tsunami is taking place in connection with this bill? What do you mean, the government... how do you know that the government justifies it?]] Mr. Senator, please... That's the question exactly for the Minister. How does the government justify this? Well, this is where the government representative, Minister Zielenecki, will speak, and he will answer that question. [[Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u70	If there are no further questions, then... [[And I have a question. I volunteered.]] You're welcome, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u71	Maybe Senator Szymanski, too. The ZUS is subsidised from the budget. You said that this change would reduce this subsidy by about PLN 5 billion. But the labour market must also be taken into account. We need to take into account the pension bill, the restoration of the retirement age of 60, 65 years. There will be more and more pensioners, and fewer people will work, which is also very important, important. However, all of this must be taken into account. Given this minimum pension, which I'm sure more and more people will enter... I will no longer justify why, but it is to be expected. Well, we have a rather complicated and difficult situation. My question concerns these additional influences, the means to influence the Social Security Office. I would like to know how to calculate this, because here we have to take many elements into account. Where did it come from that the revenue to the budget would be 5 billion PLN? I understand that this can be postponed over time, but if we assume that these influences will be greater, that there will be no 30-time limit, then we will have to pay higher pensions later, and significantly higher pensions. So was this taken into account by calculating the five billion? Because you have to take into account all these factors, the labour market... etc. I don't think that, after an analysis, the conclusion is that this is going to be a 5 billion budget impact. What was it like... Did you have any calculations, calculations, documents? What would be the point of that? It's about getting familiar with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We received this information from the Minister present at the committee meeting, we did not receive any additional material, and we did not ask for this material. So we got the dry information you're talking about. We didn't expand it with the particular elements that you're pointing out. Of course, we are aware that there have been various events that you are talking about, causing the Social Insurance Institution to need an increased amount of money to carry out its tasks. We did not receive such very detailed information in writing, but we did not ask for such information orally either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u73	I don't hear any more questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's law of 24 November 2017 amending the Act on the social security system, but also other laws, among others. The Social Insurance Fund pension law provides for the elimination of an exception which operates in the social security system and in the area of pension and pension insurance, i.e. the exception to the principle which has been accepted in our social security system, that the obligation to pay social security contributions or, more broadly, to different forms of social security concerns all the income generated by the activities covered by the social security obligation. This principle can be formulated on the basis of the provisions of the Public Health Benefits Act. Let me remind you that the exception, which consists in exempting insured persons from the premium obligation after exceeding 30 times the average monthly salary, does not apply in the area of health insurance, we all pay a health insurance premium of 9% the basis of the dimension actually from the total revenue that we achieve under the various titles subject to social insurance. The situation with regard to sickness insurance is similar with regard to accident insurance. Similar rules for determining the level of social security contributions apply to the insurance against the risk of insolvency of the employer. The contributions to the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund shall also be calculated on the total salary, including on the part which exceeds 30 times the average monthly salary, the same applies to the Labour Fund. What I'm saying is the same rule, I mean. that we pay contributions from the total revenue generated, affects 98% persons insured under the general scheme in the framework of pension and pension insurance. I'm talking 98%. insured persons who during each calendar year do not exceed the threshold of 30 times the average monthly salary. These people pay contributions from all their income. The solution proposed in the Act of 24 November 2017 is addressed to persons who, on a yearly basis, go beyond this envelope of funds equal to 30 times the average monthly salary. In 2017 this amount of the limitation was at the level of PLN 127 000 890. According to our calculations in the group of insured around 350 thousand people benefited from this limitation We're talking about 2% here. insured persons. Of course, these are the highest-paying people with the highest income. We can assume that these are the best qualified people with the highest professional qualifications. So that in such categories this project was justified, also during the preparation work at the work stage of the Council of Ministers. This is how I justified this project during parliamentary work in the Sejm, and today I maintain the same justification. This is, you can say, a law that eliminates the exception, the breach that has so far occurred in the pension and pension insurance system. As usual, the medal has two sides. The proposal to remove this limit, this limitation of the maximum annual basis for pension and pension contributions, also translates into a service page. The Act provides for the release of the maximum indicator of the amount of the benefit base on the witness's part. It can be said that this indicator is still applicable in terms of the size of pension benefits. The amount of 30 times the average monthly salary, if we divide it for 12 months, is the annual limit, which will give us 2.5 times the average monthly salary, so this is the solution that applies to persons who earn monthly income subject to compulsory pension and pension insurance of 250%. an average salary and a higher salary. As I said, the other side of this coin is to limit the maximum level of the benefit base to 250%. The consequence of lifting the 30-fold limit must also be the deletion, elimination of this limitation, which means that pension benefits, in particular pension benefits. As I said, this indicator continues to apply mainly in determining the amount of invalidity pensions or family pensions In an appropriate manner, adequate increases will be made. The same will apply to pensions determined according to the new formula in force in the new pension scheme, i.e. pensions calculated according to the so-called formula. the defined contribution. Although in this case this measure of the basis of assessment does not provide for an algorithm to determine the amount of the pension, but there is a different principle: each contribution, each zloty that we pay to the Social Insurance Fund for pension insurance, is simply recorded in our individual account in the Social Insurance Institution, and then this sum of the funds that we will be able to contribute to the social security system during the course of our working life will form the basis for the pension dimension. So much for the justification of this bill. I think I will explain the other elements in the answer to the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u75	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have this question: wouldn't it be better to think about a comprehensive view of the issue that this law deals with? I ask because it concerns a relatively narrow group. Of course, these social rations and this argument are widely known because there has been a discussion on this subject. However, issues still remain unsolved today in the pension system. I recently asked the family ministry to take into account the special situation of mothers, e.g. in multi-child families, which for a significant part of the period when they were able to engage in professional activity, had, for example, been resident. on parental leave. For this reason, they are, say, discriminated against by the system. By the force of the contributions that were paid by them, mothers, which somehow gave to the system, for example. 5 or 6 children, future employees, receive starvation benefits and sometimes even do not have pension benefits. And another person who doesn't have children or has relatively fewer children could accumulate capital, earn money, and have a high pension. In the sense of the community of many families, it seems that the contributions of children from these families are in quotation marks. I would like to stress: in quotes Retirement paid to those who have high pensions. This gives rise to a legitimate sense of lack of social solidarity. Such different aspects of the functioning of the pension system could be found more. So wouldn't it be better to put forward such a holistic concept, even have a social debate to regulate this area, rather than in the context of accidental laws or amendments to respond to current needs or to the discussion that is taking place in the country on social security issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me put it this way: today's discussion falls into a broader context. It was mentioned earlier. Senator Augustine has raised the subject of a public consultation here. It is not that such consultations did not take place. It is true that the launch of the public consultation took place actually in parallel with the launch of the draft law in the government on 26 October this year, the bill was addressed by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy to the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers and parallel to the social partners. Of course, this was so subject to the fact that the comments to be made during the ongoing legislative process on the draft law could be considered and taken into account during parliamentary work. The course of further work actually confirms that such a discussion would even say: an in-depth discussion on the arrangements for paying pension and pension contributions took place. It is not entirely true that the Social Dialogue Council had no opportunity to comment on this because the Social Security Team of the Social Dialogue Council held a meeting. This meeting took place 3 weeks after the launch of the public consultation process. And during this long meeting, if I remember correctly about 2.5 hours, actually every organisation that works in the Social Dialogue Council had the opportunity to present its position. The same was true as regards the course of parliamentary work. In fact, all the social partners were present at the meeting of the Sejm Committee working on the bill. The situation was similar during the work of the Senate Committee. The social partners, present here may not be as many as in the Sejm, have also had the opportunity to present their position. Why am I talking about this in this context? Because in the course of the public consultation that took place, there were quite interesting ideas, ideas about how or in what direction. it could be considered to modify, if any, the provisions of this law. I do not want to talk about these concepts in detail here today, but it also seems to fit in with this context, which concerns the date of entry into force of the law. By the way, may I explain that the rapid pace of legislative work so far was subject to this assumption, which resulted from the last article of the Law of 24 November, that is, the article. 23, which sets the date of entry into force of this Law on 1 January 2018. The government wanted this law to be applicable from the beginning of next year, also because it is essentially a law that has an annual cycle of validity. In fact, it is difficult to imagine the entry into force of a law abolishing the limit on the annual basis of social security contributions during a calendar year. This is an explanation, a justification for this rapid pace of legislative work. But, as I said, the proposal, which was adopted by the Senate Committee, allows for further discussion, the date of entry into force to be postponed by one year, i.e. the deadline to 1 January 2019. This is also an opportunity for such a discussion to take place, including those ideas which have been put forward during the public consultation I mentioned, and which, at least some of them, I find interesting. Of course, it takes time for these ideas to be translated into the language of the bill or to be established. It takes time to think, to prepare an appropriate project, to calculate the financial consequences of such a project. I think this annual period of vacathio legis gives you a chance for this kind of work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u78	Senator Augustine, late Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u79	Minister, tell me what were the reasons for this exception so far. That's the first question. Two. I have the impression, in fact, that the first effect is to increase the proceeds to the Social Insurance Fund. Tell me if this is the calculation that you presented, it takes account of the fact that you have to return the lost income to the local authorities. Does it take into account the fact, perhaps at least some simulation, that most likely some people will change their place of employment and work abroad? Does it take into account the fact that a significant part, if not the majority of those we think, of those who will be able to do so, will most likely turn to self-employment? In this calculation, do you take into account additional grants to public institutions which will have to pay higher contributions to the Social Security Office? Is this sum of 5.5 billion just a question of revenue, or does it take into account the necessary expenditure and losses? That's the second question. And the third question. Tell me: how are we supposed to believe the government that it will use this year to take into account, at least in part, the demands of the social side, since, during the time it has now had at its disposal, it has not properly taken into account anything? This is a question of will: do you have the will to change it? If so, why are you continuing this project? [[Mr. Senator...]] If not, please... [[Let me remind you of the time limit.]] Okay, I'm almost done. And if you don't, please make it clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u80	Thank you very much. We'll group up three questions each. Now Senator Florek, then Senator Rulewski. Then I'll ask the Minister for brief answers. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, you said that this limitation is 127 000, this applies to 350 000 people, or 2%. Minister, this year, in connection with the changes that have been introduced in the pension system, i.e. the restoration of the retirement age at the level of 60 and 65, he will also retire... I don't know. There's a speech now. I think about 350,000 people, that number could be 400,000. I have a question: how much will this change cost the budget? 'Cause I think if I count about the revenue you're planning here, and the extra expenses you're spending on changing the system, it's gonna start to overlap with the other one. So I'm starting to suspect that this was just about getting extra money, of course, for today, because in a few years it's going to be a problem again, because it's going to be too little money if these entrepreneurs are going to benefit from high pensions. The second case, related to these exceptions. You said there was one exception, the 60%. from the average salary in a given year paid by entrepreneurs, this minimum basis. Are you expecting any changes here as well... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...or not? And one more question about the micro-entrepreneurs. Now it's a two-year exemption, that is, these entrepreneurs can pay a lower amount for the ZUS. There was an announcement that this period could be extended, because it is now very important for the market to encourage people to work. Is there any change that you are looking for in this regard? And maybe one last question... [[Mr. Senator, one minute. This isn't a committee meeting. This is a plenary session.]] But that's the last question, short. [[Please.]] Why did you agree to this date on January 1, when it is clear that he is unrealistic?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u82	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Let me remind you of the minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u83	I understand that while I wasn't here, you explained the reasons for this financial tsunami in the government and this extra-ordinary, sudden legislative return that you didn't know, neither I nor any other members. But my question... We're about to vote on this bill. Are you, in support of this amendment, able to guarantee that it will also pass in the Sejm? Of course supported by the PiS, because it's just the PiS operating... Will this money be substituted by other means? If so, what is it? Because, as I understand it, you came today and you say we withdraw, we will discuss, as you specifically said... So we're not gonna do anything, because the discussion doesn't usually give birth... can lead to consequences... But the money has to come next year. And second question. As the 500+ system was introduced, it was Minister Rafalska, and she was not the only one, she was very much driving around the country, she praised 500+, and she explained very well. Will you too, Minister, ride with Minister Rafalska in the country and explain the reasons for this sudden return?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u84	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to answer in the order in which the questions were asked. The senator asked why this restriction was introduced in 1999, in the context of the reform of the pension system. If I had to answer this question in general, I would say that the aim was to limit the scope of social security, pension insurance and pension insurance for people with the highest income in Poland. In fact, the parameter that allows us to define in a certain way, I would say, the scope of social security, is the so-called. It's a replacement rate, isn't it? The rate of substitution of the benefit under the business covered by the insurance obligation, e.g. in the context of the employment relationship, the pension which the person reaches after crossing the retirement age limit. So, actually, the assumption at the time was that for the best earners this replacement rate would be simply lower than the replacement rate for the pension in the group of people who do not exceed the 250% threshold. salaries per month. What were the reasons... Well, we can discuss that. Perhaps it has been recognised that those who earn the highest income do not need this kind of full protection of lost income in a situation where they retire. Well, that's the essence of social security that insurance is used to provide an entity with income lost as a result of an event. In fact, here we are talking about two events: retirement age, but also incapacity for work. From our perspective, it seems that we would like the replacement rate simply to be higher, so that also those who achieve revenues of more than 30 times the average monthly salary per year have the chance to guarantee themselves a pension or a pension that simply replaces lost income to a greater extent. [[So, Minister, social justice has decided?]] Well, you could say that. [[Thank you very much. That's what I wanted to hear.]] As for the second thread that appeared in the senator's questions, the thread, I would say, concerning the financial consequences, but also the consequences of the possible escape from this limit of 30 times the average monthly salary, I would say this: this figure also appears in the impact assessment of the regulation, i.e. PLN 5 billion 400 million, that is the number of financial consequences for the public finance system, i.e. not only for the Social Insurance Fund. The impact assessment shows that the introduction of this solution as regards the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund should result in an increase in the revenue of the fund by PLN 7 billion 400 million. This difference between the positive balance of the public finance system and the positive balance of the Social Insurance Fund is due to the fact that this solution will simply contribute to the reduction of the revenue of the public finance system in other segments. It's pretty obvious, isn't it? This is quite obvious because, as a result of the release of the threshold of 30 times, the basis for the assessment of personal income tax will decrease. This will also translate into health insurance contributions. If we put together all the elements that we talked about here, we'll see that the balance sheet, let's say, in the first 10 years of this solution, is actually the same, i.e. about PLN 5 billion 400 million. You also asked me if we were taking into account the phenomenon of escape from the payment of contributions from this higher base of dimensions. Of course, we pay attention to this risk, to this danger and to the justification of the project, and to the impact assessment of the regulation. The problem is that we are not able to precisely determine what the scale of this phenomenon can be, so these parts of the impact assessment, the parts of the justifications that relate to this phenomenon, are quite general. We are aware that this solution applies to people who have actually more than average opportunities, the ability to adapt to the new legal situation. We are talking about the best earners, i.e., as I mentioned earlier, those who have the highest qualifications. So the obvious thing is that we are talking about a group of people who have more opportunity to adapt to a new legal situation than those who do not belong to this group of insured people. And the assessment of the extent of this phenomenon is simply impossible. It is not possible to evaluate precisely, and therefore we have simply done so with the general wording of the provisions in the impact assessment and in the justification of the draft law. As far as Senator Flork's questions are concerned, I would say a little longer perspective as regards the Social Insurance Fund or the impact on the Social Insurance Fund. However, in the annex to the impact assessment, the table contains such data as to what would be the impact this would have on the public finance system in the perspective of up to 2060. Without going into details, let me say this: the positive balance I was talking about, the positive balance for the Social Insurance Fund.... Let me put it another way: to increase the income of the Social Insurance Fund and to increase pension expenditure at the same time... By 2060 we have a positive balance. In short, the increased expenditure on incapacity pensions in subsequent years, increased as a result of the release of the pension base ratio, should not offset the revenue increased as a result of the release of the maximum basis for pension and pension contributions until 2060. This data was obtained from the Social Insurance Institution and, you can say, we rely on this data. As regards the topic of high pensions, which also appeared during the earlier discussion here in the Senate, I am opposed to such far-reaching statements. The Social Insurance Institution has recently simulated various increases in pension benefits in 4 options. So that maybe I can tell you a few more words about the results of this simulation. The first option is pension paid by a person who pays contributions from 100% minimum wage. The second option is a 100% pension calculated on the basis of remuneration an average wage. In the third option, the Social Insurance Institution calculated the amount of the pension calculated in the case of a person who paid premiums at the maximum level during the period of his or her professional activity, i.e. 250% an average wage. And the fourth option that we are discussing today, i.e. a pension calculated for a person who is earning a salary of 400% throughout the period, which must be stressed. an average wage. The assumption was that this threshold would be released 30 times the average monthly salary. The amount of the person's pension would be determined A woman who would decide to retire after reaching the age of 60. In the case of option one, let me remind you that we are talking about the amount of minimum remuneration that such a person has achieved throughout his or her working life, the entire period of insurance. The pension would amount to PLN 1 thousand 179 53 gr. In the second case, it would be a pension granted to a person who would pay a contribution to the amount of the average salary. This amount would amount to PLN 2,000 198, almost PLN 2,000 200. In the case of a person who would pay a contribution from the maximum possible premium base at present, it would be a pension of PLN 4 000 633 and, in the case of a person who would pay a pension contribution of 4 times the average monthly salary throughout his or her career, this pension could amount to about PLN 7 000. It seems to me that the amount of PLN 7,000 is not the amount that we could call "horrendally high or dramatically high," and such terms fell during discussions in Parliament and appear in the media. This is not the amount of a dramatically high pension. In fact, every one of you should wish for a pension, I would say, in a dignified amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u86	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Marshal Borowski. You're welcome... He's not in the O.R. Another one is Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my speech, I must go back to my previous term of office when I proposed that Parliament, regardless of its composition, but not only Parliament, should, within the framework of such a round table convention, make a profound reflection on the social security system. This is the second, and who knows if it is not the first issue that interests every Pole, and if it is not yet interested today, it will be the subject of his interest tomorrow. Unfortunately, this initiative has not been adopted. Although PiS, at the time in opposition, supported it, it was enough to change the chair so that he wouldn't mention it today. More, he served us a kind of tsunami today. Tsunami has to do with it that there are several reasons for it, and it's not entirely clear when it's gonna happen. And so it was: no one knew when it was going to happen. Am I lying? Do I use demagogy? We've heard these statements-- great budget, the best European budget, great balance of ZUS, FUS... right? Well, how else, Minister? After all, wages are rising, contributions are rising, unemployment is falling dramatically. You could only talk about successes and about these successes the Minister of Electric Motors assured us here. And here within this system the ZUS is like the attitude of a red dress, as Kraszewski probably wrote about the Republic of Poland Everyone's yelling, Minister. First, Mr. President tore up a reduced retirement age for himself as part of his election promise, then Minister Rafalska in a great time... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all ……]] ...works entitled: A good change has taken out the smallest pensions, then another minister announces further facilitations for the business, i.e. the so-called. Little ZUS, and now the truth about what I call a tsunami today. It's deeply unfair, Minister. The Lord, as a member of the "Solidarity," though of a higher rank than I am, because I am only a member, and you are a suspended presidian, probably remembers that from the beginning Solidarity has promised stability, stability, understood as reverence for people who worked for 40 and 45 years and have the right to expect this respect. Today you are offering us war, a pension war, a Polish-Kaczyńska war. I'm not gonna talk about whether or not this solution is right. There's some doubt that this rule that there are as many benefits as there's capital... Well, that's what we're talking about today. Does this solution meet these criteria? Unfortunately, I certainly can't gamble with it. Why? That's because the insurance system became an attitude of a red dress. As I said at the committee meeting, an average citizen, a normal citizen, a rational citizen And this is the Polish youth It has no confidence in the Polish insurance system, although it is guaranteed by several decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal and, moreover, by the principle contained in the article. 20 constitutions. If even changes are to take place 'Cause the world's changing, we're changing. This is a dialogue that is needed. The main reservation is that you, Minister, are breaking the acquis of Solidarity. I don't think you're the kind of person the government should be pushing to repeat the lies you're drinking here. The principle of social dialogue has been introduced into the social market economy. Your government was having a party here on this subject, and today you say that the Council of Social Dialogue is a foreign body, that it is best to confidentially talk to relationships, employers, or actually the government knows better. I feel particularly affected because the principle of dialogue is enshrined in the business pact. At least that rule should be respected. Why? It's not just ideology or demagogy, because we all sitting here, we're not able to talk without employers, trade unions, experts and, of course, the government about how relationships should be shaped in terms of wages, social security, contributions. It is in the Social Dialogue Council that this should be discussed, and the right measure should be set. Minister, I know the word "Merkel" scares you, but before Merkel became chancellor, a huge effort was made in Germany to reform his pension. It's been done for seven years, or maybe two years ago, Minister... An extended retirement age has also been introduced there, but as a result of this good mechanism, the retirement age has been reduced for some people because of the lack of solidarity that you are rightly accused of, pointing out that you are not spreading the contribution. That's the second lie. "Solidarity should not in any way be silent when someone is lying" That the principle is supposed to be introduced: as much benefits as capital. That's not true. Well, at least you didn't prove it, you didn't guarantee it was true, Minister. Even if we accept that we think so today, we must remember that tomorrow or in 10 years' time for retirement will work not like today, 3 employees, only 1.5. If it were to be assumed that this principle was to be guaranteed I say it in good faith, Senator. It would mean that a contribution would have to be doubled, and no young man could bear it. Double the current contribution would mean half the salary, including taxes, will go to the state. Then the escape will begin on a larger scale, or perhaps even a revolution. Neither the State nor anyone who comes after you will be able to guarantee a $6,000 or $10,000 benefit. As a matter of fact, most countries have found, in accordance with the Constitution, that social security, which consists of insurance, is not a way of making capital and has therefore introduced limits. The ways to make capital are individual. These are investments, including individual equity investments in systems that may even be offered by the government someday. The U.S.S.S. and the U.S.U.S. doesn't serve to build capital tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or 10 years from now. It's never gonna be a capital system. This is a social system where you have to remember the lowest pensions. In the future, we'll have a situation that's a lie, something that the government blames on other generations. That some, and there will be many, will have a pension, e.g. Six or seven grand each. The valorization will then be greater. than the minimum benefit itself. And we're gonna have a problem. Retired people will say: I get less than the one they pay every month as a result of valorization. It is right that solidarity poses this problem and notes the gap between retirement income. There were many voices in the past, and today there are also voices that retirees have equal stomachs, so they should receive equal benefits. And here's the question: isn't the government going to equalize all the stomachs and give equal pensions? I protest this violently, just as I protest the solidarity. The government rejected the amendments and ignored the aim of The government is already paying less pensions after 20 years. [[Mr. Senator, I'm pleased to inform you that time is up.]] But you have listened to me and you will vote. At the end of the line, five more sentences. Minister... I reserve five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I am pleased that, after asking the Minister's question, I have received an answer in part on the exhaustive subject I have asked. Above all, the question of openness to the debate on a comprehensive view of the pension system. What's my point? It is no secret that in Poland we have a huge demographic crisis. Of course, I very much appreciate benefits such as 500+ and other government actions that have radically changed the situation of families, and there are, you can say, pronatalist actions, i.e. for parents to choose to have and raise their offspring. But in my deep conviction, I'm also saying this as a man who's been dealing with this issue for many years. However, even more action is needed in this regard. We can discuss the rules of contributions, multiples, even retirement age, but for now we have a solidarity system. In practice, it seems that in the vast majority of those who are currently working and are in the labour market pay a pension contribution. These measures generally finance pensions. Those who are currently retired... As they worked, they were active in the labour market, their contributions financed senior pensions, which are often gone because they left. This is the solidarity system. And since this is how the solidarity system works, it is in the social interest of the public to overcome the demographic collapse 'Cause it's really up to fate. all of us, from what demographic condition will be, how the situation will be in this regard. During my meetings with my constituents, with my families, with my mothers, there is often an argument that what women fear is a question of instability in their position in the labour market. So there's a concern that after a woman becomes a mom, she'll be able to go back to the labour market, what rules she'll be able to return to, what happens when she's on parental leave, what this family's functioning will look like... these are all very important elements. But this issue specifically concerns those who have a super-standard number of children and who are somehow saving the pension system. And you underestimate that, you think... Well, we've got an attitude here that the number of children is kind of a private citizen's business, and the state has nothing to do with it. Of course, the very decision to have children is an individual matter and the state cannot interfere with such matters. However, the state can, through its policy, support positive social trends, which will also translate into real economic, economic effects. The French have long discovered that demography is part of the economy, that it is not science. only from statistical fields, but also from the whole area of economics. And many outstanding French demographers have written a number of very valuable publications on this subject. I would not like to summarize these views here, because after fasting there is no need at this time, but I would like to draw attention to this aspect. That's why I, among others. On 19 October 2017, I sent a statement to the Minister of the Family, Labour and Social Policy in which I wrote: "I ask the Minister to consider by the Polish Government the legal solution to the pension scheme of mothers in multi-children' families. The aim is to develop a rational and solidarity mechanism for determining the pension dimension for mothers who gave birth to more than four children, and at a time when they raised and benefited from parental leave, pension and pension contributions were not paid to such an extent as to give them a satisfactory pension dimension. In this way, in my opinion, society is economically discriminated against women raising children, although it is they and their families who create human capital that absorb the negative effects of demographic collapse. I know that in 2013 or 2015 the principle of establishing initial capital was changed, the factor 0.7 increased to 1.3. This is, of course, a positive action and this should be assessed very positively. But that doesn't solve the problem I'm talking about right now. And if this problem were solved, it would probably also be a very important prerequisite for family policy. But the pronatalist one. ....run by the State. That is why I believe, Minister, that this is a matter worth taking into account, because the conclusions of the answer to this statement... I have received this answer: "I kindly inform you that at present the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is not planning to undertake work aimed at introducing separate legal regulations determining the amount of pension benefits for women who have given birth and raised more than four children. I'm not here to discuss whether it's supposed to be four. It's a matter of recalculation, it's a contractual issue. I'm showing four, because in the general opinion it's a multi-child family, above a simple substitution, although we've already accepted that a multi-child family is a family with three children. This is a matter for discussion, but I would draw attention to this problem and call on the family department to include these issues and others in this debate. Mr Rulewski was right in the pension system, and I agree with him, there are stronger groups that are able to obtain some solutions that are beneficial for themselves, and groups that are in a worse situation. In this case, mothers who have had more than four children are far worse off than strong labour groups. For this reason too, as part of the policy of equalising opportunities, social solidarity policy and a policy of reasonable concern for a common future for all, I would call on the government to include this issue in the debates and to consider whether it should be made more concrete in its legal form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u90	Thank you very much. Senator Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Dear guests! Well, I stand before a great moral dilemma, I have great doubts, and I consider it in my conscience, and that is what I have heard here today. In the course of the questioning, the discussion was primarily about those as if the shortcomings of the proposed law. Of course, social justice and the removal of this exception are among the most important qualities that have also been highlighted. As far as social justice is concerned, it is a very bearable slogan, and this can be accepted, but it is only a matter of how it will be implemented in practice. As far as exceptions are concerned, I am a representative of science, technology and I know that there are objective laws in nature in which exceptions apply, so exceptions may exist. I would like to draw attention to such a matter, to share with you my dilemmas on the calculation of this threshold, this 30 times. Well, I think it's quite arbitrary and subjective, not based on any designs or objective rights. I would also like to return to this issue, which has been presented here on a number of occasions, namely that this amendment concerns only 2% of the law. They're working. Yeah, that's true, but it all depends on where we set that threshold. And here, as I say, it's pretty subjective. I'd like to think about this group of 2%. Well, those who make the most in this group will, of course, be fine. I would like to draw attention to those who are near this threshold, slightly exceed it, and ask such a question. Will this amendment encourage the return of young people who emigrated abroad? Will that encourage them? Will this change discourage another group of young people from going abroad? Would it be socially fair for this group of young people who have invested in their development, their education, their competences, to receive as if gratification? I'm just asking questions. And one more thing. Will the amendment of this law affect what we all want to achieve, namely the development of this economy 4.0, or will it provide us with more educated, innovative people open to thinking who are to implement the most appropriate programme adopted by our government? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u92	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u93	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I am quite interested in this topic because I am slowly approaching the retirement age. Maybe I'm not worried about myself, because I'm sure those laws that are in force right now will secure me in some way for the next few years, but I'm starting to worry about the young people who will be retiring in 20, 30 years. When analysing this law, we need to think about what the labour market looks like, because this is the most important issue, how many of these contributions will be paid and how much has to be paid under the Social Security Office. The labour market is primarily the unemployment rate and the number of people working. I don't know what it looks like right now, but we have recently had about 16 million people working in Poland. And that's a certain indicator, it's whether the number of employees is rising or falling. This is also linked to the unemployment rate. The unemployment rate in Poland has been falling for many, many years. As I remember, in 2003, 2004 or 2005 the unemployment rate in Poland was at 20%. Then she started falling and practically falling all the time. At the moment, it's extremely low. I happen to be from the voivodship where she was always the lowest in Poland. The unemployment rate has always been very low in Wielkopolska Voivodship. I think the city of Poznan is under 2% at the moment. That's what happens, but it's connected to the labour market. I will not develop this thought, but I could explain why in Wielkopolska this unemployment rate is lower. Now it turns out... the important thing was to change the pension system, because that's what caused a large group of people to retire. I mean, it's about restoring the retirement age to 60 and 65 years. This year, however, it turns out that this trust in you is not very great, because whoever can benefit from it is trying to benefit from it. We already know that 350 and 400 000 people will benefit from this change and will retire this year. That means you need to find additional resources to pay those pensions. The Minister here gave an example of how pensions would be for women with minimum wages, average wages, maximum wages, and four times that, he said how much the budget would cost. I remember talking about reform and not bringing it back... I then gave examples of what this situation is like when it comes to women. Well, now we know that women retire five years earlier, which is at the age of 60. Women's life expectancy is much higher than men, on average by 7, 8 years, and therefore men tend to have these pensions almost 2-fold higher. And that's not gonna change right now, because... the bill that was gonna change that retirement age was gonna also help make up for those pensions. Of course, not for everyone, because we all realize that women at the age of 67 in some professions could not work. Okay, but now it's... I'm not going to develop it. It shows that a large group of people are going to retire this year in addition. This, of course, will cost you a lot of money. And now I'm going back to this 30 times that's been in force for many, many years, and no one's ever thought of it before to make any changes here. But it turns out there's a group of about 350,000 people who... and they're in a group that makes more than PLN 127,000 a year. It's not a small group. However, 350 000 is a large group, which is why estimates show that there will be additional revenue to the budget of about PLN 5 billion, which is a large amount. But it has to be taken into account that these are the proceeds, that for years the contributions will be paid and then you will have to pay more pensions. Of course, there are again chimneys among those who will have high pensions. 'Cause in the case of men, it's gonna be a lot more than what the Minister said. And those who will have the lowest pensions. And so the budget has to be... If the US does not finance itself, then this additional money must be raised from the state budget. The goal was to get the ZUS to finance itself, and here it turns out that probably these contributions... who knows if these contributions will not be increased yet. It's important, too. It's especially about what the senator said about these families. Women who sometimes do not work for many years are involved in raising children, because they also have to get a minimum pension if there is no other system... Therefore, the question is: is it worth paying high premiums, or will there be benefits? And it's young people who can do great math. And I'm afraid that's going to have an impact on the labour market too, because it's easy to figure out whether it's calculated or whether it's worth it. Today is the fact that we are in the European Union and therefore whether we work in Poland or work in another country or pay taxes with us or pay taxes in another country - Depending on where we're employed. But there is this movement of people. And you have to take this, too. taking into account the effects of these changes. The Minister said it was the only exception. I'd be interested in this case, too. That entrepreneurs can pay contributions from this minimum, from 60% the average, which is determined each year. And they use it very often. Mostly they pay minimum... Not everyone has the confidence to expect that if they pay more, they will have a higher pension. For a time myself, in the early 1990's, I was a businessman and belonged to those who paid more than 60%, but I paid more than 100%. I don't know how it's gonna translate into my retirement... Although as far as I can see, from the information I'm getting from the CSO, it's not going to be a high pension. Well, about that, 60%. , that's it There's an exception, too. My question was whether there might be any changes, but the Minister did not answer that question. And then there's the micro-entrepreneurs question. Because it is important that people who enter the labour market, young people, people after college, be encouraged to start companies to work. And here too, as far as micro-entrepreneurs are concerned, there were preferences for 2 years, it was determined that they would pay ZUS contributions much less. It's important to keep it up. That's not good enough. It's important. I think there's been a discussion, but I don't know at what stage she's at right now. In order to extend this period from even 2 years to 3 years or to somehow prefer young people, first of all they need to be encouraged to work in Poland so that they want to develop companies to enter... Because there will be no innovation without young people. It must be borne in mind, however, that the labour market is changing and that young people are better prepared, better educated at the moment, and that is why these people need to be stopped. I think you should go in that direction to encourage them with some preferences. But right now, as I see it, we're going in this direction to collect extra money and cover... Well, the hole that in the ZUS is big, in my opinion it's going to grow, because this system that we have right now makes the labour market fewer and fewer people, because many people reach retirement age, retire at the age of 60 and 65, and we live longer and longer. Well, that's the truth. We all want to live longer and longer, and this average is getting longer. All you have to do is watch what it's been like for the last 10 or 20 years, how that age has become longer. So that's what's going to happen. That's why it's important that as many people as possible be employed. And in this situation... In particular, this year shows that unemployment rates in the labour market It's gonna fall again. Because if those 350,000 or 400,000 go to retirement, there's gonna be another one in the labour market. And all of this has to be financially reconciled. And that's why I don't look very optimistic in general. 'Cause I'm not just talking about this pension bill. If no action is taken here... Now that there was a moment when the retirement age was raised and there was even someone to blame so as not to bring it back... After restoring this, given what I've been saying, the length of my life... Well, all this will certainly cause here, in the insurance system, problems, and therefore you will have to bear these costs. We'll probably all carry them. And those people who are going to receive more pensions as a result of this bill are much bigger, because in the case of men it will probably be twice as much as the Minister said... Well, it's gonna cost the budget, not today, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but in a couple of years. And in this situation, we should unfortunately, but look... Maybe not, but we should be looking at it in the long run, not just thinking about what's gonna happen this year, next year and next two years. Because these problems will have to be solved sooner or later. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u94	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Rulewski. Second time, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my opinion, a bonus should be granted by your marshal because these, I would say, statutory anomalies require a broader opinion. I'm saying we're dealing with a tsunami. I also say that there is an escape due to a lack of trust in the system, and this law constitutes an even greater regression in this regard. And I asked the Minister. You didn't answer. For guarantees for a bill I didn't vote for, even though Senator Szymański said that everyone... As if you needed a year to think about it. But it's okay. A year to think about it. Okay. The question is, what's gonna fill this gap that didn't come out of anything? And I don't think the government's angry with those people who make more money has served this solution. I say the tsunami is squared, it's at least twice as big, because there's a change in government, a tsunami in government. We don't know who's going to be Prime Minister, so we don't know what the guarantees will be for what you did yesterday. And today he promised less. Yesterday you said this solution would come in, today you say there will be a discussion this year. Well, discussion can lead to an end. And finally you are calling, Minister, contrary to what the old one, the mustache, like mine, and the young one, like Dudy, the military one... You're referring to the principles of social justice. Indeed, such a principle is that as many benefits as capital. I'm just pointing out that the constitution doesn't guarantee it. It is a good principle, but the constitution does not guarantee it. I'm saying that if you're so worried about the pensions of the highest earners, you're missing the constitution, too. But you don't sin. It's just such an excuse because the constitution in the article. 67 is indeed a need for collateral, including insurance. But there's no question of what you're promising that retirement would be a source of, well, I'd say, capital mapping. And it can't be. Here is the senator, who will present in a moment, who will prove that this pension scheme eats up contributions and does not build up capital, even if due to the minimum pension guarantee means redistribution of contributions to people who either had small capital, or very briefly worked, just as President Duda and others from this dawn promise citizens, because they say: you will work briefly, pay a small contribution, and you will still get a guarantee from the state. This is an alternative to the "Solidarity," which rightly puts the issue: as much pension as contributions. And this contribution or capital doesn't come from anything, comes from a long job, a long internship. This is what includes good pension systems, among others. West of Poland. Therefore, Minister, it is time to return, it is time to step off the road so-called. a good change in favour of normality, to which you and your history, and great Solidarity oblige. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u96	You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u97	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When you work on every bill, especially on laws that concern finance, you first have to ask yourself what was the motivation, what was the purpose, why you do it. Well, the Minister put forward such an argument, I would say, ordering, i.e. listed a number of cases where various types of contributions are paid linearly, i.e. in a certain percentage of income, there are no restrictions on these revenues, i.e. A health contribution or an accident premium, and he said, but this one is different. Well, that's... I'm sorry, but I'm going to appeal to your boss's words in a way, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Morawiecki, who likes to say that pears shouldn't be compared to apples. Then don't do it. This premium, the insurance premium is then paid, what will be collected, then paid, and all these accident and health contributions are either not paid. If anyone's healthy to death, they won't benefit from health care at all, even though they paid a premium. The same applies to accidents. Therefore, these are completely different things. In these matters we simply have a solidarity element, and here the solidarity element is manifested only in the fact that the contribution is paid today immediately, but there is a provision which will later oblige us to pay the corresponding amount. So that this motivation, this reason for preparing this bill, Minister, is wretched. I understand, of course, that the government is giving him the kind of reason he's comfortable with, but he's a mess. What's the real reason? The real reason is that a reduction in the retirement age caused people to start moving on to these pensions. The initial expectations, which were so and were published, ranged between 200 and 250 thousand people. At the moment, there are over 300 and 350 thousand people who have decided to retire, and it is not known whether this number will increase yet. As a result, the cost to be expected for the coming year has suddenly increased. In this situation, there was a slight panic. Well, somewhere you have to look for money, and this is a good source, 5 billion, as he found, will next year. And now I'm gonna answer Senator Flork's question, who cares about what happens if it doesn't happen like this gap, so to speak, he's gonna cover it. I don't know if the government will do that, but I'll give him a hint. This year there are good economic results, there is a good flow of funds to the budget, sealing brings results Therefore, there is no obstacle to repeat the previous year's maneuvering this year and to pay VAT refunds previously to the deficit will not hurt, because this deficit will still be lower than the one planned and thus transfer costs from next year, or actually transfer expenses, returns from next year to that year. And that's how this gap is gonna be filled. And this 5 billion will be much more useful in 2019. 2019 is the election year. In an election year it's good to give away some money, it's good to have it. Therefore, the introduction of this law from 1 January 2019 is a much better solution, to be honest, than the introduction of it from 1 January 2018. But let's be clear and honest about what it looks like. And when it comes to the substance of this case, unfortunately, it is such a shifting of these commitments to the future. Of course, it won't happen soon, these payments won't happen soon, because you have to work a little bit and save some of these contributions to get high pensions. But it's kind of like, after we're flooded, so today we're gonna take the money, and someday, I don't know, in 10, 15 years, it's not gonna be known who's gonna have to pay it. Well, maybe it's the right thing to do, maybe this threshold was redundant, maybe it's really something to leave behind, and maybe everyone gets the pension that comes out of his income. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an ambiguous opinion about this, so let me say yes. Namely, with this threshold today, the situation is more or less like this. We can already see that if someone there earns a month, say, 10,000, a little over 10,000, let's say 11 thousand zlotys, then he's about to hit that threshold. The pension reform shows... Since the 1999 pension reform leads to a reduction in pension benefits and a reduction in the replacement rate, this replacement rate can be expected to be around 45%. ... [[50%.]] ...maybe 50% Somewhere within these limits. Right? So someone who made 11 grand. So let's say for the rest of our lives, because it's going to have to be calculated by the average of the pension, let's say 5,000. Well, is 5,000 such a big pension? I don't think so. I don't think so. But of course someone who made 100,000 and we have 50,000. Therefore, the only thing that could possibly be discussed is a certain increase in this threshold, a statement that this span may be a little larger. However, the total release of the pension is already beyond those issues that I mentioned earlier, which will lead to the creation of such caste of rich pensioners, who will have 40,000, 50,000 each, 30,000 after the pension, as someone has already said, with a high value, relatively large, for them maybe small, but for others high. And I'll tell you what's gonna happen. This is going to end with one of the political parties that's going to say that it's unacceptable, that it can't be that way. [[The stomachs are equal.]] And that, therefore, high pensions should be subject to some specific tax. Because they're gonna live anyway, right? They need $50,000? After all, if they get $10,000, it's gonna be a lot anyway. Right? So that's the end of it, because the burden on the ZUS is really going to be huge, given the demographics and what's going to happen to us. That is why I believe that this law should not be adopted in this form at all. Indeed, this subject needs to be discussed. I understand there's already a minority request to reject this bill. I guess that's how I figured it out. But just in case, that's what I'm making, too, because she shouldn't come into force this next year or next year. And last but not least, one more thing. Well, how does it happen that the government is filing a bill and in some kind of extrapile mode, because it didn't consult, no... and then it doesn't pass a month or a half, and the same government is absolutely in favour of moving the date of entry into force of this law? Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, when Members and Senators of the opposition protest, it doesn't matter when local governments protest, it doesn't matter when employers' organisations protest, it doesn't matter. But she protested "Solidarity," surprisingly. And it turns out that's what matters. Without denying the role played by the trade union, in particular the Solidarity Union, I would, however, appeal I understand it's pea throwing against the wall, but it's got to fall. To the government to draw conclusions from this example and, however, to prepare carefully this kind of law. Because for this bill to be so prepared and so introduced into the Sejm and at the moment it is being changed, someone in the government should suffer the consequences. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u98	Thank you, Senator. You have the voice of Senator Borusewicz, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a law that is actually being processed without consultation and, Minister, denials will not give anything here, because consultations are legally defined. It's not like someone's meeting someone, talking to someone, and then it's treated as a consultation. This project should go to the Social Dialogue Council. He missed. If he were passed by the Social Dialogue Council, the government would have to justify why this position of the Council of Dialogue is not included. But nothing like that happened. This project was not on the Council of Social Dialogue, and it concerns a very important issue. It concerns the structural issue of social security. I understand that the government promised But he also has an obligation to do so. That all such projects will go through the Social Dialogue Council. And it was repeated like a mantra, just as we've heard this mantra for the past eight years. And for the last two years everything's been great, highways are built, extra money is given to families, they've withdrawn... we've withdrawn the government says From the reform of insurance. But what does that mean? From 350,000 to 400,000 people this year will retire, this wave is associated with withdrawal from the reform. The difference between women's pensions and men's pensions is 1 thousand PLN. There's a huge difference. The man in this group now receives an average pension of PLN 2,000 700, a woman of PLN 1 thousand 600, over PLN 1 thousand difference. In about 10 years, or perhaps earlier, in 8 years, for demographic reasons and also due to withdrawal from pension reform, the Social Security Office may be in a state of collapse. And I understand that the government grabs everything. It's that offer to pay contributions by... I mean. the elimination of the 30-fold average salary limit in the case of payment of contributions is just a lifeline, or maybe a razor, which the government grabs. This gives an additional 5 billion zlotys of ZUS. But it also makes the best earner's group have a much higher pension than they would have now. And you're gonna have to pay those pensions. I agree with those voices that the next move of this government or another will have to be flattening pensions because, in fact, the chimneys... the ten thousand-dollar pension cannot be maintained. At the moment, 80%. Those who earn the best, over 1 million, and there are about 21,000, have fled to self-employment. So you might think that's what's gonna happen after that change. So we want to make things better right now, and we're only interested in today, and what tomorrow or the day after tomorrow doesn't interest us, because these problems are going to be solved by someone else. That is the approach of the government, that is the approach of you, Minister, to this issue. In order not to be literal, I will tell you, Minister, that the transition to self-employment has already begun in the companies of the Treasury. I will read to you and present to you in a moment Resolution No 811/In 2017 of the Management Board of Energi SA of 20 November 2017 on the conclusion of contracts for the provision of management services with directors and deputy directors of offices and departments of Energi SA. The Management Board has decided in §1 to establish that management services contracts will be concluded with directors and deputy directors of offices and departments in accordance with the organisational structure in force in Energa SA. In §2, the implementation of the resolution shall be entrusted to the Director of the Department of Personnel Policy. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. I signatures of members of the board of Energi: Daniel Obajtek, Alicja Klimiuk, Jacek Kościelniak and Grzegorz Ksepko. I'm reading it because not everyone knows who's on the Energy Board. So President Obejtek decided to circumvent this bill. And I suspect, Minister, that there will be more resolutions of this kind. Before this resolution in Energa already dozens of people, 18, were employed in this way, and now, after this resolution, dozens of people will have to switch to self-employment. That means you're gonna lose those contributions. This is an example of how, in a company of the Treasury controlled by the government in some way, the board is acting. And it's hard to blame him because he's trying to help his closest associates. So that I give you this resolution, Minister, so that you can have it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u100	Senator Borowski will speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u101	Just for a moment, Mr. Marshal. Marshal Borusewicz mentioned this resolution here in Energa's company, which is headed by Mr Daniel Obajtek. Mr. Daniel Obejtek's brilliant career has awakened... There were a lot of question marks. How did it happen that from the position of the uncle in really few months he was promoted to the position of boss of such a huge company, well, without being a gentleman? A specialist in this field? Yeah, but now it's all clear that he's a man of great abilities, really, as they say, a smart guy. Yeah, we understand. What I would like to add to my statement is that there are certain prospects, such macro-economic ones, related to this law, assuming, of course, that there will be no escape in employment... in outsourcing. Because if it does, it won't just be the extra money, but it won't be the ones that are right now. After all, they all pay specific contributions, and if they go to management contracts, then they will practically not pay any contributions or pay the lowest ones provided for in the regulations. So it could end in losses. But assuming that it is not of a mass nature, that it will actually be charged to employees and employers... and employers, because remember that 19.52% of the contribution to the Social Security Office is divided halfway between the employee and the employer. Well, I know the calculations that say that with the number of people who will be obliged to pay these contributions, so their employers will also be obliged to pay, the total amount that will be charged to the employers' budgets... And let's remember that this usually happens in companies with more employees, it doesn't really happen in these small companies. If we add to this the project of employee capital programmes to the payroll fund In total, it can be expected that in 2019 this burden on the payroll fund in these companies will amount to around 3%. It's a very high load. This is a burden that will also affect the investment opportunities of these companies. Well, when it comes to investments, this is it. at the moment, the weakest point in implementing the strategy of responsible development of Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki. Tax collection is going well, the economy is good, so overall revenue looks good, while investment is not yet possible to start. And with that kind of politics, it's definitely not possible, and that, of course, will have its consequences. I say all this with some shyness, because... my colleagues have told me several times not to give advice to this government, but I can't help it, because politics is worse, the better I'm stranger to it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u102	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that Senator Kilian, Senator Rulewski and Senator Borowski have submitted their applications. Is the government representative willing to respond to these conclusions? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No, thank you.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will take place at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018. The text of the Act is contained in print No 670 and the report of the Commission In print No 670 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission has examined the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018 at its meeting on 30 November 2017. The Commission proposes to adopt the amendments annexed to print No 670 A. The committee meeting was attended by many visitors. We have also received addressed to the committee of speech from the National Trade Union Agreement, the Workers' Union of the State Labour Inspection, the National Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity, as well as the National Trade Union of officers and sailors. All the authors of these speeches were present at the committee meeting, participated in it, took the floor. Most of these speeches concern the same issue, i.e. the so-called. defrosting write-downs to occupational welfare funds. None of the senators decided to make an amendment to this issue during the committee meeting. The only amendment we are proposing is an amendment on the use of voivodeship-level budgets in order to allow for flexible spending of funds under the responsibility of these authorities. That's what I'm doing with my report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u104	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Mrs Teresa Czerwińska, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: No. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Senators wish, I can answer the questions.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Blackbay. There you go. However, I must ask the Minister to approach the stand here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Sorry, we didn't ask everything at the budget committee meeting, so I'd like to ask you now. Minister, in the article. Thirty-six, on page 17, is said to be PLN 33 million for expenditure on the Institute of Freedom in 2018. Could the Minister say a few words about why for the remaining years we are talking about about about PLN 3.5 million, to almost PLN 4 million per year, and for 2018 about PLN 33 million? That's the first question. And the second question, Minister, is the expenditure related to the Police and Border Guard modernisation programme. Art. There is an amount of almost PLN 400 million there. If I may, I would ask for an answer in two words, whether these are property expenses and for what purpose they are. In general, if you can ask the Minister for such... and the same applies to the medical emergency services. Because there is an amount of about 40 million PLN. Here, too, if you don't mind, I'd like two words from the Minister for what it's going to be for. And there's a question about it. Is this the amount that we are planning here, i.e. that it will be spent within the 2018 budget, enter into the 2% The GDP that we are spending on the financing of the armed forces in terms of the reinforcement and development of the Polish army? And one last question. Mrs. Minister, how much is the amount of expenditure for residents' wages from the Labour Fund increased in relation to 2017 figures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u106	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u107	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! The senator will allow me to begin with medical internships and expenses from the Labour Fund. I have a plan for the Labour Fund right now. Here, when it comes to comparing numbers from 2017 and planned for 2018, we have an increase of PLN 146 million by PLN 298 thousand. This is about costs related to the implementation of post-graduate internships and specialization of doctors, resident doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives. So that there will be 146 million PLN 298 thousand more. So from one billion 179 million zlotys to... that's what we're going to have next year's growth. And as for the senator's questions regarding, I understand, defense expenses... Well, I would like to remind you that we are now obliged, i.e. government has accepted legal obligations that talk about spending 2% gross domestic product for defence expenditure, and both the one and the other item that the senator referred to, namely both in Article. 20, as well as in Art. 1... yeah? So both one and the other items, both expenditure which is intended to finance the tasks of the Prison Service modernisation programme and those related to the purchase... of property expenses for the purchase of helicopters, are also expenditure that is included in the 2% GDP. And I want to make it clear here that one and the other amount will be included in defence expenditure. So here it is... As far as the directory of tasks to be carried out is concerned, if the senator permits, I will reply in writing. I can answer today that as far as MSWiA is concerned, this is about expenditure on equipment, weapons, but in terms of technical terms and the entire catalog... If necessary, we'll spell it out in writing. And a question about the Freedom Institute. National Freedom Institute The Civil Society Development Centre is a question of the Act of 15 September this year. Here increase the maximum limit of state budget expenditure... Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that this amount of PLN 33 million 600 thousand is the maximum limit, but about what amount will actually be spent by the institute, I am unable to say today, because it is connected among others. with what activity this institute will show, how many proposals from civil society, NGOs will come, etc. Therefore, this is the maximum limit, which is provided for in the Around Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u108	You're asking Senator Klein a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. 20. I think he's going in the right direction. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 20 You are proposing that 2% of the national defence money should also be spent on expenditure in the broad sense of national defence. Wouldn't it be worth redrafting this article so that other expenditure that would be justified in the context of a broadly understood national defence could, as a rule, be overfunded from those envisaged 2% GDP? I'm talking about road investments. They are often strategic, even military. Important roads combine different military facilities or different goals that are of defensive importance. I will give an example of the Kashubian route whose construction is stopped and the expenditure for this purpose is limited. She connects, among other things. Słupsk with Gdansk, and in Słupsk is built a missile base of American and Natowski troops. If we could spend part of the money for this purpose, this base would be connected to seaports in Gdańsk, Gdynia, Szczecin and Świnoujście. In this way, important defence objectives would be pursued. Wouldn't it be worth rewriting the article like that? 20 to finance road infrastructure activities? There may be other road investments or other tasks that would also fulfil this defensive objective. I am also saying this because if the gross domestic product is quite substantially increasing, and this is what happens this year and we hope that it will be so in the next years, then spending money on defence purposes in a rational way, such a strict sense as it has so far, namely rifles, bullets and all sorts of other things, may prove to be not very rational and difficult. We can see how difficult it is to spend this money. Even for strictly military purposes, it is difficult to spend money rationally. So redrafting this article so that it is possible to spend funds more rationally, with the aim of e.g. I think it would be right to talk about road infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u110	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u111	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! [[That's my offer.]] I understand that this is a proposal from the senator. I do not know whether she will be tabled as an amendment or not. [[That would be up to you.]] I see. I would like to point out that, if we are talking about defence objectives and defence expenditure, this is, of course, the budget of the Minister of National Defence, but also other expenditures, included in heading 752 of the National Defence. At the moment, it is difficult for me to respond to the proposal to introduce road expenditure into defence expenditure. I would like to point out that we are talking about defence expenditure in terms of NATO methodology. We made a commitment to spend 2% according to NATO methodology GDP in defence, and it should therefore be considered whether the proposal by the senator is feasible in the light of the provisions of the NATO methodology. Thank you. [[So at this stage, you would rather not support such an amendment?]] I don't think so right now. [[Then I'm not gonna fold it. Maybe I'll do it when I amend the budget bill.]] I would like to say that it is simply necessary to examine whether the concept proposed by your senator could be reflected in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u112	Mr. Marshal, then I would ask you to answer this question in writing. Is it possible, according to the Minister, to finance road infrastructure, which I would say is strategic and even defensive? Could road infrastructure be financed by these measures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u113	I've got it. You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u114	Minister, we have just finished debating a law that, I understand, has an impact on the budget, that is, the Act on Insurance Change, on the higher contribution of those, let's say, the most earners. Do you view it as a budget-related law that affects the budget? What happens if this bill is not implemented next year? That's the first question. And second question. The presentation of the report by Senator Bierecki was suggestive, brief. Is there a security in the around budget laws for the implementation of the two pending decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal concerning the guardians of persons with disabilities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u115	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u116	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the issue of the previous debate is concerned, which is, as I understand it, the draft legislation relating to the pension contribution, I would like to say that naturally this project is not included in the around budget bill. I would also like to point out that the around budget law does not apply to pensions and we do not include pension arrangements here. We are talking here about some issues related to the remuneration system, but only in the context of the establishment of the average annual wage growth rate in the state budgetary sphere freezing or an occupational social benefit fund. We do not address the issue of pension arrangements in the around budget law. This is rather a question about the budget law and possible safeguards introduced in the context of the budget law. With regard to the two judgments that the senator referred to, we are not introducing any solutions in the around budget bill to secure these judgments financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u117	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 19 is a provision concerning PLN 100 million for the modernisation of the Prison Service. Is this money for the construction of the new prison that Minister Jak was talking about? That's the first question. Two. I'm going back to my favorite Freedom Institute again. If the Minister says... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Can I have some peace, please? Minister says that in 2018 33 million 600 thousand... it will depend on the projects submitted and on the activity. As I understand it, for 2019 there are no planned amounts for such activities, because there is only a total of 3 million 700 thousand. That's my question. I also have a question unrelated to the budget, but if the Minister knew... If you don't answer now, I'll ask at the committee's meeting about the budget. Was the VIP plane purchased within 2% Defense spending? As far as the Minister's reply is concerned, it is quite sufficient for me that these are so-called. hard investments, i.e. the purchase of equipment, equipment. As for the details, let the defense committee consider it. I'm only interested in hard investment issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u119	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As far as the Institute of Freedom is concerned, of course I said that the limit of PLN 33 million 600 thousand is the maximum limit, which is set out in a given law. Here, Senator, if I understand correctly, suggests that in 2019 this activity will be much lower. Well, Mr. Senator, this maximum limit, which is specified in the bill, has been increased due to the planned activity of the Institute of Liberty. Will this activity increase in 2019? It's hard for me to answer today. This amount, once again, has been increased in connection with the planned projects to be submitted by civil society, NGOs. That's all I can explain. As far as VIP planes are concerned, this expenditure falls within 2% of the defensive expenditure. [[And when it comes to art. 19?]] About the question about art. 19, where we are talking about a programme to modernise the Prison Service and the amount of PLN 100 million from the funds of the victim's aid fund, Senator... As far as I'm concerned, there's no new prison at this point, but it's still possible to get a written reply in the interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u120	You have a voice, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a request. You're probably not gonna have that aggregate data here, so I'd ask you to answer in writing. I would like to ask you to present what was planned, i.e. the budget, and the expenditure made in heading 752 of the 2008/2015 national defence budget and what percentage these expenditures represented in relation to GDP.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u122	Thank you. As I understand it, Mr Marshal, we can reply in writing because at this moment I do not have such details, and I do not wish to mislead you. We'll answer in writing. [[Mr. Marshal, I would also like the answer to the question you asked Senator Czerwinski to get to me...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u123	Senator Klein, in writing... [[So that the answer to this question of Senator Czerwiński can reach me, too, because it is very interesting.]] The Minister has made a note. Thank you. No more questions. No one's checking in. I inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senators Czarnobaj, Kleina... [[No, not to me.]] ...and Czerwinski. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm opening a discussion. Senator Czarnobaj signed up for the discussion. Thank you, Minister. Senator to the bleachers, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! A few insights... Of course, I will try not to go beyond the framework of the bill, but I think about the most important law we adopt as Senate. Of course, they're all important, but the budget bill especially... The 2018 Budget Act, like any Budget Act, is a law that shows the direction of government activities in 2018 and certain priorities that are being implemented. But a few insights into what the bill is carrying about the budget. Regarding the issue of financing the modernisation of the police, the Border Guard at the level of almost PLN 400 million and including it in defence-related expenditures, i.e. the widely understood financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland... Somehow I can't understand how funding the Border Guard and financing the Armed Forces are the same. Because if we're talking about 2%, GDP, it's in my opinion or it needs to be done so, clearly, that it's 2% GDP allocated to the financing of the Armed Forces, which operate in Poland, and the definition of the Armed Forces is what is... And if we want to implement and we should implement the programme of modernization of the Police or Border Guard or other services, then let's launch a separate program, which we will call the programme of modernization of individual services, and let's implement it. Because then there's this picture that we're doing 2%. GDP of defence spending... And of course, if we're talking about this on the example of an airplane for a VIP, and this is an expense included in this 2% GDP allocated to defence expenditure... Well, I understand that it is necessary to evacuate during the war, and that's probably what this plane would have used as part of the war effort, but as far as the task of modernising the Armed Forces is concerned, this kind of expenditure should not be included here. And that's the first point. Air Emergency Service. Nearly 40 million zlotys. I understand that the main component of the purchase will be helicopters here and we also include them up to 2%. expenditure on the financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The Caracala program and other helicopters have failed, as I understand it, so maybe we can at least make it to the Air Rescue Service and thump it off. Yes, the Polish Armed Forces received new helicopters, which are currently in the Air Emergency Service, and if necessary we can use them for war operations. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think this is the right thing to do. If we want it to be 2% GDP on the broad understanding of defence or strict understanding of defence, let's do what the armed forces are doing. And if it is necessary, and certainly necessary, to finance the Air Emergency Service, then let's finance the projects related to the Air Emergency Service, which should be included in the budget as a separate item. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say two words about wages, which have always been widely discussed. Senator Bierecki, then in opposition... I wrote myself a lot of quotes from my previous term, but I'm not gonna quote them so I don't waste any time, although they were very interesting. Let me put it this way: I understand that freezing wages is not an element to be boasted of. It's not something good freezing wages at all, in my opinion, as an undertaking. And the freezing of wages during the great global crisis... You can say, and the opposition said that: no, absolutely no, you shouldn't do that. The Minister of Finance presented then and we adopted the budget with the freezing of wages. But with such good financial condition, with such economic development... And what's important is that there are a lot of groups in Poland that are pretty good at freezing wages. In quotes, of course. I have recorded not all of them in the meantime, but a whole lot of positions regarding salary: Mr. President Jasiński, 140 thousand a month, Mr. Jaworski, 100 thousand, Mr. Maks Kraczkowski, 116 thousand, Mrs. Sadurska, 90 thousand. Today I read that Mr. Łapiński will be the advisor at PKN Orlen. So this wide range of good wages is expanding a lot. They're not tens anymore, they're hundreds of people. And you're freezing in good condition. In order to save the budget, as I understand it, the wages of a large part of the office staff in Poland. I think they can read and understand the direction in which this bill is going, which will probably be included in the budget. Increases yes, especially for many people mentioned by me, but not only because there is a whole range of people whose name, function and salary can be read on the Internet. It is in the context of the discussion that was just a moment ago that is also of great importance, because the freezing of wages is also what concerns the contribution to future retirement. So today, you guys are gonna fund this cool thing. I will follow the example of the President of Jasinski, 140 thousand a month. Mr. Marshal Borowski was talking about a 50-percent replacement. So you may not count on 70%, because it will be too short a contribution period, but surely such a great remuneration of Mr Jasiński and many other PiS-iewicz will benefit not on the state budget, but on their own pocket and later, in the future, on the pension level. And if, ladies and gentlemen, we add to that a thing that was the subject of suggestion and discussion... Perhaps the President, as in the previous year, will make such an amendment with regard to the social fund. That, of course, is not an excuse. The fact that the social fund was frozen in previous years was a solution resulting from the huge financial crisis in Europe and in the world. And the budget was saved, among others. the social fund budget. I, of course, believe that what concerns employee benefits should be subject to special protection. It is a pity that this law says that the social fund will be charged, as I recall, probably on the basis of 2012 data, and in the case of the remuneration of the management board members, on the management positions. From the 4th quarter of 2016 I proposed at the committee meeting to replace the Social Fund by taking data from the end of 2016 and the remuneration of the Presidents, Boards and politically significant persons designated by Law and Justice, on the basis of data from December 2012. If we add to that, I would like to say that in the case of teachers, there is a 5% increase planned and we will put together these 140 a month... Well, Mr. Marshal here read the resolution of Mr. Lunch's CEO's company. Well, a fantastic man... [[Both.]] Both of you, I'm sorry. ... With a lot of invention. [[Both can do anything.]] Both can do anything. It is not only that he had a very fast promotion, which boasts, from his uncle to the CEO of a company of strategic importance, it is still so profitable. More money for yourself, less money for the budget. Where are the ideas? For teachers, there is a 5% increase planned for the whole country. ♪ If we add to it ♪ I think when we discuss the budget, we're gonna talk about it. .2... 2... or 3% inflation in the category of all kinds of food, non-food, electricity, energy, etc., it will turn out that this 5% increase is not impressive. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, 2 observations on other expenditures. [[Time's up, Senator.]] That's two more sentences, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind. [[Two sentences.]] The Freedom Institute, which as a government institution will be responsible for monitoring and overseeing NGOs, is expected to cost no less than PLN 65 million in 2017 and 2026, of which over 33 million in 2018. I just want to tell you that in the times of law and justice, This is the result of what I read, what was in the media broadcast in Poland 11 new institutions and services were launched, which are financed by the state budget. If we add to this that we are a government that has the largest group of ministers, vice-ministers and Undersecretaries of State in the European Union, we will see the direction in which we are going with regard to the budget: for others as little as possible, the freezing of wages, 5% for teachers, a small increase for residents, but millions of zlotys for those who perform functions in companies of the Treasury, but not only there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u125	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018. This is the law that prepares us to work on the budget, shows how the government will work on the budget, and enables various kinds of financial operations next year. Such laws have been adopted for many, many years, so this is not an emergency. The solutions contained in this Act are not in any way specific either, and in practice they are in line with what they have been in recent years, are similar, so they provide for the freezing of wages, the freezing of the social fund. The situation is not extraordinary, although it seemed to us that since the budgetary situation of the state, since the state's revenues are much higher, as the government says, than they were in previous years... Thus, this law could mobilise more funds for social funds, for example. But this is something I don't want to argue with right now. That's government policy. I am always in favour of saving and rationalising expenditure, so if there is no need to spend funds in an extraordinary way, I will always support such solutions. Although some of the proposals contained in this Act raise doubts. The majority was beautifully spoken by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj and I will not repeat it, and I would not even be able to say in such a way about the various problems which are in this bill, and especially those which will be in the future in the Budget Act. My doubts are aroused, for example. a significant increase in expenditure on the Sejm Registry, which is linked to employment, with the creation of new posts. We were accused that there were still some new jobs, although if it was rationally and accurately calculated, it wouldn't look like that at all. I even had a question: how much has public sector employment increased in the last two years? This question has not yet been answered, but I think that this information will reach us, because reality seems to deviate from what the Law and Justice said, that it will employ fewer people, that it will reduce employment in the public sector, in administration. Practice is the other way around. So here, the 14 million new jobs for the Sejm Chancellery must at least raise doubts. I in my question to the Minister... This question concerned the spending of national defence funds. These are rigid expenses. This amount of national defence expenditure is 2% GDP. And this amount is growing in a really important way every year, because over the years, we, Poland, probably as one of the few countries in Europe, have had GDP growth, even in times of serious crisis. Even in 2008, 2010, 2011, 10 years ago we also managed to bring Poland through times of crisis with a dry foot, more, even we had economic growth, probably not as we expected, but this growth has always been. Now this growth is also, there is even a big one, and that's what we're happy about. And this increase in national defence resources is going to be significant, big next year. So I thought, looking at the construction of this law on the implementation of the 2018 budget law, where you show that you can spend money on national defence resources for other purposes than those strictly defences, i.e. for police services, Border Guard, etc., etc., that's the right direction. So I propose that this area be expanded to include those road investments that are clearly defensive. I gave an example of the Kashubian route, i.e. the express road from Gdansk to Szczecin, which is clearly a road of strategic and defence importance, because in Słupsk is built important, one of the most important defence elements of NATO and the United States, and Poland. There's a station being built, an anti-missile base that... Well, this unit must have good access to the seaports in Gdansk, Gdynia, Szczecin. This road, as you know, expressway No. 6, the Kashubian route, was designed, even announced tenders, but due to the lack of funding, this was presented by the Minister of Infrastructure The investment has been stopped. The paradox for this investment is that for the first time the renovation of this road was stopped in 2006 or even in 2005. Then they said: we are not modernising the section from God's Poland to Lębork, because this express route will be built. And now the Minister of Infrastructure has finally launched this investment, but to God's Pole, and from God's Pole to Lębork it is a road, one can say, as it was 30 years ago, narrow, and it is a national road. It seems to me that such measures would enable this money to be mobilised, with defence objectives in mind as well. Of course, I don't want to decide for myself, because I don't know how to do this and I'm not a professional in this matter, because there may be express roads, national roads even more important, of even greater importance from the national defence point of view. I'm talking about what I know, how I see it, how it looks. It would be worth a look. It is possible that a special law should be drawn up to regulate defence spending for the wider defence of the country in order to better spend resources on national defence. Because as we probably see, as many of us see it, in the past and today these funds have often been and are being spent not very rationally. Now it is clear that there are problems with spending this money, and although contracts are signed, etc., various advances are made far ahead, weapons and weapons as they were not, so there is no. Sometimes it would be better to wait, hold back, not pay advances when there is no need and with the thought that in a few years there will be some means of defence, and spend it where money can reasonably be spent. You remember the invitation to tender for military buses. Right? There was an invitation to tender, Minister Macierewicz announced it, and won the wrong company to win because he was going to win Autosan. So what? The tender's been canceled. He won that Autosan. Are these rational decisions? I don't really know that. Public funds cannot be managed in this way. In conclusion, I would ask you to support this amendment that I am proposing and which, in my view, is quite important. I hope this works and that this operation will be our joint success. Thank you very much. Oh, I'm making an amendment. Wait, I have to sign it, don't I? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u127	Senator Bierecki's voice is yours. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, I think I should be the one to thank Senators Kleina and Czarnobaj, who are so... [[Thank you.]] ...glorified the success of the rule of law and justice... [[The previous governments, of course.]] ...and who so emphasized the good management of this government of public finances. [[Everybody hears what they want.]] Thank you very much for that. Indeed, yesterday's news, which you gave to Deputy Minister Skib, regarding the deficit level of the state budget at the end of the year... We expect that it will not exceed 30 billion, which is actually going to be half the amount planned in the bill. The second important news is that the deficit of the entire public finance sector in 2017, i.e. the deficit of the state budget, the budgets of all local government units, social security, will fall from the projected 2.9% less than 2%. It's worth remembering. This government is indeed successful, two years of state finance recovery are producing results and I am glad that the opposition senators see it. With regard to the welfare fund and the freezing of what has been frozen for many years... This was indeed the subject of many of my speeches in the previous term, every time we accepted budgets, I asked Minister Rostowski why he freezes consumption, since our gross domestic product is mainly built by domestic consumption, by internal demand, so I would say. Yeah, we're freezing off, we were freezing off last year. This year's decision is as you can see, but that means that we are rationally planning state spending in a calm and rational way. A great deal of money has been spent on social assistance programmes and it is necessary to see the tens of billions of zlotys that go to Polish citizens, also to workers, when they talk about the issue of occupational social funds, which represent only a fraction of the funds that go to our citizens from various programs launched by the Government of Law and Justice. And finally, the last line. I would not want this House, where the name of the excellent manager, the CEO of Energa, has been repeatedly mentioned, to give the impression that the Senate is critical of its activities. That's not the case at all. President Obajtek has excellent success in managing Energa, whose results are constantly improving. On the basis of these results, the quality of his work can be assessed. Perhaps, and here I have to say this with regret, this dislike towards the person of President Obajtek from Senators of Pomeranian Voivodeship is due to the effectiveness of his actions in reducing the unjustified costs that Energa once incurred. So we wish Senator Ojtkowi... I apologize, President Ojtkowi, perhaps in the future the Senator's success in this work and we appreciate very much what he is doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u129	Thank you. Senator Blackbay will speak again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two words for Senator Bierecki as chairman of our committee... Mr. Senator, I didn't say a bad word about the budget, because he's not on the agenda, but since you brought it up, I want to say something. I will repeat this and, of course, I will argue this for a longer time: I personally believe that there will be many positive elements in the budget, they are in it. If you are talking about a 500+ social policy, which is a flagship programme of law and justice, I would say that I think it is an undertaking that has, in general, improved a lot of issues, such as the poverty of people who have been in the most difficult situation. Poland came out of last position or the penultimate. So there are successes in this regard, and I will not say a bad word. Of course, I can, Mr. Senator, have a different look at the subject of 500+ and suggest some solutions regarding the link whether to the labour market or not. But I didn't say a bad word about it or about the budget, I just said some of the intentions that the Minister is presenting on behalf of the government and which will be included in the budget. We will have a long discussion on the budget. Now these issues: good management, deficit level... Well, Mr. Senator's been working for years, and I'm sure he knows these mechanisms. Well, follow up on the size of the deficit planned and achieved over 10 years. Then we will see that this is not a record low deficit in relation to the plans and in relation to GDP. But I'd like this deficit to be zero, so that we can be like many countries. In fact, 6 years ago, I remember, they were headed by the Czech Republic and reached a surplus in the state budget. Therefore, with regard to the size of the deficit, I will also be happy if it is not 60 billion, only 30 billion, since you have already raised this issue. As regards the issue of public debt, which falls as a numerical value, this should be welcomed. However, let's see, Mr Senator, that one of the elements that significantly reduces expenditure is the failure to implement the investment programme in Poland. So that there is nothing to be happy about so far, but we will discuss the details when discussing the budget. The last two sentences. I do not personally know President Obajtek, and of course I do not give him a negative assessment, on the contrary, I praise him. After all, what Marshal Borusewicz presented shows the ability of the President: to the maximum of his own pocket and as little as possible to the state budget. These are facts, Mr. Senator. When we talk about raising... wages, of course, I'm talking about it, only if 5%. they receive teachers... Teachers in Poland will easily count... When consideration is given to the remuneration of President Obajtek and others, President Jasiński, 140 thousand zlotys a month, it is easy to calculate what the imbalances are. Mr. Senator, I am in favour of a model that has Scandinavian countries. The smaller the spread between the lowest and highest revenues, the safer the country is and such a country You have to be a role model. And the countries with the largest spread are the United States. I think it's almost 266 and Russia. And these countries are not examples for us. Therefore, the range between 200 PLN raise for the teacher and 140 thousand PLN monthly salary is not... You don't compare that. The remuneration of company presidents is calculated here according to data from the fourth quarter of 2016. Well, that's payback. So that I have no negative attitude towards President Obejtek because he works on the Coast, Mr. Senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u131	Senator Bierecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u132	Two words of explanation, because you deserve this information after Senator Czarnobaj's speech. Well, after 10 months, we have a budget surplus. For the first time in 25 years, but with one small break. As we have noted, we were dealing with this phenomenon in 2007 when we also had a surplus in the budget after the first months. Then the Prime Minister was Jarosław Kaczyński, so we can say that we are back to those good things. There's a series of good things. It's just for Mr. Senator Blackbay. Well, unfortunately, I still have to refer to this demagogy display. Comparing the scale of the increase with the entire salary, comparing the teacher's salary with the salary of the CEO of a large energy company It's really the only way to call it that. But I also have to ask the question: and who's saying it? Platform politicians who criticize the supposedly gigantic remuneration of Energa's CEO, at the same time paid the same money to the man who was going to build a nuclear power plant. I'll remind you, they paid for not building it. What about all the big briefings? Look who's talking. So I think it's very risky that Senator Czarnobaj performed today and that he's going to collect a lot of such entries into the shambukh. Before the budget debate, I call for you to refrain from the kind of tricks that, in your mouth, well, sound incredible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u133	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm in corrigendum.]] As a correction? [[Yeah, I'll get right back to you.]] You have one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm gonna get you a list for the shambucha so you can have it, 'cause maybe you're not interested. I know you're from another shelf probably, but I'll get you a list of people. It is not only about President Jasinski, but it will be useful in the debate on the budget, in the debate on the rights and justice-related remunerations. Of course, I'm signing a negative assessment that you gave to former Minister Grad. I also think it was a negative phenomenon. I'm criticizing it, and I'm signing off on it. And I'm gonna find other names of people on the Platform that I'm also gonna brand. I want to tell you that I'm gonna give you this list for the shamboy so you can compare it. I'm gonna give you a list of people that we're gonna judge together negative. I hope so. And then we're going to negatively evaluate the list of Misiewiczs earning a fortune in supervisory boards, companies, etc. We're gonna need that in the budget discussion. It's like a shambukh, Mr. Senator. I'm giving it to you to read this list that concerns facts, not political opinions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u135	Thank you. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing to Senator Klein. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Thank you.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm declaring a recess... [[Not yet.]] I'm sorry, but the messages are still out there.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u136	The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances for the purpose of considering the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018, Senate printing No. 670, will be held today 30 minutes after the announcement of a break in Senate sitting in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of proposals for the Act amending the Social Security System Act and certain other laws, Senate printing No 663, will take place 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 217. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to consider the Power Market Act will take place today 30 minutes after the announcement of a break in the Senate meeting in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u137	Thank you. I declare the session adjourned until 5 p.m. [[Oh, one more message I haven't read. Now I see, I'm sorry.]] Read it. [[Can I have another one?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u138	Excuse me, one more announcement. The meeting of the Environment Committee will be held today 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 179. The agenda includes the adoption of a committee's position on the protection of the Baltic Sea against pollution and the division of work on the 2018 Budget Law. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 31 to 17 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u139	High Senate, resume your session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Senate, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Act on the Order of Power No. 675 and that this item be considered as item of the 20th agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go, Mr. Senator. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure of the Senate of the Republic of Poland states: the agenda of the Senate shall be determined by the Senate Marshal, and only matters known to the senators from the printed matter shall be brought to the agenda by the senate no later than 3 days before the meeting; in exceptional cases this date may be shortened with the consent of the Senate. I'd like to know, first of all... I was there at 4:54 p.m. to look for a print... I don't remember the number, you have it, it's number 675, as I recall, it's the power market bill. We know that the Sejm probably adopted this bill today and she went to the Senate. Then I'd like to know what, according to the rules of procedure, 'Cause I can see that we're already trying to break the Senate's Rules of Procedure. He's a... he's a... [[We don't want to.]] Senator, then answer me, what an exceptional case this is, with the senate's permission, to shorten this deadline and start a debate on a law that counts 80 pages in a moment. I, Senator, know a little bit about energy, though... Well, I was building a power plant, but I didn't actually operate it. But I do realize... So, as a result, I have a question about how I'm supposed to get acquainted with a law that has 80 pages? And how are we supposed to vote on it, how are we supposed to hold a debate? I don't know... Probably, as I had just realized, the amendments were still tabled. Although I do not know who and how these amendments have been tabled. So I'm asking for a reason. As I realized, the law doesn't enter into force until 2020. So what's the reason for us to proceed in this mode and break 'Cause it's breaking for me. The Senate's Rules of Procedure? Unless I hear a reason. I don't know, maybe we're in danger, maybe there was an explosion at the power plant, maybe there was a fire, maybe there's, well, I don't know, an external threat. But I want to know. What danger do we have to proceed in this mode? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u141	Thank you very much, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a vote against the opposition. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Senate Rules of Procedure, Art. 48 (1) (a) 2 item 8: formal request to supplement or amend the draft agenda or agenda. I make such a motion and put it to the vote against the opposition. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Two bills or one?]] [[I'm talking about art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No ……]] [[Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not allow anyone to speak now. I propose a vote. We are voting on my proposal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 51 senators voted, 46 votes against, 4 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 13]] [[The power is in us.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the proposal I have tabled has been accepted. We proceed with the examination of the 20th agenda item: the Power Market Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 675 and the report of the Commission In print No 675 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u142	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today, on the basis of the article. 68 Senate Rules at the request of Marshal Karczewski we have dealt with the Power Market Act. After the beginning of the committee meeting, the president asked whether any of the senators present opposed the introduction of this item to the committee's deliberations. None of the present protested. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Government representatives were then welcomed at the committee meeting. [[High Senate, please remain silent.]] Mr Tadeusz Skobl, the experts, the directors of the Ministry of Energy, and the Member present at the committee meeting were welcomed. In turn, substantive questions were asked during the sitting. Full answers were given both by the Minister and by a representative of the Ministry of Energy. It seems to me that the doubts have been clearly resolved. I am of this opinion, and I attended the meeting of the committee on this law. After a purely substantive discussion, a vote was held, followed by a majority of committees recommending that you adopt the proposed text of the Act. Thank you very much... [[With the corrections?]] Aha, with three amendments that were taken over by the President during the procedure. There was also a legislator present at the committee meeting. I think that's a lot of information. I can also add to the explanation that representatives of the 4 largest energy producers in Poland were invited to the committee meeting. They didn't come to the meeting. A representative of the Energy Regulatory Office was also invited. He didn't come either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u143	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine, and then Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u144	Mr. Senator, the deadline for the committee's meeting was set at the last minute. How could the social partners reach this meeting? I'm really asking you to be serious about this. I ask you to inform the House of the content of the amendments and their importance for the bill, because this was not even referred to at the committee meeting. And I would also ask you to present the effects of this law on Polish companies. That's all for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u145	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u146	To answer the senator's doubts... about the first point, the date of the committee's meeting, it's for everyone who was present at the Senate meeting... That was half an hour after the Senate hearing was over. That seems like enough time for the senators attending, as I know it, to be able to reach a committee meeting at the Senate meeting. About the issues... [[A rocket.]] [[Was that at the committee meeting, Senator?]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.]] It's a supplement, because it was at the Senate meeting. But at the committee meeting itself. I'll say it again. At the beginning, the question was whether any of the incoming senators had doubts or pretensions regarding the introduction of... or the content of the agenda. And none of the Senators here have reported such a doubt. I was on my way to the committee meeting. I'll say it again, Mr. Senator, I've passed you, you've been going in the opposite direction. So that's all I can say about this issue. As far as the effects of the law are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, there were indeed questions at the committee's meeting about what we are introducing this law for. This law aims to change the way in which the energy market is implemented in Poland. Today it is a single commodity market. In other words, today, when we order energy, we only order energy, the energy that has already been generated. According to the law that the committee is proposing to adopt, we will order not only energy but also the ability to supply power. In other words, all these changes proposed in the Act aim to protect the Polish state from a situation in which, by paying only on an ongoing basis for energy, we will not create any mechanism to support the production of the means of achieving this objective, namely the generation of new energy sources. By giving us the opportunity to order, pay for our readiness to supply energy, we give us the opportunity to build new energy units.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u147	Thank you very much, Senator. The question is Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u148	Senator rapporteur, you mentioned that three amendments had been tabled to this bill and that the committee had accepted them. I take it that, after possible adoption of this law, the bill will return to the Sejm with amendments. That means it's not really the time of its entry into force. Why, then, is this uniqueness in your proposal to the marshals, if she cannot say today, even if she abuses the principle of exceptionality, that this law in the coming days or even months will be passed by Parliament? [[I'll answer that, Senator.]] No... [[Wait a minute. The senator hasn't finished his question yet.]] I'd like to finish. You were talking about energy. I'd like to know if this includes gas supplies as well. Yes or no? [[Already?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u149	Thank you very much. Senator, right? Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, because Senator Piotr Florek has invoked and you are now also referring to the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of our Rules of Procedure, the Senate's Rules of Procedure, let me remind you that paragraph. The draft agenda for the Senate shall be decided by the Senate Marshal, and only matters known to the senators from the printed matter shall be brought to the agenda no later than 3 days before the meeting. In exceptional cases, this time limit may be shortened with the consent of the Senate. The time limit was shortened by voting. Your vote, sir. [[But the uniqueness of the case didn't justify it.]] [[Jasia, is that wise?]] [[If I can answer...]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u150	This was indeed also one of the threads raised at the committee meeting. Mr. Senator, this bill is well known. Its first presentation was in December last year. Since then, she has been very closely consulted in the country, but also, much more important, before the European authorities. It was simply a matter of not accidentally introducing a law that would later be challenged in a united Europe, in our united Europe. Therefore, this attention to the quality of the law introduced has led to the document being so thoroughly consulted. Eighty. a few pages and only 3 minor amendments. Phenomenal! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Bravo! Bravo!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u151	The senator wants to ask. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u152	I didn't get the answer to the second question. Senator rapporteur, I accept with full openness your true assertions, but I therefore have a question: is the decision of your marshal, who after a year of consulting the bill, so important for life... that this decision, to make the bill unique, justified? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u153	Yes, of course. [[About that gas...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u154	Mr. Senator, your Marshal's decision was not the subject of the committee's proceedings. [[Good.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much...]] [[And the gas?]] Gas is fuel. I've explained it before. You asked that question at the time... And this is about power generation, which means... [[I ask: does it also include gas?]] [[No.]] [[No.]] No. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u155	It doesn't cover. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have Minister Tadeusz Skobel, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy. Minister, would you like to... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: If necessary...]] [[Please.]] There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Perhaps we need to say a few words about why this bill appeared. I will also refer to the reason why this law needs to be passed relatively quickly. The Power Market Act introduces an amendment As Senator Pekkis has already said here, the current energy market model. There is currently a single-use energy market where electricity is paid, which also includes power. Currently, power plants, heat and power plants, receive remuneration for electricity produced and sold. Once the power market has been put in place, the generators who enter into the Capacity Agreement will receive remuneration not only for the energy produced and the electricity sold, but also for maintaining their generation fleet in full availability. Why is this change needed? The available analyses show that after 2020 there may be serious capacity shortages in the National Energy System, the generation capacity that is fully controlled and managed by the transmission system operator. And despite the fact that 7 large power blocks are currently being built in the country, 2 blocks in Opole, blocks in Jaworzno, in Kozienice, in Turów, in Płock, in Stalowa Wola which will be able to cover 20% The peak demand for power, this power will still be missing. At present, the single-stock market and the regulations that have been in this area do not mobilise potential generators to build new blocks. What are the causes of power shortages? First of all, it's an advanced age block. In our country they were mainly built in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, especially the 200 MW blocks, which are the basis for production and which in the country are more than 50. Secondly, these are stricter standards for emissions of harmful substances and the environment. In August, the requirements for the best available techniques in energy and heating were published, so-called. BAT conclusions which force national manufacturers to adapt the after-treatment plant in power plants and CHP plants to the new requirements. This means that significant investment expenditure should be incurred or that generation capacity should be excluded, which will not meet the higher standards. Thirdly, for the time being, the power market is distorted. There are no clear signals to invest in new generation capacity, although many RES sources have been created. So far, about PLN 30 billion has been spent on this RES. What happened to the RES? RES is very good and useful as regards the complementary element in the electricity market. However, the situation is that energy from renewable energy sources prevails in electricity consumption. The situation then is that these power plants and power plants must reduce the amount of power that is in the system in order to be able to receive power from renewable energy sources and green energy. Because certain groups of renewable energy, namely photovoltaic energy or wind energy, depend on weather conditions... If these weather conditions were still the same, it wouldn't be a problem, but we in the electricity system need to provide enough power in case the sun wasn't shining if there wasn't wind. There cannot be a situation where the customer of electricity has power interruptions for this reason. Hence the need to create such a mechanism in our system so that new generation capacity is controlled. Controllable, i.e. those that make RES grow, while when there are no renewable energy sources, these generation capacities are activated. And that's what the entire Power Market Act is for. The CO2 emissions trading scheme and the interventions planned under it result in an increase in the price of CO2 emissions may thus result in a rise in the cost of generating electricity from conventional sources once again. In addition, as regards the electricity system, there was an increase in the demand for power in the national electricity system by around 2% between 2015 and 2016. per year. We can face the negative consequences of the lack of capacity that took place in 2015. So we can count on the fact that there may be a situation where electricity supply is reduced. I have two graphs showing two scenarios. And here you can see that if the required excess power in the upgrade would look like this In other words, the year 2021 we are talking about is in a situation where these blocks would have to be excluded, the effects would have been much worse. And you can say this: we today have a chance to build a new market for manufacturers and not look at what is happening abroad. Because we could create such a situation that instead of our own production, which is related to the energy security of Poland, we could try to import this energy from outside, from abroad. Of course, in some parts this energy is imported today and will also be imported in the future, but dominant, in terms of the electricity system in Poland, about its sources of production, are to be Polish sources. And that's what this bill is for. She's here to create that possibility. This law does not close the possibility of foreign companies to participate in the market, it provides detailed rules on this matter. But the main emphasis is that the financial situation, when it comes to own energy generation, is safe enough for someone who takes this type of action to generate new electricity, to have enough incentive and contractual record to show that it is worth investing in this type of project. These are projects worth many billions of zloty. It's mostly for these reasons that this bill came into being. We wanted what's been going on so far, those ways that were once implemented as a temporary... We wanted to end this time and finally create conditions for good energy generation in Poland. If there was a question... I'm probably gonna go ahead and ask you about the financial consequences of this kind of action. It has already been signalled that, as of today, some of these reserves, which are a cold reserve and another reserve, which is currently in operation, will be replaced by this mechanism of the power market. This power market, of course, costs money. In the information that you have probably received so far, it is indicated that the amount estimated by us is about PLN 4 billion. That's the estimated amount. In order to have good information about what it will actually be, you would need to know the results of the auction, and these auction results are not yet known. Of course, we looked at what the individual audiences were doing. I can say yes. The customers who are today the individual customers and are most sensitive to all kinds of changes in electricity prices are divided into 4 groups according to consumption: less than 500 kWh; 500.1200 kWh; 1200.2800 kWh; more than 2800 kWh. This increase is estimated at the following level. The customer, who consumes less than 500 kWh of electricity, will pay monthly for those regulations which we intend to introduce, PLN 1.73... [[Voice from the room: A month?]] ...which in the year is 20.73 PLN. The customer who consumes 500-1200 kWh will pay approximately PLN 4.15 per month, which is PLN 49.76 per year. The Most Popular Size The typical family consumes as much of this electricity as possible, is the range of 1200.2800 kWh. In this case it will be PLN 6.91 per month and annually PLN 82.93. The highest individual customer, which consumes more than 2800 kWh, will pay PLN 9.68 a month, and annually it will be PLN 116.10. So that on average it will be about 7 zlotys a month, but I've quoted here all these ranges of annual consumption so that you can figure out what it looks like. What if we hadn't introduced this power market? It's also important. That's the simulation. made in this respect as well. I have two graphs here that show it. In the upper part we see what will happen if we leave what is, and there will be no power market. This is how prices look, such would be the cost of complementing these sources, so that the continuity of power supply will be ensured in Poland. From this regulation of ours... We had two choices: either we leave what is, or we do the power market. And if the power market... We found that we need to count what this means for the general public of electricity in Poland. With the proposed solution... these calculations indicate that by 2035, with the use of the power market, all electricity consumers will pay PLN 55 billion less than what would have been if we wanted to maintain the current state. We think it's worth leaning over this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u157	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative... Minister, stay at the podium, because I'm sure there'll be questions for you. ...related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Dobkowski. You're welcome. And then you're Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u158	Minister, you said you'd run out of energy. In fact, we have old, outdated power plants, especially 200. I have this question: has it been calculated, what is the average efficiency of all power plants in Poland, and how is it with regard to outdated power plants that have been operating for 30 years and the latest power plants that are in the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u159	I do not have such material at the moment, because it may not be directly related to those projections that are here, but if the senator permits, we will give you a written answer to the question asked. [[Good. Thank you very much.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u160	Maybe in writing the Minister will answer. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Yes, we will reply in writing.]] Good. The next person to ask is Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, does this mean that we are moving on to central planning in which we are planning investments in any area? Well, today you present it in electricity, tomorrow in gas, the day after tomorrow we'll have to invest in water and issue a bill that needs to be invested in something. I thought it was the business that solved these problems. Minister, I'm paying for power, and you're telling me I have to pay even more for power than energy for power. And, Minister, third question. Senator Pekkis recently proved that we have too much power and too much energy, and the gas didn't count for it at all, although if this gas were to run in a pipe and light a match, it might find out that it's not just gas, but it's energy too. Somehow his knowledge is very narrow. He never lit a gas. So what's it like with the power that we have to pay again? And another question. Is the focus on electricity, which today is produced by coal at 90 per cent, nothing but subsidising coal and closing other sources? Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u162	I'll start at the end. It is not a subsidy for coal because all potential suppliers can participate in the power market. It's not advisable that it's coal, it could be... [[90%.]] Please? [[90%.]] But in the power market there is no indication that it is to be such a source that it is coal, that there is to be no gas, that there is to be no renewable energy, if it is already subsidised, so that there is no double subsidy. All these ways of manufacturing are possible. The senator is right that today we pay for the market... we pay for the power. Oh! To be... [[Among other things.]] Among other things, for power, although in the bill as precisely as it may not be defined in the way it should be. [[Yes.]] Anyway, that's the truth. Today we pay about PLN 1 billion to keep those units available, which are already operational. The point is that they're still alive, because if they weren't, we'd have a problem in critical moments. And in the future, if this power market and it will function in the way that I am talking about, which is after 1921, when the first auctions are settled and there are other capacities there, that fee will be transferred to that power market. There will be no two charges for this, only there will be one fee, a power charge. It will contain what is today, plus what will eventually be needed for the development of these new generation capacities. You mentioned to the senator that it was the economic processes that should decide that... [[It's an economic project.]] ...new generation capacities are emerging. They should, but if we look at the last few years, it's obvious nothing like that happens. Because it turns out that in order to have a source of funding, you have to have a way of getting too much energy, you have to have some contracts. If this were not the case, the cost of the investment itself, then without such a security, would be significantly higher. As a potential lender gives money and sees that there is a return, it feels that he has a client who can return this borrowed money, and that it is reasonably certain. And that's what the mechanism I'm talking about is for.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u163	Thank you. I don't see any more questions to ask... [[Me too.]] [[I do.]] [[And me.]] The senator has another question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u164	Minister, you have rightly pointed out, because it is true that the power plant is actually exploited. But isn't it just that the money's been eaten over? [[You've eaten it.]] They've been eaten because I'm paying. Maybe not enough. If so, the price should have been increased. The Lord has admitted to me that I pay for power, which was not before, for energy transmission I pay, I think I pay for everything. Nobody tells me I'm not paying enough, and if he said that, I'd pay extra. But I'm going back to the question. That money's been eaten. And now the power plants are asking for additional money from you under the law. Question is, aren't they gonna eat them again?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u165	New facilities are being created, facilities financed not only from the money that they are. Money from the power market does not secure 100% manufacturing, it's not like we're giving money and saying, "Build it and you'll get a refund." This is only a certain part of the money that is needed for this process to take on a different financial dimension in the sense that it is and is partially secured. Please note that there are 5 years and 15 years for so-called. long-term investments. It's not like we're giving money to invest, and they've got that money forever and ever. No. We support these smaller investments over a 5-year period, and we support them more over a 15-year period. Except there's a green bonus in there. This is something that if the combined production is below 450 per MWh, then in this production we give the possibility to conclude contracts by 2 years longer, so instead of 5 it can be 7 years, instead of 15 it can be 17 years, but after this period these power plants or heat plants, these sources of generation already function on normal terms. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u166	The question you're asking is Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask if the bill under review somehow fits in with this large document, called the European Union's Winter Package or the Energy Package. Will we not have to adapt to those guidelines that are not easy to comply with, as we already know from our negotiators today, somehow change these regulations today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u168	Thank you. I will answer in this way: there has been a prenotice of this document, which does not mean that there were no amendments, because both my colleagues from the Department of Energy and Mr Tchórzewski, who had not arrived so far, in previous days, even yesterday, set out details so that there would not be such a situation that we would have to accept a document that we would have to work again in a moment. That is why 1 amendment related to this and 2 drafting amendments have appeared today. But we are convinced that what we have done already has the basis for agreeing with the European Union that this should not be a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u169	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will follow the Minister's lead because this is a very legitimate, fundamental question. I understand that this law, which we are currently looking at, is fully consuming this winter package and agreement with the European Commission, but at the same time That's how I understand it, Mr. Minister, the government also has a plan to build an alternative to what you're financing. So my question is going in a very specific direction. Is nuclear energy also considered? Does the government, taking into account the requirements of today, but above all the future, taking into account the European context and the energy security of the Polish state, take into account all these conditions plus possibly the generation of nuclear energy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u171	Yeah, he's considering nuclear power generation, although the whole winter package doesn't assume what's here... [[But I'm talking about...]] So that it's not such a combination that it's filling the winter package. I wish we didn't understand it that way, because we don't.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u172	No, no, Minister, I don't understand it that way, I said "plus," taking into account the European context. But I'm asking you whether the government is thinking about whether we're building an alternative. Because, as we know, the percentage of these blocks is very old and they will need to be modernised. Successively, I understand, you're also modernising existing facilities. But the question is, are we just going to base this on those sources that we're diagnosed with today, and we're going to modernize, build new ones, or are we just going to create an alternative?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u173	Yes. No sources shall be excluded. Nuclear energy, too... [[And gas.]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u174	I don't see anyone asking questions anymore. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Dobkowski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to point out that, at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I protested very strongly against the mode of implementation of this law. It is remarkable that in the case of cases that concern every Pole, every Polish company, order a constitutional body, order almost... to force the proceedings within a few dozen minutes. We had no opportunity to familiarize ourselves with this extensive law before. We had no opportunity to know, even in writing, amendments that were not distributed to all senators or to know what their content was. There was no way that the social partners interested in this bill, I mean employers... [[...consumers...]] ...I mean employees, unions and stakeholders, they could come, they could ask. There wasn't a chance to bring in any expert. The Senate of the Republic of Poland has been proposed to decide in such conditions the rules of operation of companies and the energy price in apartments, now and in the future. Something that should be considered here Yeah, I think so. At least for weeks... [[What?]] ...extremely analyzed, recipe by recipe, is pushed through the High House in a way that derogates the dignity of the mandates we have. What can I tell my constituents? I'll tell the truth of course, but it's sad truth. I'm sure we'd be better off talking about energy at all if we could look forward to the government's strategic documents showing where we're going, and that's what we were talking about at the committee meeting. If the effects of what is being done, in a broader context, were shown also with regard to possible energy connections and their impact on the price of energy... However, that was not the case at all. It's no coincidence that there's no one on the platform on the left. You just can't sit like that. That's not how it's supposed to be done. This is not the first time, but it seems to me that this is a very disturbing signal, showing disregard for the constitutional organs of the state. Your marshal didn't address Senator Flork here, which is a shame. We have asked these questions at the committee's meeting, because the main, fundamental solutions, please, will only be in force in a few years. And even if I were to agree with the Minister that time is pressing, there's certainly no time to prove that we couldn't do it next week or next week. I really don't. There is no reason for this law to enter into force, for example. On 1 January, there is no such deadline here. Or so that it must be passed by the Sejm this year. But there is no such obligation. What is it, then, was difficult for us to understand. Because there are emergency situations, there are difficult situations, there are deadlines related to punishments, judgments, taxes; all of this, of course, involves certain dates. And then we don't protest, we understand that we have to. This is not the case here, and that is why we find this situation outrageous. Furthermore, I would like to say that this law will actually increase our energy price in an administrative way. It is difficult to say if; the Minister has provided estimates that this largest group will increase more than 7 PLN per month. But will it be, and will that be the end of it? The justification for this law is the need for investment As if we didn't have banks, as if these investments didn't yield a high rate of return, as if shareholders were losing money in the energy sector, which is gaining so much on the stock market, because it's very attractive, it's not that it's unattractive, and it's not like it couldn't be spent on it from this source. This is a simple method of transferring all investment costs to us, without guaranteeing that these funds will actually be used for investment. So not only are the procedural issues raised by our doubts, but also the fact that it does not come together in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already taken on a significant part of the burden on the mining sector and as a result, the answer will be that this is not the only reason, but one of the reasons Instead of having cheaper coal, we have more expensive coal. Already, all customers were charged a fixed transport charge because they needed investment in the sector. It's been a few years and it turns out it's missing, it's missing, it's missing money. Despite EU measures, And the investment doesn't move at such a rate as to guarantee that we will be modernising the transmission networks in time because, ladies and gentlemen, this sector has done a good job of digging up. And I wouldn't guarantee whether one of the first effects wouldn't be that again, as many presidents and many employees will have great satisfaction with this bill, but they won't be ordinary citizens. It is possible to justify before the Energy Regulatory Office a number of needs, how you have professionals for the heavy money drawn out of taxpayers' pockets, out of consumers' pockets. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, due to its scope, should be the subject of analysis and reflection by each of us due to its short-term and long-term effects. Everyone who wants to be a party to these tens of thousands, and sometimes more than 100,000 people who have trusted us, who have sent us here and who expect us to know what we are voting for, that we know these laws and that they will lead to good. That's why we're here. Today in this House there is no chance, which I regret. And I'm sorry to say that it's for no good reason unless someone wanted to humiliate the High Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u176	Senator Stanisławek has your voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am very curious whether Senator Augustine had similar appearances when the Platform ruled. Now all the neglect... Well, unfortunately, I don't have anyone left to talk to unless I'm heard by other members of the Platform. We have to make up for our negligence. This is not a comfortable situation. However, the Commission has made every effort to properly transpose this law. There was a long discussion, a committee meeting lasted almost an hour and a half. There were only 3 senators from the Platform and they had the opportunity to ask questions both to the Minister and to the Director of the Ministry of Energy. We raised problems. And it's not true that the bill is unknown. The bill's been under investigation for almost a year. A special subcommittee was established in the Sejm in order to transpose this power market law. And I remember that as soon as we started working in the Senate, we immediately talked with Minister Piotrowski about the need for such a law. So that there is neither surprise nor such a thing as to explain that it was impossible to get acquainted with this law. Amendments that have been made... 2 amendments are basically minor amendments, and one amendment resulted from the fact that there were issues to be agreed on in Brussels at the moment, Minister Tchórzewski may have already returned I mean, I don't know what you're talking about. issues concerning the impact of EU law on Polish law and the need to adapt the provisions of the Act to international law. So it's not true that the bill was unknown. It was properly carried out here. I therefore request the High House to vote and adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u178	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u179	The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the review of the Law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 will be held today at 21.00 in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-06-senat-51-2.u180	The next announcement is that, after the adjournment, it will be - It's very likely. The Law on amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 was introduced under the agenda. Voting is also highly likely. Dismissed until 10:00 p.m. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 17 minutes 54]]
