ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In view of the small number of items on the agenda, I inform you that I have made a decision by informing and consulting the Seniors' Convention that we are extending the proceedings by 26 September, Tuesday, and 27 September, Wednesday. The session will resume at 11 a.m. on Tuesday and we will begin at 9 a.m. on Wednesday. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the session will continue until 4 p.m. on Tuesday, because the Civic Platform Club is asking for a break for the away club. Today at 10.00 a break will be announced by 11.00 at the request of the Civic Platform Club. Today, between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m., there will be votes on the passed laws. Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the preparation of the reports by the Senate committees, as announced earlier, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the National Freedom Institute Act The Civil Society Development Centre; the Act amending the Package and Packaging Waste Management Act and certain other laws. These laws will be placed on the agenda before the information. If the High House agrees to these additions, then I'll tell you which points it's gonna be. You're welcome, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u2	Mr. Marshal, the law on amending the Package Management Act is a serious law. It raises controversy, above all, because the increase in packaging prices may lead to an increase in the prices of goods, including food, but we believe that it should be considered at this meeting. But we have fundamental reservations that I have signalled about point 16, the law on the so-called National Institute of Freedom, which undermines the fundamental principle of civil society, i.e. bottom-up organisation and bottom-up citizens' initiatives within the third sector and de facto division of non-governmental organisations into those that are government and those who want to maintain their autonomy, which is not the case in the democratic world. I therefore request that this item should not be placed on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u3	Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. It's not a so-called law, it's a national law, Mr. Senator... Please quote the contents. It's not a so-called law, it's a law on the National Institute of Freedom. The Center for Civil Society Development. I'd ask you to be precise and misconceptions. Ladies and gentlemen, who's my card? I'm sorry. We'll prepare for the vote. Who's in favour of my proposal to complete the agenda for the National Freedom Institute Act? The Center for Civil Society Development? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 61 senators voted, 43 for, 18 against. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the result of the vote, I state that the Act on the National Institute of Freedom The Centre for Civil Society Development has been included on the agenda. Also, the Act amending the Packaging and Packaging Waste Management Act and some other laws has been included on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the points. I'm gonna read all the points that we have left to consider right now, and I'm gonna tell you which points are gonna be. The Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic will be considered as the fifth point; the Act on Airports. As point six, the law on bailiffs and executions is as point seven, as it was. The Act amending the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will be considered, as it was before, as point eight. Point nine on local staff has already been considered. Act on amending the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland... This bill would remain as point ten. The Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases will be considered as point 11. The Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws will be the twelfth point. The Social Assistance Act, paragraph 13. The Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel will be paragraph 14. The Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation will be considered as point 15. We propose that the next item in the amended order be the point concerning the National Freedom Institute Act 16th Act amending the law on the Code of Offences The Act amending the Law on the Management of Packaging as point 18; the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Environment as point 19; the draft Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction; the 20th Section; Information from the Activities of the National Council of Courts in 2016. The 21st Section; information from the Council of Ministers on the state of implementation of the National Roads Construction Programme for the years 2014-202023 If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up at Lisbon on 11 March 1993. The text of the Act is contained in print No 598 and the report of the Commission In print No 598 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Sweden, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, which on 20 September worked on the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up at Lisbon on 11 March 1993. The Agreement entered into force on 9 October 1993. Its provisions concern the provision of a full protection agreement and the possibility of redress before an international investment tribunal. As indicated by the justification of the draft law, such agreements were concluded by Poland with most Member States of the European Union. The investment protection agreements concluded between the Member States of the European Union are currently being challenged by the European Commission due to their non-compliance with European Union law. The European Commission is concerned that the provisions of agreements on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, including the agreement being terminated, overlap or may conflict with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular with the principles of freedom of movement of capital, freedom of establishment, freedom to provide services and fundamental principles of European Union law, such as principles of primacy, unity, efficiency and legal certainty of the European Union. The European Commission also has reservations about the settlement of investment disputes, which it considers to be contrary to the exclusive competence of the courts of the European Union. As regards Poland, the European Commission has concluded informal proceedings and is considering initiating formal proceedings on the non-compliance of the terminated agreement with European Union law. The agreement, in accordance with its Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, shall apply for 10 years from the date of entry into force. It is automatically extended for further periods of five years and the termination of the contract may take place only in the period preceding the end of its 10-year or 5-year duration. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Quiet, Senators! Quiet, please!]] Therefore, an effective declaration of termination should be made by 8 October 2017 at the latest and the following by 8 October 2022, i.e. we would have to wait another 5 years. On the basis of the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 investment contracts concluded before the entry into force of its termination shall continue to be protected under the contract for 10 years from the date of its termination. The draft law comes from the Government's submission and was the subject of the Parliamentary work of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Commission recommended the adoption of the Law without amendments and the Sejm adopted the Act at its forty-seventh meeting on 15 September 2017 in the wording of the submission. The law in the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office does not raise any legislative objections. The Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union adopted the proposed law at its 100th meeting on 20 September 2017, 5 senators voted in favour and 2 abstentions. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I recommend that the High House adopt a law which aims to give its consent to the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up at Lisbon on 11 March 1993. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u5	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u6	Mr. Senator, I have a question. We know that this agreement, as you pointed out in your statement, was concluded on 11 March 1993, but it was not the only agreement concluded by the Polish Government. Poland in this period, in the period prior to its entry into the European Union, has concluded many such agreements. So I have a question for you. Will all contracts have to be terminated? Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u7	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, Yes, indeed Poland with most countries of the European Union, with the exception of Malta and Ireland, has signed agreements. Italy has already concluded an agreement. The information we have here in the material, also provided at the committee's meeting, shows that all contracts will have to be terminated.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u9	Thank you. Is there anyone else? Senator Maciej Łuczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, has the European Commission opened formal proceedings for the non-compliance of such agreements with European Union law vis-à-vis other countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u12	I have a question about the schedule of these terminations. Since all the agreements with the countries of the European Union are to be terminated, I would like to know whether the time schedule for the statements was presented at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u13	Anybody else want to ask you a question? I don't see any volunteers. Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Maciej Łuczak asked about other countries. Indeed, such formal proceedings are taking place against Austria, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Sweden and Romania. That's what we have in the materials. This was not the subject of the committee, but this is the information we have. The timetable has not been presented. I think it might be a question more to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u15	Thank you. Anyone else want to ask a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u16	I would like to ask why Portugal, which is also a member of the European Union and the position of the European Commission, is the same as Poland, is not the initiating party here, but rather, as I understand it, is the party that opposes this legislation, this declaration.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u17	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u18	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This matter was raised at the committee meeting. And now I am. According to informal discussions, the Portuguese party is not interested in termination of the agreement. We are obliged to terminate all contracts, and it is known that there are five-year periods. If we do not deliver this agreement by 8 October 2017, we are exposed to the fact that the European Commission will start proceedings, we are exposed to the initiation of proceedings against Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Slugocki, and then Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u20	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Senator, rapporteur, I have a question for you. I understand that all other countries, today the Member States of the European Union, but those which joined the Union together with Poland on 1 May 2004 and later, are also obliged to terminate bilateral agreements of this type which they have concluded with other Member States before accession to the European Union. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u21	Yes. The Commission has identified such agreements as incompatible with European Union law and has committed all Member States to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u22	Mr. Senator Grabowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the termination of this agreement. Did I understand correctly that the European Commission has concluded its proceedings on the non-compliance of this act? Only that I would like to know whether this was a proceeding in relation to Poland or to Poland and Portugal. I took that as a matter of fact, that was the case. Was it conducted against our country? The deal's bilateral, isn't it? Portugal is not particularly interested in the termination of this agreement. We want to follow the guidelines of the European Union, but this procedure is against us, against Portugal and against us. How would you explain that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u24	Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Klein, please. And then there's Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u25	Mrs Marshal, Mr Rapporteur, this law regulated the principle that... and it was actually directed... it was introduced to encourage foreign investors to invest in Poland this first period after the changes. And she gave part of the Polish judicial authority to international arbitration. Of course, here Portugal's example is that we even had a rather serious dispute over the privatisation of one of the large companies. And this international arbitration, to which we have surrendered this power, after the termination of the said agreement, will cease to apply. Does this mean that from this moment on all matters, disputes related to investments and relations between Polish and Portuguese investors will be settled by Polish courts or by another arbitration court or by another European court? [[Thank you very much. And then there's the senator...]] Because it seems to me that the termination of this agreement is simply in the interest of Poland. I am convinced that it is good that we are saying this, but how will all this be regulated after the entry into force of this notice?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u26	Thank you, Senator. Senator Piotr Wach. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u27	Thank you. You gave very interesting information, which was not at the committee meeting, and I did not ask about the 10-year period of protection in relation to investments already in existence. Do you know whether you can answer whether this is based on the provisions of the Treaty, whether it is based on the content of this agreement, or whether it is based on the general line, that such agreements are concluded in this way, i.e. with a 10-year follow-up to existing investments?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u28	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo, I'll answer Senator Wach's question here first. This is directly from the contract. In my report, I said that on the basis of Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 investment contracts made prior to the entry into force of the notice shall continue to be protected under the contract for 10 years from the date of termination. So that's the deal. Against whom there is a course of action That's what Senator Grabowski asked you. In November 2016, we have such information in the materials, the European Commission has completed the informal EU Pilot proceedings launched in June 2015. This informal procedure was against Poland, but probably also against all Member States that had these agreements. It is also considering the initiation of a formal procedure on the non-compliance of the agreement with European Union law. So practically both Poland and Portugal or any other country are putting themselves at risk here that there will be such formal proceedings. And as I answered here earlier, such formal proceedings are already taking place against Austria, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Sweden and Romania. Senator Klein asked here about the procedure. I'll be honest with you... maybe the minister here can describe this procedure more clearly. She wasn't described that way in the materials. So I'd ask her to address this question to the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u30	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have representatives of both departments today: Minister Jacek Czaputowicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Since the Senator rapporteur answered all the questions and questions correctly, I will only complete the answer to the last thread that appeared in the senator's question on how to settle disputes after the termination of the agreement, as we hope. Then, normally, proceedings take place before national courts, and this is, as the senator mentioned, a solution of course beneficial from the perspective of the Polish side, for our entrepreneurs, for the Polish side. Therefore, as I say, national law properly protects the interests of all parties operating in the Polish jurisdiction. For this reason, cases will be dealt with by national courts. So that we hope that the report... the bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment will meet with the favor of the senators. We will be obliged to adopt a bill and a positive recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u32	Minister, please stay, or there may be more questions... Oh, there are questions for the Minister. Stay in the podium. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. First Senator Grabowski, I saw him first. Then Senator Włosowicz and Senator Bierecki. You're welcome. Minister, you're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a brief question about the size of the investment. Does the Ministry know the scale of investments protected by this agreement, which are implemented in Poland by Portugal, Portuguese enterprises, and does it know the value of Polish investments in Portugal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u34	Thank you very much. Senator Włosowicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a legal question. The Senator rapporteur said that we have until 7 October this year to terminate this agreement. So I have a question for you. I understand that if we say it today's decision, we follow the recommendations, the expectations of the European Union. But is it not at the same time that we are somehow doing our homework for the Republic of Portugal, which will not do so and will also do so? Do you know that the European Commission can take any legal action against Portugal? I'm just asking because... if you were. Have we ever forgotten about some agreement that we're about to make, and someone else would have said it, and we wouldn't have done it, then maybe there'd be grounds for punishing our country or another country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Bierecki and there will be answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u37	Minister, I have the same question as I had to the rapporteur: when will the life of all these BITs or those bilateral investment protection agreements end? What's the schedule for pronouncements? Can we expect to say goodbye to this souvenir this year after the time when Poland was not in the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u38	Thank you very much. Minister, you have your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u39	Thank you so much for the questions. The first concerned the size of the investment. Well, there's a big gap here. All Portuguese investments All of them, because it is not that some part of them are protected investments, but only that agreement is covered by all the investments of the country concerned. This is about EUR 1 billion versus about EUR 50 million of Polish investments in Portugal. I think that this is also a sufficient answer to your question as to why you are interested in only one party and not the other. The second question, concerning what will happen if Poland does not do its homework, which is why the consequences affect the other party. I think that, referring to what the Senator rapporteur was talking about, we have two modes. We seek and seek this mild way of putting an end to the agreement and therefore seek its termination. However, if the agreement is not terminated, it will be terminated. So this is the job that we're trying to do, because we've got informal proceedings against us. At the same time, until there is a clear assessment We have recommendations from the European Commission on BITs until there is also a clear assessment of the expiry of these agreements, sanctions, when we are talking about potential sanctions, will be addressed to the so-called. the new Member States. When they're over... When will they expire or when BITs will be solved or spoken... I'm sorry, but I don't have a schedule for other agreements with the other Member States. As long as my memory doesn't confuse me, in the next two or three years, we should be able to terminate these contracts.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u40	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first question concerns the question of termination, or actually the pressure of the European Union on this matter. I understand that the termination of the agreement is beneficial for us, please confirm that. But why is this pressure just on us? Why is it so unsymmetrical? Well, maybe it's on the Portuguese side, too, but we don't know anything about it. Do you, I would say, have you consulted the language on this issue, or have you formally asked the European Union to explain why only one party is being pushed in the case of a symmetrical bilateral agreement? Well, there are 2 countries in this case. And question two. Is this really good for us in the long run? That is, whether it will be so that some countries will resist this pressure from the European Commission and will continue to be subject to binding bilateral agreements. In this case there will be 2 legal regimes. Which regime favours our Polish entrepreneurs more?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask whether any such agreements with other countries have already automatically expired because they have been concluded, or have been terminated, by means of an agreement between our countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u44	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u45	The first question about termination and its advantages or disadvantages. Recognizing the Polish judicial jurisdiction as symmetrical and competent to settle disputes is beneficial for us. Moreover, none of the countries that have concluded such agreements with us and which are still in force do not question the Polish jurisdiction at the moment, does not regard this jurisdiction as the one which would call into question the clarity and transparency of procedures. The extension of the moment of termination of these agreements is often due to the fact that there is an interest in normalising these relations with the Polish party. Without a doubt... There are doubts about other new Member States. Hence the initiation... of this case with Poland would give an excuse to apply faster procedures to other Member States of our region, and here, let's say, this interest is less. Thus, this recognition of Polish jurisdiction as appropriate is definitely beneficial to our party. The history of proceedings before arbitration courts in disputes is that Poland has successfully won many of these cases, but this entails huge costs. The termination of this agreement, as I say, is beneficial for the Polish side, including for Polish entrepreneurs. The case is... It's not an unbalanced treatment. As I say, the matter concerns both parties to the agreement. At the same time, as I say, this situation is more beneficial to us, which is why we are those who started this exchange of diplomatic notes with Portugal. Have any of these contracts expired yet? Yeah, I got... I'm sorry, I have to use the materials because I can't remember which ones have expired... I'm gonna need your backup. You're welcome. [[Chief Specialist at the Department of International Cooperation at the Ministry of Development Joanna Bek: Thank you very much. Joanna Bek, Ministry of Development...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u46	Speak to the microphone. You can sit down and talk in the microphone to make it register.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u47	Good morning. Joanna Bek, Ministry of Development. I answer that question. Poland has 23 such agreements. She never made a deal like this with Ireland and Malta. Italy gave us an investment protection agreement in 2013. There was a 5-year investor protection clause. This clause will expire next year, and then the agreement will be fully terminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u48	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Minister, thank you very much. Would Minister Jacek Chaputowicz like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jacek Chaputowicz: No.]] No. Thank you very much. Thank you, ministers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much to the ministers and your colleagues. We proceed with the examination of the sixth item of the agenda: the Law on State-owned Enterprise of The text of the Act is contained in print No 585 and the report of the committee In print No 585 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Infrastructure Commission discussed the project on 20 and 21 September. This is a draft by Members. What changes the bill? What are his goals? What's his job? It replaces the Act of 23 October 1987 on the State-owned company The contested law sets out the subject-matter of the activity, organisation and functioning of the state-owned enterprise of the Airports. It sets out, as I said, the subject of the operation and indicates that the main tasks of the company are the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, operation of airports and ground-based aircraft, as well as the provision of services in the field of take-off, landing and parking of aircraft. What are the main assumptions contained in the proposed law? Substantial changes are being made with regard to the authorities of the company.Aeroports. Until now, in accordance with the 1987 Act, the main bodies were: the Chief Executive, the Assembly of Delegates and the Staff Council. It will now be the President and the Supervisory Board. These are the main changes. Mrs. Marshal, I will now briefly summarise the proceedings of the committee. We started by consulting the government because it wasn't a government project. On 20 September, the official position of the government was not presented. We were informed that the project was discussed at the meeting of the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, where it was positively assessed. As there were no authors at the committee meeting on 20 September, no Members were present, no questions were asked to the authors. The Commission addressed e.g. legal analysis of the law, as the Legislative Office proposed 14 amendments to the 7 substantive amendments concerning the detailed arrangements contained in the Law and 7 of a linguistic and legislative nature. In the discussion of the project three senators spoke: Senator Florek, Senator Dobkowski and Senator Włosowicz. Because we didn't have the opportunity to ask questions to the authors of the bill, the chairman of the committee, Senator Rooster, has interrupted the committee meeting. We restarted it the next day, which is yesterday, at 9:00. We had a representative of the authors who presented what I said at the beginning, said what was at the heart of the amendment of the law, that because of the new investments, especially the intention to build, what the Polish government officially announced 3 days ago, the Central Airport... that this is a way out against this new investment, this great challenge. These changes are among others. It's caused by it. Concerns were also expressed, resulting in possible changes. These were comments or questions from the crew. She replied that these requests were taken into account, since the co-decision of the company would also depend on the crew, as it would have its representative on the board. Two requests were made: the first, Senator Flork, to reject the bill and the second, Senator Cock's president, to accept it without amendment. First, as far as possible, Senator Flork's motion was overruled. Not accepted: 1 vote in favour, 7 votes against. Senator Rogut's motion was put to the vote: there were 7 votes in favour, 1 vote against, i.e. it was accepted, which is equivalent to a position expressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, which asks the High House to adopt this law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u50	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have this question: was the bill consulted with the crew, i.e. what was the position of the trade unions and the employee council in relation to this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u52	Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u53	At the meeting of the committee, a trade union representative was present and expressed a negative view on this law, but he also said that the crew saw the need to amend the law in its present form.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u54	Thank you. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u55	I have more questions, then. Well, maybe I'll ask you a few questions right away if there are no other questions. I would like to ask you to clarify this composition of the supervisory board. Because it's written that the board of directors has three, five members, which means there are forks here. And what does it mean that the members of the supervisory board are appointed for a joint five-year term? What does this joint five-year term mean? Another question. Has the pact in the company, as far as trade unions are concerned, been made? PPL is subject to registration, it is known that each company must be entered. What register should be entered in the register and what is written in the act then? Maybe that's it for now, and then again, if there's no more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u56	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u57	Thank you. Mr. Senator, as far as this joint term of office of the supervisory board is concerned, I was actually the person who asked you about it. With regard to a well-established legal interpretation, it is such that this common term begins and lasts until a given moment, but if, for various reasons, someone ceases to be a member of the supervisory board and a new person comes to this place, it will not mean that the term of office of that person runs from the beginning, only as if it replaces the person who preceded it, and that new person's membership lasts until the original period of the supervisory board. That's what this is all about. It's written in the bill. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 17 states that the members of the Supervisory Board are appointed for a joint five-year term. As for the register to which it is to be entered, the authors actually agreed that it is not quite correctly written, because here we are dealing with a hybrid, a certain dualism. This company will be sort of entered in two places. On the one hand, it will be entered in the register of state-owned enterprises and on the other To the National Court Register. This was brought to your attention by your counsel, proposing an appropriate amendment. The authors agreed that this was a reasonable solution, but after consulting the patron, we agreed that it was possible to adopt this law in this form and later to amend it efficiently, so that the legal shortcomings that do not disqualify this law, supplement or correct it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u58	Any more questions? Senator Florek? [[Well, maybe I'll ask the last one.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u59	You spoke about the justification of this project and what Mr Suski said, but I read the justification of this project which was submitted in the Sejm. Did you read it, too? Are these reasons the same? Is what Mr Suski said and what was brought in the Sejm correct? Is that the same justification? Maybe I'll ask you a second question right away. [[Yes, please.]] ...the question of the government's position. Because I recall that the lady who was at the meeting said she didn't have a government position. Would you mind explaining that? If you don't, I'll be asking the government for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u60	Good. Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Grabowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I just have one quick question. According to the Legal Office's opinion, there is a record of the appointment of 3 and 5 persons to the Supervisory Board, which will include at least one representative of the crew. Why would you write that down? Was that the subject of a committee meeting? It could be that there's only one, and there could be five of them. Right? They could all be members of the board of directors. What will be the procedure for selecting members of the supervisory board in the light of the revision of this law and its regulations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u62	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u63	I reply to Senator Flork: I cannot tell at this point whether what Mr Suski has presented to us is consistent with the reasons for the Sejm. As for the second question, Senator Grabowski's question, there was no discussion about it. We know as much as we can read from the project, so that's how it's defined. We're here to see the Minister. This is the person responsible for the appointment of both the President and the Supervisory Board. I don't think the senator will blame me if I ask you to address this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u64	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. We have Minister Jerzy Szmit, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the bill is already a law because it was adopted by the Sejm. The State-owned company sporty Lotnicze is a parliamentary initiative, which has been stressed on several occasions. The government was working on an opinion on this legislation. Finally, the project was assessed after an inter-ministerial consultation, which lasted relatively short because the parliamentary project required a rapid process. Those requests were considered at the permanent committee meeting. And there is generally a positive opinion of the Committee of the Standing Council of Ministers, which is the most important cell recommending materials prepared for the meeting of the government. Comments were also made by various resorts, but, as Senator Jacek Włosowicz explained, these were not comments that would disqualify this project. And then there's the project. As regards further work and implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say here that we need to see this project in the whole context of the development of Polish aviation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today we see a huge increase in air traffic in Poland. Not only in Poland, Europe and the world, but we feel it especially; basically, traffic is growing at all communication airports in Poland, and it is growing very strongly. An example is Chopin Airport in Warsaw. This year, according to forecasts that are no longer based on forecasts but on real results, the number of passengers using the airport will exceed 15 million. Let me remind you that last year it was less than 12 million, so we have a huge growth. This accelerates the decision and work on the Central Communication Port. I think that in the near future, the public will be informed of the next decisions, the next steps in this matter. However, in order for us to be able to operate passengers efficiently until the launch of the Central Communication Port, it is necessary to manage Chopin's Airport efficiently, especially Chopin's Airport, because there is more than 40% there. movement carried out in Poland, but of course also other airports. And that's the main idea of this bill. The aim is to make decision-making processes so that management processes can be carried out more efficiently. And I think... I'm convinced that this bill is really fulfilling that purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u66	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Who wants to ask such a question? Senator Grabowski, then Senator Florek. And then there's a break.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. It'll be short. I'll repeat my question. What is caused by the record that at least one member, a crew member, will be part of the 5-member supervisory board? Why is there such a record? And how many of these crew members will actually be appointed to the company's supervisory board? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u68	And Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, perhaps you could explain why you agreed to the parliamentary project. Why, knowing that this is a strategic and important company, didn't you prepare a government project? Because this parliamentary project is very complicated; I will talk about it later in my speech. So why didn't you decide on your own project? Why so expensive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u70	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u71	With regard to the first question concerning the members of the Supervisory Board, how to appoint them, this is covered by the Supervisory Board, Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1: The Supervisory Board shall have from three to five members, including a minimum of one representative appointed by PPL staff. I think the text of this paragraph is clear. I want three to five members. The Minister must be among these members, whether among these 3 or 5 members. Whether the Council has 3 members or 5 members, there may be a minimum of 1 employee representative. The word "minimum" is also clear. So it can also be that there will be more of these employees' representatives, and we can assume that, because this possibility is given to the minister responsible for transport. How he's gonna use it is up to him. In any case, this is an unambiguous record which was adopted by the Sejm. About the second question... It is a parliamentary initiative. The government does not influence the parliamentary initiatives. There is a procedure in line with the Constitution that talks about how draft laws go to the Sejm. In this case, it was a parliamentary procedure. The Sejm accepted the version proposed by the initiators, the government supported this initiative 'Cause that's the way it's gonna be. With certain comments which do not preclude its implementation at all. So I think we're getting into some sort of competence here and wondering why the government did something or didn't do something... we have as a government a lot of different things that we're working on, we're working on hundreds of bills, so we have to do some sort of gradation in all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u72	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 11 a.m. And at 11:00, we'll be back to the Minister's questions, because there'll be questions. I've already got a call. Thank you, Minister. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 00 to 11 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u73	I'm reopening the session. Before the recess, we were in the process of asking questions to the minister. We'll wait for a representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure. The Ministry of Infrastructure represents the Undersecretary of State Jerzy Szmit. Do we have any idea where the Minister is? Does anyone have any idea where Minister Szmit is? Why can't he honor us with his presence? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, do you know where Minister Szmit is? [[Mr. Marshal, before the announcement of the break, I asked the Minister... the Minister said he had an appointment with the Ministry earlier. He said he'd come back, of course.]] [[Can you in the meantime...]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u74	Could you tell the marshal how the agenda will be implemented within the next few hours? [[Two hours ago, it was spoken.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u75	This was discussed by your Marshal Karczewski at 9:00 a.m. I don't know if the senator was in the courtroom... This order has been handed over to the senators. We want to move on to the votes on those points that will be considered by then at 4:00 p.m. [[What about the order?]] Well, point six, that's the PPL bill, then point seven and eight, one at a time. [[Voice from the room: What about the ninth?]] Nine years ago, he was considered. And we will continue on Tuesday from 11:00 p.m. and Wednesday from 9:00 p.m. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Minister is on his way. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 03 to 11 minutes 08]] I'm reopening the session. You're the minister. We interrupted the session at the time of the examination of point six. We're at a questioning stage for the Ministry of Infrastructure right now. I understand you signed up for another question, Senator Blackbay. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you a question about what you said about the assumptions and why this bill came... You said that this kind of legal form would be clearly better in the context of the management of the project related to Polish airports. Could you give us a few facts, tell us why it's going to be better? Not in the HR sense, of course, but in the economic and organisational sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u77	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to apologize to the High House for my absence, for being late. During my break, I went to the ministry because I had to carry out tasks arising from other duties that I do constantly. Mr. Senator, High Izbo, today we have such a situation that in the company, in the PPL, all important decisions regarding the assessment of the implementation of financial plans, financial plans and their implementation are... This is a very long and complicated decision-making process. These fundamental things must be approved by the assembly of representatives, they must be approved by the staff council. We have such a double management system: on the one hand there is the CEO, the CEO, and on the other hand there is the CEO. A worker's representation. As history has shown, it has often been the case that workers' organisations, which unfortunately are divided into their positions -- that also applies to this project. During this debate, as well as the parliamentary debate, this was clearly shown. Unfortunately, these conflicts are also transferred to the management sphere, which shows that the resources available to Polish airports can be used more effectively. Well, you can use those resources better. Before PPL, especially in front of Okęcie airport, but also in front of other regional airports, there are huge investment tasks connected with the need to make extremely important and convertable decisions into hundreds of millions of zlotys. And here must be a clear decision centre. In these companies, there must be clear procedures that will make the resources they have available and the needs that Polish airports must meet will be optimised.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As regards the fact that changes are needed in the state-owned company, they are certainly all in agreement. We need to look at the rules and then think about whether something could be improved or whether something could be changed. Nevertheless, the question is how these changes will go. You're creating something you could call a hybrid, because it's something between a state enterprise and a commercial company. Something's in it, something's in it. Why didn't you make it clear? If what you're saying is that it needs to be improved, because relationships, actions, employees... Well, I guess they kind of bother you a little bit. And that's why you want to make this change. The trade union representative present at the committee meeting said The four trade unions that operate there, if I remember correctly. That they are opposed to these changes because they think that they are not going in the right direction. And my question is actually this: could you tell me what will come of this when it comes to the crew, about the employees? Because it's always said there's a good climate for these transformations. Well, he should be good. You should talk. Would you mind telling us what they're actually gonna lose or what the company's employees are gonna gain after these changes? Because the only thing we know about it is that it wasn't in the original project, but during the Seym work it was changed that the crew representative would be on the Supervisory Board. Because it wasn't mentioned before. And that's the one thing that's going to be covered here. Could you explain what else they might lose and what these people will gain? Why is there such anxiety among workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u81	High Izbo! Mr. Senator! You raised a very important topic, namely in the first part of your speech you said about the option of simply transforming the state-owned company This idea has been put forward for many years, but there is a problem with it. In addition to the many other problems involved, we must remember that this is a very important company and that we are transforming a company that is developing rapidly and has huge needs. You can't stop PPL, you can't stop it for just a second. There is also a problem of claims by former owners of parts of the airport, and it is a significant part of the airport. Always with property transformation the property must be described very precisely. No claim shall be made against this property. Shareholders must have full rights to own their assets, their shares in which they invested their money, regardless of whether it concerns the State Treasury, as in the case of public companies that operate on the basis of public limited liability companies or private investors. And here's a very serious problem of this kind. This is one of the brakes that decides that such a classic transformation cannot be performed. As far as the role of the crew is concerned, I will say this: Dear Sirs, according to the Trade Union Act, according to other laws, the normal bodies that represent the employees will continue to function there. In such a classic state enterprise there is an employee council, there is an assembly of representatives... Today this will be changed for the reasons I mentioned earlier, but workers' rights will not suffer anything. I'm sure I'm speaking completely objectively. Indeed, the impact of the crew on the management of the company will be limited, yes. But workers' rights will not be restricted in any way, because they are simply something else.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u82	Thank you very much, Minister. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u83	Mr Marshal, Minister, a new entity is being created and we understand that your message That's for my question and for Senator Flork's question. The aim is to improve the decision-making process, which is long due to the participation of the crew. Well, these decisions have to be made faster, hence the idea of creating such an individual. But two questions about it. What new tasks... Three, actually. I'm sorry. What new tasks do you want to assign... As I understand it, the construction of this central port will be carried out by this company. Is that also a new assignment that this company is going to get? That's what I'm gonna ask you straightaway. That's one thing. Secondly, when a new entity is created, one of the elements, apart from the legal appointment, is always certain business assumptions: this is what we are dealing with today, such revenues, such costs, we plan such investments. Do you have such a product when it comes to the idea and start-up of this company? And the third question about your earlier statement, Minister, before the break. You were talking about a growing demand when it comes to transporting passengers by plane. The number of people using this means of transport is increasing. Please tell me if today's airports around Warsaw, because we say that mostly here is a problem... To what extent they are saturated and what is the prospect of saturation of these airports, Chopin and Modlin when it comes to using today and in perspective, I don't know, 10, 15 years? Is that the analysis? If you can hear a few words about this...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u84	Mr. Senator, High Izbo, about the first question, about the plans to build the Central Communication Port, because I understand that the senator was referring to this. I'm going to say that in April of this year a government attorney was appointed. That's Minister Nicholas Wild. He's doing his work, and as far as I know, in the near future. It's hard for me to set an exact date, but I'm sure it'll be soon. The idea of how this huge investment is to be implemented will already be announced and fundamental assumptions will be presented, including those concerning the entity that is to implement it. Thus, the decision whether it will be Polish Airports, whether it will be any other entity, has not yet been made. But no doubt There is no doubt about that, and no one here raises any objections to it. Polish airports, especially Okęcie airport, must even in the meantime expand very much. As I said earlier, the increase in the number of passengers served is a very important necessity, but there is also a second necessity which I have not spoken about, and it must certainly be stressed very strongly. This is the use of Chopin Airport by our national carrier, PLL LOT, which wants to create... in fact it is, but these functions are to be expanded to make Chopin Airport so-called. the hub, which is the connecting airport, so that passengers will be brought to Chopin Airport, who will then travel on further routes, especially non-European ones. In any case, it is a situation where another airport in the world is indicated as the destination point. And for this to be possible in the coming years, there is a need for expansion, a very intense expansion of the airport. I will also remind you that PLL LOT is already expanding its fleet. New planes are coming. These planes, especially the biggest ones, so-called. Dreamliners also require special places to be operated, as well as to be stationed so that they can sleep over. For this is also necessary a very thorough reconstruction of the airport, also in cooperation with the military, which also uses part of Chopin Airport. So we have to reconcile all this business here. About the question you're asking... the third one that concerned... Remind me... [[It was a simulation of...]] Oh, a motion simulation. Such simulations are already today in terms of traffic growth and air traffic in general. Let me put it this way: if we look at the simulations a few years ago, we'll see that they didn't work out, they're just underrated. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. And today we see that what was predicted a few years ago... Well, you can say that it's lucky that these simulations are undervalued, you can express the satisfaction that the movement is greater than it was expected. But all this will be in the paper I was talking about, which Minister Wild is working on. This is a gigantic undertaking, which is why a government representative has been appointed in the rank of minister so that he can carry out the whole giant investment, the costs of which are estimated at PLN 20.30 billion. She will, of course, also require investment in road construction, construction of railways. Because it's not a point investment, it's an investment that's going to create a communications network. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u85	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u86	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind... Minister, two more kind of supplementary questions. As far as the question of capacity is concerned, I would expect the Minister to speak directly. - If possible. That's what I'm talking about. Chopin Airport is a matter of 15 million passengers today, and this is 80% its capabilities, so the versions are: either we expand them somewhere on the side, or we do something there... and considering Modlin, we still have this one and this capacity, so in the ten-year perspective, you need this and this. And the other thing is, if the Minister says it's not worth the expansion of the airports in Modlin and Chopin, any integration or doing anything else... So that's why we're building an airport out there, this central port. That's one thing. And the other. You didn't tell me if there were or if there were any financial plans for this newly created entity. Have you done any analysis on this, which means that today we are dealing with this, tomorrow, there are issues of such revenues, costs and burdens in the perspective of... Well, in short, was this business plan made, or did you just set up a legal website and the rest is to be created later?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! As for the last part of your question, these matters are the competence of Minister Wild. We as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction As well as other services that are responsible for Polish aviation, we support the Minister, we provide him with information, but I do not want to enter into these competences today and tell him how long these documents will be shown. However, I know that work is being done on this subject. As for the next questions that have been raised in relation to capacity, we, ladies and gentlemen, have been discussing this issue for perhaps more than a year and a half, also with the current director Mariusz Szpikowski, we are discussing with the industry, there have probably already been dozens of meetings in various groups, and they are also very successful... Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, who is working on the issue of securing the capacity of Polish airports, was also appointed with you. Above all, we are talking about Chopin Airport and indeed about the whole aviation situation in Mazowsze. Because if we're dealing with the situation that Chopin Airport serves, as this year, 15 million passengers, the airport in Modlin, about 3 million passengers... Well, we've got some more. 'Cause we're talking about those airports that are in the centre of Poland. .. the airport.. in Radom, where today there is very minimal traffic for passengers, and airport in Łódź, where this traffic is also small. Our actions are moving in this direction to make the most of Chopin Airport's capabilities. For this purpose, e.g. the decision to introduce the so-called is being prepared. night silence at Chopin Airport, so that the traffic that takes place today in the night, either has been transferred to the day, for daily hours, or has been taken to other airports. I showed you the alternatives. These alternatives belong to carriers, because it is currently not possible for such direct traffic control. If a carrier wants to operate passengers, take off, land, use an airport that is a transport airport, and the airport is unable to demonstrate that there is no longer any possibility of taking further calls, it cannot be denied. These are international conditions. This is a matter of ensuring the development of the aviation market. Of course, this applies to us as well. So it's like the senator said about these other airports, it's a process. Today we're making decisions that I'm sure will... If there is a night silence at Chopin Airport, we must expect that some of the traffic that is being operated today at Chopin Airport, flights that are made at night, will have to find some other place, provided these carriers want to make these connections at other Mazovia airports. There's a basic client here, but not just here. No, Warsaw today is the communication centre of Poland, for more than 100 years Warsaw has been the capital. I am talking about independent Poland, we have been as a state for nearly 100 years now... We were reborn as an independent state with its capital in Warsaw, therefore the whole communication system is built towards Warsaw, which is understandable. This is the largest city center, business center, so it's natural. Therefore, this issue of service of Mazowsze, service of Warsaw, but also of all those who, thanks to the fact that the main airport in Poland is located here, can use it... This is a process that's just going on. There are a lot of analyses, a lot of expertise on this subject. I, too, encourage the senator to discuss, because these discussions are taking place today, and decisions on these matters are being made at the moment. [[Mr. Marshal, one question, last question, supplemental.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u88	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u89	I'd like the Minister to respond. Minister, I'm gonna ask you again if that's possible. 15 million Warsaw, let's assume that we're shutting down the night service, there's 12 million left, hypothetically. Do you have any idea if this 12 million is, I don't know, 50%? possibilities, 60%, 70%, 80% , or 100% ? That's what I'm asking, well, for the last time, if you don't mind, more forcefully.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u90	You asked me, Mr. Senator, to conduct the proceedings efficiently and quickly, and then you dominate the discussion. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[No comment, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Airport capacity can be calculated in different ways. There's, let's say, global capacity. In this case, we treat it so that the movement is uniform throughout the day, i.e. Every two minutes, every five or 10 minutes, a plane lands or takes off. You can count it so straight, so to speak, with a pencil in your hand. Except these are false calculations, right? There are periods where the airport is most used, these are the best morning hours, then early afternoon hours and evening hours. In these hours, which is natural, connections are most wanted, most needed. If it turns out that the airport is increasingly used, the traffic is increasing, it is convenient for passengers, and the carriers are willing to locate their connections here, then the traffic thickens, this grid becomes tighter and tighter. There are safety requirements, e.g. They say that the planes... Besides, people who use the airport can see that when one plane takes off, the other one has to wait a little longer to take off or land. There are objective requirements that make the airport physically no longer fit the planes, just like the cars on the road. It's a process. There's a part of the hours that are most wanted, they fill up as fast as possible. There's an optimal airport capacity that's most wanted. But when the carrier finds it difficult, it can't fly at 8:00, but there you go, it's 11:00, so he's gonna decide on 11:00, then the bandwidth increases. It can be measured differently. The research that is being conducted and discussed during our meetings shows the posts and the hours at which Chopin Airport is used, because we are actually the most researched. They show that we're slowly entering... These best hours are already filled. [[100%, right?]] Mr. Senator, sometimes the carrier quits. Yes? That's when someone quits for some reason because of the cruise, there's a gap. Well, of course, these connections can be further enhanced that it's going to be... [[But in these best hours, the betting is full?]] Well, it's full not yet, but it's definitely very big. There must always be, High Izbo, a safety margin. Yes? Planes are running late, things are happening. You can't plan air operations at the interface and assume that nothing will happen, that everything will always be scheduled for the minute. Unfortunately, there must always be a margin, which causes that there is still a lot of space to look straight ahead. But if we look at aviation functions and security issues, we'll see that unfortunately, sometimes this place is gone. Besides, I'll mention one more thing, Mr. Marshal. And the question is, what planes fill this space? Are these planes that carry, say, 300 passengers, are these aircraft that carry 70 passengers? About the same amount of space is filled by those that carry 300 passengers or more and those that carry 70 passengers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You have chosen a non-commercial path, which is to create a new enterprise, or actually only to change legislation, but based on an old human and material resource. And now I am. The volume of the old bill was twice as high. Aren't you afraid that this new law is too indelicate that there will be problems? And these problems are generally always in the transition, i.e. as regards transitional and adaptation provisions. I'll give you two examples. The first concerns who will rule in the company until the President is appointed. On the one hand, in Article. 29 All the organs of the undertaking, the former director, are abolished. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 30 expires all power of attorney. So at the time of the entry into force of the Act, like an axe... There are no old organs. And on the other hand, art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 says that until the appointment of the President, he shall perform the post of Chief Executive. In a sense, these two articles are contradictory. But there's still a way out of this. It's just that... In general, in the case of such transformations, there is a statutory transfer of property. So, where are you going? Because this is a new company set up on the basis of a new law. The property of the existing state-owned company Such a provision should be included in it. Not much, in this new law e.g. there is no organisational structure, there are no separate airports as units, as property components of the Airports. It's supposed to be a statute. The Minister has granted the statutes, but there is no obligation imposed on the Minister in terms of the time in which he is to issue this new statute. That's not enough. There's no maintenance on the old statute. And the old statute is based on old regulations. If they expire 14 days after the date of the announcement, i.e. at the time of the entry into force of the Act, there will be no old statute, there will be an old division into organisational units, into airports, and the new statute will not appear yet. Unless you're in time and on the same day you'll give us a new statute when the bill comes into force. These are temporary problems. This will create legal problems, especially in relation to property. That's what you said about where Chopin Airport is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u94	Thank you very much. Let me remind you of the time limit. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! There are two law-writing schools. One recommends that you write a specific law, the other is to write a general law that allows you to act more freely. Here Members have chosen the second option, the option of writing a more general law. I think... I don't see the contradiction between art. 30, the fact that any power of attorney granted expires, since it is clearly stated... The article must be treated as a transitional provision. 27, which refers to the fact that until the appointment of the President of PPL, the task of President of PPL is carried out by the person taking over the position of the Chief Executive of the State Enterprise of the State Airports. There's a general rule and there's an exception. There's a specific rule. It's a normal rule in legislation. It also says here that the estate... I think it's at the beginning of the bill. I'm sure it's written that the estate is as natural as it is going from the company to the company, so that it won't be a problem here. Of course, it can't be ruled out. I agree with the senator. That problems in the implementation of the law, may even be more in application than in the implementation, may occur. But we have heard declarations from the applicants in this regard. I also think that if such problems become apparent and if there is a need for legal intervention, the resort will be involved in all of this in order to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u96	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have some questions about a new investment that you kind of asked Senator Czarnobaj about. I understand that you were talking about exploiting the potential of both airports in the vicinity of Warsaw, which is our main national airport, which is their airport. Fryderyk Chopin, and the second Mazowieckie airport located in the vicinity of Warsaw, or Modlin. I wonder... As I understand it, Senator Czarnobaj also asked about the economic bill, how much really the new national airport, a kind of hub, will be economically viable. I think, Minister, that it is worth talking about this new airport and its position in a slightly broader context, also in the context of building intermodal connections. But I have... [[Mr. Senator, are you sure this is a question about the bill?]] Yes. [[Central Communication Port?]] Well, a little bit like that... [[There's gonna be laws on this case. I'm sure we'll be debating this.]] But this is so important, Mr. Marshal. [[Please.]] I think the Minister has already shown that he has a lot of knowledge. This is an interesting, very important discussion. [[We don't doubt that, but we can't bother the Minister. I think it's been two hours.]] I'm not tired. I think the Minister will be pleased to answer the question. Right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: I am at your disposal.]] [[Please.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In this context, I have the question of whether it is not worthwhile to make use of the potential of existing airports, especially the airport in Modlin, and to create some complementarity here. Has the PPL attempted to create such complementarity? It is about the kind of dualism with the local government airport, which is the airport in Modlin. Because shouldn't we start by exploiting the potential of both airports, possibly, as you rightly suggested? I very much agree with what you said. The potential of the airport in Łódź or Radom? There's a relatively small distance here. Only later should we think about and revise our plans, because it is a really big investment, costing many billions of euros. We know such a negative example from Germany. I'm thinking about this hubby outside Berlin. So the question is, is this necessary? As I understand it, change... I'm talking about making the marshal happy, too. Mr Marshal, Minister, I think that the changes you are making in accordance with this law are intended to increase the efficiency of the management of airports, but above all to exploit the potential of... [[Mr. Senator, as Senator Czerwiński asked a question, you called for a time limit.]] Okay, okay, that's absolutely true. I don't have anything to apologize for. That's where I end up and put the question mark. Thank you so much and I apologize for exceeding the time limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u98	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Variant analyses that have been carried out on whether or not to be created so-called. duoport, such a concept also functioned. "Building a common airport with Modlin and Okęcie Airport... This, of course, was very deeply considered. The concept of a central airport, because that was called earlier, appeared several years ago. This is not a new concept. There were many, many studies on this subject. Given that... well, the movement's increasing so much that you had to make a decision. This decision has been made, the government's decision to do so. It's just time for a decision. The decision was made that the Central Communication Port will be built, which will be designed to provide service to Poland, but not only to Poland, but also to Central Europe. It is a large transcontinental airport, which will ensure the air transport availability of Poland. The decision has been made. Today's the work I've been talking about. Maybe I'll say it again. I think Minister Wild will soon show you the effects of his work. This plan will be increasingly detailed, will be more concrete, will cover implementation issues and not just projects in an ideological sense. It's just the work. They're going on. We are at such a stage today that the fundamental decision has been taken and further steps are being taken to make the Central Communication Port a reality, so that Poland will take advantage of the opportunity offered by the location in the middle of Europe. We can be a communication hub for the whole of Central Europe. I agree that there are examples of failed air investments, but I think that if we showed a list of successful air investments, major transport ports, it would turn out that this is a much longer list. The port in Istanbul, which has recently been put into service, or the Korean port, near Seoul, which plays a huge role in this part of Asia... Well, that's the decision after many, many discussions. And today we've started to realize. [[Can I ask you a little more, very briefly?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u100	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u101	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, don't you think that the construction of this airport, this hub, will have a very negative impact on Okęcie airport, the airport of them. Frederick Chopin and the airport in Modlin? Wouldn't that be, I'm sorry for the colloquialism, fatal for both of these airports? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u102	I'm sure it's gonna be that... that's the basis of this concept that's hard to disagree with. The Central Communication Port is intended to replace Okęcie, the port of Okęcie to a large extent. Frederick Chopin. The very important question is this: And that's to be decided. If there is a definitive closure, and such voices also appear, i.e. the termination of the functions of Chopin Airport, whether part of these functions will be retained. This may no longer be communication functions in terms of mass transport, the ability to handle passengers counted in millions, just... There are ports in many European cities that serve to support exclusive traffic, VIP movement, government traffic, military traffic. Let's remember that Chopin Airport is also a military airport, so if Chopin Airport was completely liquidated, we would have to provide these military functions elsewhere. It is about military functions concerning the defence of the capital city of Warsaw, but also the service of the entire government sphere. It's about security. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, I'll ask you again. I'm sure that's the last question, and I'm not taking the floor anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u103	But we're gonna make it by tomorrow? [[Yes. Last one.]] There you go, Mr. Senator. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Aviation always takes time...]] Yeah, and it's exciting. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: We need to prepare for this.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u104	No, no, it's not emotion, it's an economics question. Minister, Mr. Marshal, we must be aware that Okęcie Airport, Fryderyk Chopin Airport, looks as we see it. We use this airport and we know that it is very modern. It is, of course, not one of the largest airports in the world or in Europe, but it is very modern, modernized. Its modernisation ended in 2015 and was co-financed by European funds. Senator Włosowicz criticized it yesterday, counted and tried to prove a certain economic bill. I absolutely disagree with that. In my opinion, you've made some mistakes in your assumptions. Excuse me, Senator, for bringing this up. We'll talk about it in the cockroaches. Isn't it a shame about the money? Aren't we going Greek? When Athens was preparing for the Olympics, this old airport was left there, including computers and everything, and today trees and weed are growing there. Well, there's a certain amount of public money spent on it. Don't you think, Minister, I apologize for the colloquialism, but isn't that a waste of public money? Whether limiting the functions of Okęcie airport, the airports im. Fryderyk Chopin, just for the military movement, is not the destruction of the achievements and efforts of the Polish state to modernise this airport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u105	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u106	Where did the idea of building the Central Communication Port or the Central Airport come from, as it was said a few months ago? Ladies and gentlemen, the most important indicator, namely the increase in air traffic, has been taken into account. If we looked at Chopin Airport in Warsaw... We have already said in the previous part of our debate that, like every airport, it has limited possibilities. And here, too, it has been said that it is already used in these best hours, whether it is entirely or 80%. Of course, this can be estimated differently. In infrastructure There is always a limit to the possibilities within which the infrastructure can be used, whether linear, point, air, road or communication. Well, that's all you can do. And today you can see that with this increase And he's probably gonna make it. In the next few years, we would really find ourselves in a situation where Poland could not accept more passengers, with all the consequences. Our growth would be inhibited. The construction of the Central Communication Port will allow these perspectives to be completely radically expanded. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes it is also so that... I think this is a good analogy. Well, if we're building a new road, the role of the old one is changing. Yes? And then we say, well, this old road has served us for 50 years, but it's dampened. Well, because there's also something like the depreciation time of linear objects. It's the same with airports. All the costs that are being calculated today... The financial result of Chopin's name port is excellent. Last year it was probably over PLN 200 million in profit, and the financial result is, of course, included depreciation, i.e. all the costs previously incurred. This is treated as a balance sheet category, because you cannot not count those costs previously incurred. Airport, just like any fixed measure Whether it's bigger or smaller or even gigantic It's also amortizing. And the money that was previously spent at Chopin Airport in Warsaw should continue to be spent on its modernisation for the reasons that I mentioned earlier, for example because of the need to accept new aircraft that Polish airlines bring in not only Polish airlines. Please note that in recent years, great carriers from the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Turkey have appeared at Chopin Airport, with the largest aircraft, which also started flying to Poland. This movement is going to increase, so we need to maintain and develop all of this today Chopin Airport, but we really need a further perspective so that we don't reach the ceiling at some point and crash into that ceiling.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u107	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much for the comprehensive information on the future of air traffic in Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yes, I will allow questions, but in accordance with the regulations, I will only allow questions on the bill from now on. If you have any questions about this bill... Unfortunately, other questions, in accordance with the regulations, will no longer be allowed, because you are abusing my patience. Senator Florek. You're welcome. About the bill, the bill under consideration.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u108	I'll try it then. Mr. Marshal, Minister, I share here the concerns of Senator Czerwiński about the bill. It will have to be interpreted in a number of disputed points. There are mistakes, for example. the appointment of the President shall be in one chapter and the Vice-Presidents shall be in another. The board of directors... etc. Those mistakes are... Anyway, I'm gonna make amendments, so I'm gonna talk about it. But I understand that this is a parliamentary project. Because the company, the company, has plans to build and expand. So, in light of the fact that we've decided to build a central building... Well, then we'll have to take that bill. But this bill is unfortunately flawed, incomplete and there will be problems. I'll tell you what it is in a minute. About... Just one more second, I'm gonna talk about the hub, about the airport. Ladies and gentlemen, the competition in Europe is great. There are big airports next door. I have an invitation... [[Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan: Mr. Senator, first of all, time limit...]] I'm almost done. I still have an invitation to Berlin Airport opening for 2012. It's in my drawer. It's been five years and there's no opening.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u109	Thank you for letting us know. [[So I'm just...]] Thank you. Thank you very much. [[Therefore, my question...]] You're welcome, Minister. [[I didn't have time to ask you a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u110	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I think this is the third time we've really come back to the same thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u111	So I suggest you don't answer the same question for the third time. Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I really have three questions and they concern the bill. [[Just in a minute. Anything in 60 seconds.]] The Act confuses the powers of the Minister with the powers of the Supervisory Board, which are not specifically defined. Why didn't any of the applicants think about converting airport ports into a company governed by commercial law or an employee company when the company needs to be repaired? Please indicate the reasons why this law needs to be amended. And how will the bill improve the company's operations? My second question concerns the issue of supervision. There's a problem in the bill. Supervision has been reserved as the responsibility of the Minister responsible for transport. At the same time, the supervisory board was left behind as regards the financial economy. These 2 competences cross, impose, which may lead to confusion. Experience has shown that no one will actually supervise this company. And my third question. In the Act in Art. 3 you say, Minister, that the Polish aviation company is subject to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u113	Mr. Senator, time's up. Thank you very much. Please answer me, Minister. [[I'm gonna ask for the floor again because I have a third question.]] There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u114	With regard to the first question concerning the powers of the supervisory board and the chairman of the board... The relevant competences are mentioned here. They're very precise. If there are any problems with interpretation... I'll remind you, when it comes to the tasks of the supervisory board, it's an article. 15, the tasks of the President of the Article. 11. The Minister responsible shall supervise the PPL. This is chapter four. [[Not really.]] It seems that these competences are simply separated, properly described and will function. They're actually here... With regard to supervision, this is clearly indicated in the Article. 21, which is very clear and precise... The Minister responsible for Transport oversees PPL. So surveillance is clearly defined here, the whole surveillance. Financial supervision is not excluded.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Komarnicki, one more time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u116	In the Act in Art. 3 You say that the Polish aviation company is subject to registration of state-owned enterprises. I would like to ask the Minister: what register do we have today and does this register even exist in Poland today? Because as far as I'm concerned, we have a register of companies in the National Court Register, not state-owned companies. I would be grateful if I could get an answer to this question, whether this is a mistake or whether you intend to create a new register in which you will write down all state companies. This is the essence of the matter, Minister. I've been an entrepreneur for years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u117	Thank you so much for that question. Mr. Senator, we're not going to, the government's not going to create at least anything about this. Some new business registers. It was also explained. This article. 3 was subject to legal expertise. In fact, there's some awkwardness about this record. However, this is not an awkwardness that would disqualify the entire law at all and introduce some of the greatest doubts in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see any more people willing to ask questions. So thank you very much for your extensive explanations, your statements. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Florek was the first to speak... excuse me, Senator Florek. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Mr...]] No, I didn't mean to offend you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The voice from the room: I did it then...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Law on the Strategic Enterprise of Airports, a State-owned company. We know that the 1987 Act, which has so far been in force, is losing effect and that a whole new law is being created. There is a new type of legal person that has not yet been established in the Polish legal system: something between a state enterprise that has so far operated and a company governed by commercial law. Within the framework of this new law, part of commercial law companies are to operate from now on. So it's a hybrid: something like that, something from that, well, it's something that hasn't worked so far. The explanatory memorandum to the bill says something completely different. But now, after the committee meeting, after the second part of the committee meeting, we know exactly what this is all about. Well, we know that employees will be practically excluded from management. Trade unions did not accept this amendment in the Act. And the government has made a decision. He decided, as it turns out, to build the Central Communication Port. Just like the Minister mentioned here. I also listened to Mr. Nicholas Wild's speech. This concept will probably be in this or next week, there will be a resolution and it will be adopted. So, actually, the decisions were made. Therefore, in this Act there is a provision that this company will also build, i.e. it will be able to build an airport. That's the whole point. Because since the decisions have been made and it is already said that the airport will be built, it is even known in which municipality, it is even known in which village, i.e. in Stanisławów in the Baranów commune, and the information and signal is coming. - No, I'm thinking of buying land, etc. That is why this law needs to be done quickly. Therefore, the bill is prepared in parliamentary mode, due to the fact that there was no time. And that was clearly stated at the committee meeting that we interrupted, because it did not know exactly what the bill was about. Mr Marek Suski, who was present at the second part of the meeting, made it clear that this is a parliamentary project due to the very large project planned, the construction of the Central Airport, and it is necessary to change and adapt the company to such a great investment. So we clearly know what it's all about, why in this way, at such a rapid pace, a bill that will raise a lot of doubts... I'm about to make a few, maybe even a dozen amendments. Because, of course, she's in the state she's in right now... Well, we have to predict now that there will certainly be interpretation problems in the future. The law is burdened with errors that disqualify it, which should either be corrected or... I think that in the case of such an important strategic state enterprise, however, the government should have an initiative, not Members, of whom not everyone knows very much what this law is about. That's why I'm making amendments to this bill. But I'm going to start with an amendment that I've written additionally just now, sitting here. However, my first amendment will be a motion to reject the entire law. As far as the Central Communication Port is concerned, it is really not necessary to introduce such a law quickly and in this way, because for today it does not matter whether this port will arise or not. As for what further action will be taken, analysis and discussion are needed in this respect. I was just giving examples that we have big hubs in Europe, we have big ports. Closest, in the neighborhood, we have Frankfurt, Berlin. I gave you an example of a port in Berlin. I have an invitation to the opening in my desk. In 2012, the port of Berlin. It's been five years, and this port isn't open yet, and we have plans like this... These are plans for rapid implementation, because we want to show that we will be the tiger of Europe, that here, near Warsaw, there will be a great airport from which everyone will be happy to fly, all carriers etc. Well, you can have such plans, such thoughts, but you have to realize all of this, and according to the Minister it is that by 2019 a concept will arise and then we will build this port. And it's all supposed to cost taxpayers 30 billion zlotys. Therefore, this requires a really thorough analysis, not making a law for a quick, according to which PLL LOT is to deal with this particular project. Therefore, my first application is a motion to reject the law. Now, ladies and gentlemen... I don't know how much time I have if I don't make it, but I'm gonna ask for more minutes. As far as the amendments to the bill are concerned, I'm just gonna mention a few, like, three, four. I've got 15. PPL LOT is to be subject to That's what the senator asked me. The obligation to register state-owned enterprises; this is how it is written. But since 1 January 2001 there has been a National Court Register. There's no option here that it's not a mistake, it's just an error in the bill. There can't be that kind of record. PPL must be entered in the National Court Register. The bill has to be corrected, there's no doubt about it. This is an obvious, simple mistake. And you can't say what Senator Rooster said at the committee meeting that the comments that your legislator has made are right, etc., but because it would be best if the bill came in quickly... You have information from the Ministry that there is no problem, so the bill needs to be adopted, and then there will be an amendment of this law and it will improve. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's the way we make the law. If this is how we want to proceed and accept the fact that we're going to adopt a bill with errors that are obvious, and then we're going to update it... Well, you can't do that. Chapter 3 "Organisation of the PLL', Art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3: The President of the PPL shall appoint and dismiss the Minister responsible for transport. On the other hand, vice-presidents from 2 to 5 are appointed in another whole chapter, where the supervisory board is mentioned. Well, it has to be completely changed. Here's another example. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (7) should be replaced by a provision concerning the selection of an audit firm to carry out the audit, instead of a statement on the selection of an auditor for the audit of the financial statements of the PPL, as this is all to be in line with the Accounting Act. She's in effect, so there can't be any mistakes like that. It has to be corrected. Art. 33. Instead of signing up, the "PLL" becomes by law a party to existing employment relations with the employees of the company "Aerospace Ports" established under the Act of 23 October on a State-owned company... I'm not gonna read the whole article. The point is that workers' rights, which have been so far, should therefore be adjusted in such a way that workers do not lose influence on the functioning of the company. And so that those powers that they had... I understand that changes are needed, because it's different in the Commercial Companies Code, but if so, you had to move towards the creation of a commercial law company and then there would be no problem. The Minister explained here why you are not going towards a commercial company, i.e. in this case a public limited company. Well, because of the real estate that... but, after all, when it comes to property regulation, state of law, etc., it's not a subject that's been known since today. We have been regulating this since 1990, this work has been carried out and it is only necessary in advance... Only now it suddenly turns out there's an idea to build a new port and it won't make it. These are difficult regulations, and I'm aware of that because I've made many of these regulations. But you can't say that in that case we're creating some law, some hybrid, some rule that's unverified, which hasn't been applied anywhere so far, because we can't make a commercial law company. And that also involves the rights of employees. I'm not gonna read it anymore. I'm gonna exchange it. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] Mr. Marshal, I'm making amends, then. First, like I said, to reject the bill... [[It's a motion.]] Yes, proposal... amendment... [[And the corrections?]] Well, that's an amendment, too, at the moment. And I also make 15 amendments. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u120	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of the senator... [[Senator Zdrojewska.]] ...and, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u121	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! Dear Minister, Minister's busy, but I allow myself... to direct these words to you, please give me a little attention. I'll try to be quick, so spotty. I support Senator Flork's motion to reject the bill in its entirety and I will tell you why. I don't think there'd be anything wrong with that idea if it wasn't for what's behind it. And I don't even want to criticize the project of building the Central Airport elsewhere, but I don't think that's how it's done. First we need to have a discussion, a national discussion, because it is a huge expense not only for this government, but for many more. And it is important not only to have a national discussion, but also to take into account the various factors involved. I don't want to focus on criticism, but let me just remind you that we don't have a strong carrier like other important ports, hubs, we don't have planes. We don't even have planes, and we want to build a huge airport. So who's gonna fly from this airport and use this airport? We're just gonna be... It's just airport charges. Well, I'm talking about some things we should focus on. The next case is competition. Well, that's what my colleagues have been talking about, other large competing airports that will be in Europe. But I would like to talk about a case that has not been raised here, which is the issue of the discussions that are currently taking place, e.g. in the European Union, but also in the world, on airport safety and on the idea of moving away from large hubs in Europe to regional airports. Such discussions are taking place at the moment. Everyone who uses us, and most of us occasionally use these large airports, the Frankfurt type, sees that these are already inefficient mechanisms, because everything there is beginning to be late, slipping and so on. Plus, we're doing some internal competition. In my opinion, we should now develop the regional centres, the regional airports we have in Poland, and these regional ports should be places from which we can fly quickly, for example. Frankfurt, Brussels, etc. We should develop it. At the moment in Poland we are not even able to fly calmly e.g. from Wroclaw to Szczecin, or... Well, there's no such connection. So that first we need a nationwide discussion and we need to think about many factors. It seems to me that this is a kind of Central Industrial District idea, which means we're doing great... or Huta Katowice without comparing both. So we're doing a big, huge project that's gonna stay after us. I think that such dreams and such projects are good sometimes, but this needs to be discussed and this needs to be very seriously considered. Because right now, it's just causing anxiety. We know that now... In September, Dear Minister, three times the plane arrived, it was not late, from Wrocław to Warsaw and waited 15 minutes for the bus. Is that why we should build an airport? Maybe first we can fix the little bit we have, and we can fix the service there and what's going on there. I'm paying attention to that, too. As far as the project is concerned... I mean. The design looks like this... There's a lot of attention to him. You even admitted at the committee meeting, I heard that okay. That this will improve in the amendment, that we will do an amendment in a moment. And I really don't like the way that the Law and Justice are presented and that this government is presenting. Today's decision, tomorrow's bill, and the day after tomorrow's amendment. You can't really work like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u122	Thank you, Senator. Now I'm in line as a senator... There's no one else to replace me, so I'm gonna go from here. Minister, of course, this bill is intended to build this huge Central Airport, whose costs are extremely high. And that's the first problem. I believe that if the government is to choose between the creation of the Central Airport for 30 billion PLN and the modernization of energy or the construction of a nuclear power plant that is needed in the energy system to have different energy sources and to rely not only on coal or wind energy... It is estimated that the nuclear power plant will also cost PLN 30 billion. I believe that the government should, however, choose energy and the construction of a nuclear power plant. Several such expensive investments cannot be implemented simultaneously. There is already a law on this Central Airport, and there is no decision on the construction of a nuclear power plant. So we already know what's going to take precedence. For this reason, I am against this investment, which looks good in the media, does not lead, like a nuclear power plant, to confront environmentalists. But this investment doesn't make much sense. First, however, we need to use the powers that lie in our operating airports. Modlin is under Warsaw. I haven't heard the government try to strengthen this port. Modlin is connected by rail to the airport in Warsaw, but it is not possible to reach Modlin directly from Modlin, where you need to take the bus to Modlin stop, Modlin train stop. So I do not see any attempts to improve this at a much lower price, and it is proposed such expenses and some huge, monstrous investment between Warsaw and Łódź. Moreover, if this investment takes place and it is also related to the modernisation of railway lines and the introduction of railway lines to it, because of course the airport must be connected to railway lines, the time of arrival from Krakow, from Gdańsk to this airport will be less than 3 hours. If the time of arrival at the destination is less than 3 hours, such small airports do not make sense. Thus, the consequence will also be to suck passengers out of those local ports that are developing well. I am talking about Krakow and Gdansk, but this will also apply to other places, even Poznań. And those airports that have been built and haven't actually reached, and they're the size they're supposed to be, meaning they're unnecessary or they're unhappier, they're gonna be more unnecessary and unhappier. And a few of these airports were built. So, Minister, I think that this might be a good idea in terms of piarism, but as an idea to implement it is not a good idea. Because that's the consequence. And once again I stress that if I were to point out which investment is more important, whether to spend 30 billion on the Central Aviation Port or to strengthen Polish energy, then I am in favour of energy. And that's the end of it. Please take the floor of Senator Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I try not to talk about topics that are not my profession. But it so happens that during my peregrinations around the world, I became friends with several American pilots, and in America, aviation is completely different from Europe. And I've talked to them many times about the idea of this Central Airport. I have listened to this debate and I have the overwhelming impression that the era in which we are living is becoming more and more like the Game era. We are indebted, Minister Morawiecki enters into long-term bonds at an ever higher percentage, which we are not talking about, and we will build something that used to be called the great buildings of socialism; well, Nowa Huta etc. If you look at airports with one lane, it will turn out that the record player is of course Gatwick Airport, which has 1 lane and supports 44 million passengers. We in Warsaw in Okęc have 2 lanes crossed, and we serve 14 million, we serve the capital of the country. It is an extraordinary benefit, that the access to the centre of the train takes about 20 minutes and those who come from Poland to Central Station can switch to the train, to the shuttle, which runs every 20 minutes. The construction of such a communication hub, because there, I remind you, is about the airport, but also about the railway node, about such a central communication node of Poland, is a project tempting, only extremely expensive, extremely difficult to implement, requiring huge investments and threatened with what happened in Berlin, from which airports as a resident of Szczecin I use regularly. The construction of the port of Berlin Brandenburg International stopped. I already had tickets in 2012, I was supposed to get out of there, but the firefighters came and said there was no way it was gonna open. There were drowned many times more money. There are voices that this must be destroyed, because even the federal government, which is a shareholder, beside the city of Berlin and a few other shareholders, is no longer able or not interested in further melting money in this project. And I remind you that Berlin, bigger than Warsaw, has very small airports, because it has a port of Tegel, which cracks at seams, and Schönefeld, which is also such an ersatz, such a substitute product after the GDR. This is one of the reasons why the idea of this construction has more propaganda for me, the power tone, the character of attractions for people. When you talk to Americans, they say one thing: listen, if you want to have a hub that supports tens of millions of people, you have to start by having a fleet of airplanes with a few hundred units. Average American lines have more than 500 machines each, United, American Airlines, including smaller ones. LOT, as far as I am concerned, has sixty pairs or about 70 machines, and although it is expanding well, as we wish it, there is still an extremely long way to reach the status of a large airline. In preparing for this debate, I spoke with Warsaw city planners. They say that this intersection of belts on Okęc is unfavorable because it completely changes air traffic control. It would be better if they were parallel. According to them, it would be possible to rebuild these lanes in the areas owned by the airport. I don't know to what extent It's a real statement because I don't know anything about it. In Sweden, there is 1 runway a few kilometres from the airport and the plane, leaving it, travels about 10 minutes along a marked path. I don't know if it would be cheaper. I'm going back to the beginning. Airport with 1 runway, good organized and well managed, can handle 44 million passengers a year, namely Gatwick. The airport with 2 lanes, our Okęcie, the fact that the crossed, supports 14 million and everyone says that almost no more can be done. In my opinion and in the opinion of the people who do this, it's not entirely true. Poland is a richer country and we are all proud of it, but I share the opinion of Marshal Borusewicz here, as we have talked about several meetings back, that the energy economy requires huge investments: deepening the watercourse to Świnoujście, Szczecin swinoujście; completion of roads, Via Carpatia, etc. We want to spend giant money that is hard to predict. They're going to exceed construction costs, some kind of fantasy and vision, maybe attractive, but in my opinion unnecessary and unbearable by our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u124	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Piotr Florek. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for all the voices that have been put forward in the discussion. Some of them weren't on the subject. Today we are not discussing Central Communication Port, but about the PPL Act. [[Exactly. And that's the difference.]] And that's a little... That's the fundamental difference. And I'd like you to... Because not all of you have participated in this debate since the beginning, and I will not repeat myself, because many voices, questions, doubts that have appeared here have been formulated, I have already explained. It's hard to refer again every time... [[I listened to the Minister's words, but not everything...]] Once again... Well, Mr. Senator, I was under the impression that you didn't listen to what I said. Well, that's too bad. [[I've been listening. I was in the O.R.]] But what you said was that... unless you just wanted to say what you said. [[Minister, don't argue with the senator.]] Good. Thank you very much. [[Say what you want to say.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, I will not refer to plans to build nuclear power plants, to what is more necessary in Poland. I'm just gonna say, since we're a political body here, that it's been eight years, you could've built both or at least solved these problems... [[We know that. We know that.]] ...or approach them. [[But it's already been done.]] Exactly. But that's the truth, isn't it? Today we do not wake up from some blissful dream, but we wake up in a particular reality, with the needs that are simply present in Poland today, and with problems that we have to solve, both in aviation matters and in energy matters, or many other issues that need to be addressed, problems that need to be solved. [[400 million to the airport.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on these most important points in the discussion, I will stress what must really be underlined. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that there is a need to increase the possibility of accepting... aviation development in Poland is an obvious issue. About whether or not we need to have a national discussion about this... yes, we do. Only this discussion has been taking place for several years, in various groups of experts, in a more open way. Today is the time to decide. If we don't make those decisions today Fortunately, they have been taken, so we can discuss the next 15 years. Let me remind you that the first study on the Central Airport was shortly after 2000. And we can do it all over again, the whole process, but the political process must be finalized by decision. And that decision was made. And, ladies and gentlemen, you will be able to discuss this decision as High House when they come and probably come. . prepared by the government, by Minister Wild, the relevant laws. And then, I think, all this discussion about the Central Airport, the Central Communication Port, can take place. As for the amendments made to the bill... [[It's at the committee meeting.]] ...that, of course, I understand, the committee will refer to them. And there will also be an opportunity to address them when it comes to government positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u126	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Voice from the room: I would like that too.]] That's today. [[Voice from the room: So you have to take a break...]] We will vote today on all these laws that we will conclude today. The Senate will be adjourned on Wednesday, I inform you. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the law on amending the law on bailiffs and executions. The text of the Act is contained in print No 589, and the report of the Commission In print No 589 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Lydia Staron, to submit a report to the committee. [[There's no minister.]] [[Voice from the room: This is a parliamentary project.]] No, no, but is the minister here? [[I saw he was in the hallway.]] Then I'm sorry... Senator, please, sit down. We will ask the Minister, but the Minister should also listen to your report. [[I'm waiting.]] [[Isn't it that if the Minister isn't here, we're leaving the point?]] The Minister is, isn't he? Oh, the minister is. Good. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to speak very briefly. I would like to present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. The report concerns the amendment of the law on bailiffs and executions adopted by the Sejm on 15 September this year. I would like to stress, first of all, that this is our initiative, the Senate's initiative, implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is precisely due to the enforcement of this decision to prevent situations that are unconstitutional today and cause very great human harm. And it's about situations with non-cash benefits, when, for example, We have an eviction, but the debtor moves out voluntarily, the bailiff doesn't take any action, yet the money is taken as if the eviction was done and the bailiff carried it out himself. This is usually a few or several thousand zlotys. And I emphasize that the bailiff doesn't really do any work related to this eviction. The Court said that if the rules... But I won't dwell on it. The recipe already says today that the fee is for the activities carried out. And the understanding of this provision or the legal line went in a completely different direction, and that is why the Court said that, if so, it is absolutely incompatible with the constitution. As far as the substance is concerned, as regards the Court's ruling, which, in its explanatory memorandum, also asked that the legislator, when it comes to this issue at all, should reflect on the fact that the result of this judgment should be a redrafting of the fees which are, because they are simply unfair today, are harmful, and the Court has also drawn attention to this. The Senate therefore took this initiative. This initiative, I'll remind you, was in March, that's when we talked about it. It seemed that these rules should quickly enter into force and prevent the harm that happens every day. Well, it's a good thing they're finally here, but it's a shame it's just now. For the printing that came back to us from the Sejm, to the over-voted printing... Because in the meantime, it turns out that the bailiffs already, well, as if they're using some kind of runway. As indicated by the Court, we wanted to award, and rightly so, people who move voluntarily, i.e. they carry out, so to speak, a judicial judgment voluntarily. We wanted to reward them in such a way that, if they moved out during the period that the bailiff pointed out, the fee was lower. So it started to indicate for these people a term so short, e.g. Three days they couldn't do it. Three amendments were therefore tabled in the committee. I'll discuss them very briefly. The first amendment refers to this state, which is what we say that the bailiff must indicate, but it must not be less than 14 days. If the debtor moves out... It's in the interest of the creditor and the debtor. The point is for the creditor to recover this room faster, so that the action is carried out more quickly, and that the debtor voluntarily does so. Hence the lower fees, as the Court pointed out. If the debtor carries out this obligation after the specified period, no later than 3 days before the possible action... Then there's a reduction in the fee too. And the third amendment. The paragraph shall be deleted. 6 and paragraph 6. 7 in transitional provisions. Instead of those lips. 6 and paragraph 6. 7... This is explained in one paragraph. These are transitional provisions. So much for that right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u128	Thank you, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. You're welcome, Senator Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a request for you to tell everyone clearly, or... It just doesn't fit in my head. Tell me if it's true that so far it's been so that the bailiff calling the police to participate in his intervention took money for it. Is that true? In my opinion, the police are involved in these activities... It's their duty. I just found out that the bailiff's taking it into account, and he's taking the money for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u130	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u131	Mr. Senator, yes, it's true. You reminded me of one more thing I have to say to the High House. In addition to these 3 amendments, which were not opposed The committee supported them, no one opposed them. There were other... I believe Senator Rulewski has tabled amendments, but they have been rejected by the committee. The senator reminded me... Art. 57 today's bill says that if the bailiff asks for police assistance... The police are taking part in these activities so that, as I'm going to say, there's order. It's not the police who take the money. It's the money that takes the bailiff into their pocket. That's what the rules say today. We are eliminating this rule with this senate initiative. It doesn't just seem unfair, but it's grotesque, so that the police assist... The bailiff can call the police every time, if only to make that money. I don't remember the exact amount, but I think it's about 1 thousand or 800 zlotys in his pocket. That's why we took out that recipe. In the amendment that was tabled Now it's coming back to me. Mr. Senator has proposed that this rule be restored.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u132	Thank you very much. Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u133	Thank you very much. I've already received some answers because Senator Mammothov asked... opinions about bailiffs are usually not the best. This is due to the fact that their apanages are in a sense dependent on the collection of debts from creditors. Right? Does the bill verify, or rather impose on bailiffs some kind of tightening or even punishment for unauthorised interference and unjustified collection of charges? The media, especially recently, are reporting such cases. It's not just reprehensible, it's just...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u134	Thank you. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u135	Mrs. Senator, such a comprehensive law, or actually 2 law on bailiffs and executions, and the law on bailiff costs, is in preparation at the moment. It is a government project, in a large group created. It is deposited in the Seym, and in time it will come to us. We are now dealing with non-monetary benefits and, above all, with the execution of the Court's ruling. I'm going to show you what this is like. It's about art. 51, because this one was questioned. Today we are talking about non-cash benefits. What's the situation? In a situation where there is a sentence and someone has an eviction order, the bailiff sends a letter, that is, he initiates an execution, of course, there is then a title to it. In this letter, it informs the debtor of the initiation of the execution, at the same time giving him the time limit, which is to say: please leave the premises within how many days. And the debtor... But sometimes there's not even a call like that, and the debtor moves out voluntarily. So sometimes he doesn't get anything from the bailiff, but he knows there's a conviction, and he's just moving out. And very often Because it's actually avalanche, it's not an incident, but there's an avalanche of this kind of execution... It seemed that the bailiff didn't even know where the debtor had moved, didn't even know when it happened, but when he got information that the debtor had moved out, he charged him costs. And those costs today I'm gonna say it. They're abstract. Because imagine it's 40%. For one chamber! So if you're a bailiff. And that's what I have to say, too. Once he took a few or a dozen thousand... This is where the debtor moves out on his own, which is the obligation to move out on his own, the bailiff doesn't participate in any of this, and yet he wants a dozen or so of the thousands that the creditor had previously paid... And this is what the Court has pointed out when it talks about absolute injustice, injury and injustice, and above all about non-compliance with the Constitution, because it is not only a problem of social justice but also property rights. But I have to say here, too, so we know what the execution looks like. That's what it is: if the bailiff is involved in the execution, then he calls back the company that handles the movers, and for the company's work, which is at its expense, he pays separately, so it is not included in the fee that the bailiff, so to speak colloquially, takes into his pocket. So he also takes for every... For the police that assists, he's taking the money, too. And for the work of a moving company, because this is a separate cost, the call is also a separate cost, the envelope sent is also a separate cost. And that's just because he's present with these activities. Suppose this move takes from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., which is a few hours. 'Cause it's always more or less like this moving around when it comes to apartments or homes. It's a bailiff in a situation like this, taking 40%. salaries for each chamber, i.e. about 1 thousand 600 PLN or 1 thousand 500 PLN per chamber, and it is only by participating or practically assisting in these operations... That's why it's so much money! And that's why our initiative is talking above all about 20%, i.e. 800 PLN per chamber. So it's about 800 zł anyway. But most of all, he's talking about bonus. So if you moved out on your own, you did it voluntarily, which means the creditor pays a smaller fee at first... And that's what we're talking about. And then, as the Court says, depending on the attitude of the debtor 'Cause we don't know if he's gonna do it voluntarily or not. Either he's going to be rewarded or he's going to have to pay the whole thing. But here you pay for the work done, because it has to be adequate. There are already 4 rulings by the Court in this case Not just because someone's called a bailiff. [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej: I just want to ask if I can...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u136	There you go. Senator Panczyk-Podniej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u137	Well, then how is it supposed to come... [[He can't tonight.]] 'Cause I understand it's on the bailiff line. The creditor. How is such an unauthorized collection of costs to be sought, if the Court imposes... Where's she supposed to tell you about this? Who's supposed to know about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u138	Today... I mean, it's a normal execution. First there's a clause, there's an executive title and a normal execution begins. Today is the case that before the bailiff even executes such an execution, it's 100% fees, yes, 100% It doesn't matter if it's voluntary or not. It shall collect from the creditor. If the creditor does not deposit this money, for example. They're gone, that's when the bailiff doesn't proceed. So the creditor has to deposit the money. So there's already a threshold here in terms of possibilities. On the other hand, if an execution takes place and the bailiff executes it, today it simply collects these costs from the debtor, whether he moved out voluntarily or unintentionally. And then the bailiff has, so to speak, a salary, and returns the funds to the creditor. What's the situation we're proposing? What the senator is talking about is included in the transitional provisions. We say you pay 10% at first. the average salary is paid today around PLN 400 as execution begins. And depending on whether you moved out voluntarily or not... This amount will be paid if... suppose there's a situation where there's a court order and someone's moving out on their own. The bailiff doesn't take any action, which means he doesn't even send a letter. Then there's no money here because the handwriting didn't go and the bailiff didn't start the execution. In a situation where someone moved out on a specified date, we're talking about 1/25. If he did it voluntarily, then we're honoring... If he moved out voluntarily between the indicated deadline and the execution of the action, 3 days before... Here we took from the Law on Court Costs, from the government project, from the article. 38. There's a solution. Then the initial fee becomes the final fee. This is all regulated in the transitional provisions and further clarified in the third amendment. So much for transitional provisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u139	Thank you. Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u140	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, would you be kinder to bring us closer to the issue of the execution of non-cash benefits? There's a lot of talk in this project. Namely, who is more served by this kind of execution? A creditor, a bailiff or a police authority? What a better role In comparison to other collections Does it involve the initiation of enforcement of non-cash benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u141	Senator, in answer to this question, I'm going to say that benefits are divided into cash and in cash at all. Rules that the Court questioned in June... There was such a judgment as regards cash benefits. Today is the situation that if the debtor I'm saying it like it's for enlargement. After the call, he will voluntarily bring the money to the bailiff's office or deposit it in his account, and he will pay 15%. For bringing that money voluntarily. In June, the Court stated in its ruling that this was not in line with the Constitution. In a project that's probably gonna come back to us soon, there's, if I remember correctly, 3%. or 5% When you bring money voluntarily right after the call. These are cash benefits. There is much to be said about this, but this is not the subject of our amendment. Non-cash benefits are benefits of a different kind. They're e.g. when we're talking about emptying the premises or picking things up. In the case of such benefits, we do not demand money from the debtor, but demand that the judgment be executed in a non-monetary way. And that's why these benefits are called in cash. The contested article was an article. 51. He was just about taking possession, as well as emptying the premises from things and people, i.e. the so-called. eviction. As far as these benefits are concerned, you asked who was more interested here. Of course, these provisions benefit the creditor and, above all, the debtor. And there's one thing that needs to be emphasized here. I'll give you an example from life. There's a woman... Her husband, the oppressor, doesn't want to leave the place where they live together. She's running away with a disabled kid. To get back to this place... He's got an eviction order, he's got everything he needs. She goes to the bailiff and asks him to carry out the execution, but turns out she can't afford it all. The bailiff says, here you go, pay $12,000, I'm the one who's gonna carry out this execution. She even... No one knows if this husband is going to move out voluntarily or not. He hasn't moved out yet. And the execution will be when the creditor pays in advance. And again, we say, in this full amount. So it's absolutely for the creditor, because he has a sentence, too. Right? This is his property. Yeah, she's entitled to that, too. Finally, the court legally said that this eviction is going to take place or not. On the other hand, is this for the debtor? Of course it's for the debtor because he's mobilizing the debtor. And for the creditor. Right? It mobilizes it because if it moves out on the indicated date, the fee will be much smaller, and as in the latter date, it will also be smaller. It won't be as big as when he's moving out, but when the bailiff comes, because the moving company... But it's cost-effective. So to execute this execution is in the interests of both, because it is the judgment of the court to be executed. In the interest of the bailiff... Well, that's where I'd be discussing it. And this is from the IWS, the Justice Institute... Then, when we were creating the first law, but then the second law, which is last year, the average for the year supposedly 2015 but we're already talking not about the income, but about the income of the bailiffs. It was about 50 grand without some gold, I guess. Is that a lot or a little? In our opinion, a lot, but that's not the point. It is, above all, about this adequacy, about the relevance to the work done. If the bailiff spends Well, let's go back to that eviction again, because it's the subject of an amendment. Even the whole day, participating in this eviction... Plus, there's a payment for a moving company. That's not what we're taking... the police... Then he'll take the money. It's not the police, it's him. And if he for this one day's work by evicting from some apartment, he will take e.g. 8,000... Is that a lot? In my opinion, a lot. Eight thousand, nine thousand, four thousand, five thousand, six thousand Most of the time it was within the limits as we have seen, because given at least 4 chambers, that's about 6 and 7 thousand already. Yes? 'Cause that's pretty much how it works out for today's fees that exist. After the amendment it will be less, but not so much less. All right, let's make it $2.3,000. Is it a lot for a day's work? Well, it doesn't really seem like a little money. And I will also stress here that, as far as fees are concerned, in the proposed project that we will all be working on, these charges from the apartment are to be 1 thousand 500 PLN. So these amounts in our proposals are even bigger, even though we're bonusing Then it's less. That's what's going on. That is why it is very good that this initiative is. It's a shame not before, but every day like this... I'd say... However, as the Court said: it is incompatible absolutely... There is no social justice here, but there is normal harm and there is no such situation. Because these people have a sentence... But how can they still be harmed in such a way that these charges are so great and that when they voluntarily do so, they are the same.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u142	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by the Senate. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill? Would Minister Łukasz Piebiak like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you, Mr. Marshal. There's no official government position on this case, so thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur, Senator Ancienta, so suggestively presented her report that not only was the silence behind, but there was a full understanding of this initiative, especially since the Senate had already taken such an or similar initiative. However, if there has ever been, or if there have been, or even there are reservations about work or commercial activities, it is appropriate to place them in a broad context of the rule of law in Poland, for which PiS and the Government of PiS took full responsibility. And if so, the question here must be clearly asked how this rule of law is to be developed when both its arms, its size or its sentence in civil trial and execution are being pursued. The issues of dimension in this House have already been sufficiently discussed, but have not been resolved so far as, as I have already mentioned, they are of interest not only to the Upper House, the Senate, the Sejm or the Government, but also to the European Commission, the European Parliament and even to President Clinton's desk. [[Clinton's voice?]] Yes, President Clinton received information on this matter and spoke about the need to comply with the rule of law. [[Clinton?]] Clinton, Clinton, because Trump didn't speak anymore. [[It was Obama.]] Please? [[Voices from the hall: It was Obama.]] I'm sorry, Obama. Yes, Obama, with the same option, I'm sorry. I won't prolong this speech, but I don't think it's settled. These are satirical things, and they've had different examples, with a maximum of ten, and they've forgotten that this dimension is 15 million... And in a specific case, e.g. issuing hundreds of thousands of maintenance decisions every year, there is no acceleration of these processes, but the reverse of this process, delays and inefficiencies of executions. The PiS government has not carried out an effective judicial reform for two years. The rule of law in Poland in the segment for the citizen, for the victim or for the party to the trial is at stake. More, execution is the weakest element of justice, as evidenced by both the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and, for example, the fact that 35 000 prisoners sentenced to prison do not execute the sentence, despite the execution of the sentence, the search for this prisoner and empty prisons. About non-a maintenance 'Cause it's hard to say there's a maintenance in Poland. They're saying different numbers. A million cases, a million children... They have not been able to enforce, in a state of law, in a state governed by the PiS, a country governed by PiS for two years now, an elementary duty. The system fed by the state budget becomes inefficient. All the resources were frozen there. There is no closer data about the judgments that have been obtained by employers or employees, because these data are not even dealt with by the CSO. The fact is that employees are fleeing courts, because not so many courts are able to determine the effectiveness of this penalty is minimal. I recently spoke with the district labour inspection, which in one voivodship stated that employers did not pay 1.5 million wages. As part of the execution, although not the bailiff's, not the one mentioned here by the senator, the labour inspectors imposed penalties of 64 thousand PLN in order to enforce the order. Please note that out of this employer, inconclusive and already called upon to implement the basic employment law, they have already paid $3,000 in fines. Worth it? It is even worth going to court, it is worth to be convicted, but it is worth not paying, because this is the state of compliance with the rule of law in Poland, in which the authority is more interested in breakfast of the President of Rzepliński, shopping for judges in megashops than the actual state of the rule of law. And I'm going to go to the report, which is what we're going to decide. Undoubtedly, what Senator Staroń has presented is true, just as what the Court has already ruled is true. But I don't see the government's initiative here. I would say more: there is the government's silence in this matter, though not entirely. And this is where you should pay attention and thank the senator for taking this decision into account. But it's not entirely true. On the occasion of the implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal ruling, I do not know for what reason and who was possibly a souffler, it was decided to reduce the rates for the benefits of bailiffs. Just so we're clear, I don't mind what the senator said about the implementation of this implementation. But first of all, I make amendments... I have reservations about the jump being made on the occasion, and, as I hear, in the Seym, similarly... The government intends to increase this black hole of the Polish justice system, which is execution, because it wants to reduce contributions, i.e. benefits and fees. The senator's empathizing with income here. At the committee meeting, she spoke of special cases. Senator Chairman says, "Well, what do you mean, the bailiff comes in, calls the police and charges the money for it?" The police cancel them, too, because they don't assist for free. [[No.]] [[It doesn't.]] Mr. Senator, he's erasing his salary. Probably the clerk's still writing a notice or a feasibility clause, and he's also erasing his salary. The bailiff is indeed the decisive element in this process. I'm not gonna argue like the senator or the bailiff should be paid $50,000, or maybe he's on his way. As I may suspect, the government does. For the liquidation of the bailiff's institution. 'Cause if we start reducing those stakes, And the chamber presented this at the committee's meeting. Of course, this will be a threat to the existence of a bailiff system. But I'm actually more interested in execution. Of course, there is still administrative execution in Poland, only that the efficiency of this administrative execution is as it is, or is weak. Recently, the problem of maintenance or actually maintenance was caused by the fact that the execution of the civil servant was ineffective. And that's why it's entrusted as bailiffs, which, of course, is a great surprise to me... [[Mr. Senator, 10 minutes is up.]] Now, Mr. Marshal, I'm finishing up. And that is why, when I make an amendment, I propose that we keep this part of the bill, which consists in implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, and for further work and decisions, but in another way, leave matters of wage formation, income formation and issues of the bailiffs' work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u144	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Lydia Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm really short, but I'd like to say a few sentences. Mr. Senator asked me to tell you about the conspiracy. I'm really not gonna talk politically. 'Cause I never say that. Only substantively. What kind of chase can we talk about here? The fact that there are examples that call for vengeance to heaven, and which are dozens... I invite you to my office, Senator, because if you saw what things were going on, you wouldn't believe it was even possible. But the fact that examples are being shown or that the media are showing examples that should never happen... Plus, at the end of the road. And I agree with you here, as far as the judiciary is concerned, but maybe in a different context. It turns out that these people are not at all responsible for what they did! And sometimes I wonder why that is. 'Cause if we're all... We've seen, for example. this tractor This is one example, but we've all seen it. The man wasn't indebted, but the asessor came in, took the tractor, sold it for nothing. ♪ We're gonna ♪ We saw it! And this assistant was expelled by the disciplinary commission, but the court replaced the expulsion by a fine of PLN 8,000. So for me... I can only ask the question: should it be so? No, I don't think so, Senator. And I'm not gonna agree to that because where I've been for years... Perhaps it has been years that this has not been mentioned or that has not been said enough. And I know what the problem is to protect people, those people who are the weakest. Because the creditor who's coming, and the debtor, are the weakest people. Because the creditor wants something back, too. It's true, isn't it? And those stairs that are... It can't be that he's doing business today... Because let's stress: the bailiff is not an employee of the court, he is not an official. In fact, he conducts business activities on behalf of the Republic of Poland, normal activities. And what's he interested in? To make as much money as possible. But we as legislators... As the Court states in its fourth or fifth ruling, the fees must be adequate for the action. So how can it be that if the bailiff carries out during the day... Well, let's go back to the eviction case again, because it's the subject of this amendment, and it's a non-cash benefit. How's it feel to make a bailiff's day work? Well, work, because he's in this apartment, he's taking part in all of this, costing the creditor first, and then the debtor within 8,000, 7,000 or 6,000? This is... Do you think that's adequate? How are we here... Anyway, like the Court said, because he asked us in the final part... I will even quote this: the Court asks the legislator to reflect... i.e. The result of this judgment should also be a legislative reflection on the recasting of the current charging mechanism. He's asking us to think about it. She's expanding it, not just talking about... but asking her to think more about it. It's like we... here the senator just asked me: why are these stakes still so big? And I say, we were just trying to make them big anyway. And I won't agree, Mr. Senator, as I say, briefly, when it comes to... You're right about alimony. You're right, but these are primarily cash benefits, and we don't talk about them. This does not include cash benefits. The rewrite doesn't touch them at all. That's the first line. And then there's the second line. I've met with it many times. Not all bailiffs are interested in such executions. But not because here... Well, let me give you one more example. If you're a bailiff carrying out a real estate execution, you're selling someone a house. Right? Well, there are companies on the market that do it professionally. There are real estate offices. Well, from the man who reports that he wants to sell the house, this office will take 2%. for full service, for pricing, for showing, for advertising, for everything that is possible. The bailiff gets 15% for the same thing. I'm not talking about expenses, because ads are counted separately, everything is counted separately. Mr. Senator, I don't think we should fight today about those stakes that are today, and that the bailiffs really fought each other once. On the contrary, we should do so so that they are actually, as the Court says, adequate to the workload and, above all, we should ensure that execution, as you wish, is more efficient, i.e. reward for voluntaryity. And that is absolutely a step in the way the Court wants to go. I'm almost done. As far as the chamber is concerned, you're saying... Well, it wasn't even a chamber, it was a National Chamber. As for her representative, the president, I'm not surprised that he thinks that way, because he's just fighting, which is natural, for the bailiffs' business. And we need this to keep the execution in normal form, of course... Well, I would've dreamed that one day a court worker would be responsible for it, but unfortunately, it didn't go that way. Nevertheless, while maintaining swift, but normal, law-abiding execution, we must first of all fight for the interest of the creditor and the debtor, because it must be their duty to comply with the judgment of the court, to comply with this provision. And when it comes to the bailiff, of course he can earn money, but in a fair, legal and normal way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u146	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! Senator! We are so quick that in this justice system, or actually the rule of law, we see a bailiff, but we do not see a debtor or convicted of a fine, compensation. We do not see that between the final judgment of the court and the imposition of a clause and the subsequent execution of execution by the bailiff he had time to execute justice in the form of repayment of the obligation or the emptying of the apartment. You used a great example with this woman who has to live with her child somewhere in exile because he doesn't execute a court order, doesn't implement an immediate clause... I don't know if there's an immediate feasibility there, but he's playing along with us. That's what we have to say. With a court, in fact, in breach of the law. And if we make this more difficult now, we're going to slow this process down, it's this creditor, which is this woman, who's going to be the victim. It's just that the bailiff won't go into execution because either he's gone or he won't get paid. You, too, forget what has already been explained in detail. This is an economic activity carried out on behalf of the State. He can choose what he's gonna do, and if the stakes are small, I'm not saying it's small in this case. This, please note, will choose what is more advantageous for him. And it's that poor woman who doesn't have the same opportunities as some company that owns intangible property that's going to fall victim to it. However, I repeat that what the Court has proposed is good. This will help to trigger the bail-in process with lower expenditures, but the Court did not say that the executions should be limited to what you are aiming at.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u148	Thank you. Senator Lydia Staron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I mean, really, really, really... Well, it's like we said, but the conclusions are I'm not gonna talk about it anymore so I don't straighten it out. They're coming out completely different. It is precisely that there will be voluntaryity and that it will be rewarded, that the creditor will recover sooner or mobile or real estate. Yeah, that's what this is about. That's one thing. Secondly, this example I was talking about, which I showed... Why does the creditor benefit? It therefore benefits that the fee, as the Court said at the outset, is less. It's not such a barrier that, like this woman... Well, she just had to borrow to pay the bailiff, and today she's paying interest on that loan. But most of all, it's about keeping it up to what the bailiff does. Well, it can't be taken from the moon. It cannot be that in 1 day's work, in 2 days' work there will be an amount of 12 thousand or, as in Warsaw now, an amount of about 25 or 30 thousand. Well, it can't be like that. These amounts are very high for every average person anyway. And in the end, here's what I'm gonna say. There's no way that's gonna happen when it comes to... The bailiff is from a given area because today there is such property property. Unfortunately, it is not yet available in terms of cash benefits. He must say so, enforce, but what this execution looks like must be corrected, Senator. And it's not a matter of how you say there's no way to know what the charges are, but that in a normal procedure, in a normal check, in normal supervision... Unfortunately, it will remain an activity, but I hope this ends... Because today these laws are still what they shouldn't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u150	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. You have made proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Jan Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: No, thank you.]] Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to these proposals and to prepare a report. I inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end... When?) [[Voice from the room: Today.]] It will be carried out today. Not at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The text of the Act is contained in print 584, and the report of the committee In print No 584 A. Wait a minute, Mr. Senator... There's no minister, right? [[Voice from the room: And there will be no.]] And it won't? [[Voice from the room: Yes. The government is not interested because it is a parliamentary project.]] Well, then I don't know if I should take a break... [[Voice from the Chamber: This concerns the Constitutional Tribunal. We invited... they didn't come either.]] The Constitutional Tribunal also... [[Mr. Marshal, the platform is watching over the bill, so that...]] He didn't come either. Well, it's kind of disrespectful, I guess. I don't like it, but we'll proceed with this point. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u151	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report on the work of the committee on the law on the status of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. This law refers to 3 areas. First of all, it defines the qualifications required of persons who may be elected as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. It extends these qualifications to persons who meet the requirements for being a judge of the Supreme Administrative Court. The second point, the second new issue, concerns a broad range of post-mortem benefits. The third area concerns the fact that we are extending the Supreme Court Act to the rights and duties of judges of the Court. Until now, the Court's rights and duties have been governed by Article. 43.45 of the Supreme Court Act. Now we're stretching it all over the bill. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after its publication. The Legislative Office has not raised any objections. Nor did the bill raise any controversy during the work of the committee. There were eight votes in favour, and we unanimously passed this bill. In the Sejm, the vote was as follows: 409 Members voted in favour, 8 against, 25 abstentions. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions requests that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u152	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you. The draft law was introduced by Members. Would a government representative like to speak? There's no government representative, actually. So there can't be any questions for a government representative either. [[There's no government representative?]] I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Point 9 of the agenda, the Act amending the Act on Local Workers... [[He was, he was, Mr. Marshal.]] ...has already been processed. I'll keep you posted for the record. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on amending the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Law on Public Procurement. The text of the Act is contained in print No 586 and the report of the committee In print No 586 A. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Can a point be considered without a minister?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But...]] [[Voice from the room: There is no minister.]] There's no minister. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: It's a break.]] [[Can I ask you a question? On a formal matter, Mr. Marshal.]] No, no... [['Cause I'd like to ask you if you can sit down in the absence of the minister.]] A break and an explanation of why there is no minister. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Break or point should fall out of order.]] There is no minister, there is no representative of the Minister of National Defence. Well, there has to be a minister or a deputy minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who was planned? [[Voice from the room: Bartosz Kownacki.]] Well, then, let me know. I'm declaring a recess until the minister arrives. [[How many minutes?]] [[How much?]] [[Until the minister arrives.]] [[Voice from the room: Upon arrival.]] [[Voice from the room: Wait a minute.]] [[This is a weird break, but okay.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: This, I'm sorry, until when do you take a break?]] Until the minister arrives. I don't know when the minister's coming. [[Voice from the room: We're looking.]] [[Then write... this is disregard for the Senate so that both ministers will not be there.]] I'm calling a 15-minute break. And then I'm gonna make a decision about... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 30 to 13 minutes 45]] The Minister is, isn't he? We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on amending the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Law on Public Procurement. The text of the Act is contained in print No 586 and the report of the committee In print No 586 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Officers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present a report of the Senate Committee on National Defence on the work of the commission on the law on amending the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Law on Public Procurement. At its meeting on 20 September, the Commission examined this law. It is worth to start by presenting the main objectives of the amendment of this law. I think that as if the foundation, the most important thing resulting from the amendment of this law is to improve the security of the Polish state, Polish citizens, and this is, of course, closely related, as many commanders and many experts say, with money. Money, money, money. As Mr Bartosz Kownacki said at the meeting, not only the Senate Committee, but also the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence, whose deliberations I also followed with interest, on behalf of the government, the present Minister Bartosz Kownacki, is a change in Copenhagen, a revolutionary change in the approach to reconstruction, modernisation and financing of the Polish Armed Forces. Such measures have never been planned to be spent on these purposes before. This is related, ladies and gentlemen, to the fulfilment of Poland's obligations as an ally of the North Atlantic Pact, the decision of the Newport Alliance Summit in 2014 and the commitments that were made in Warsaw at the 2016 summit. But this is also possible thanks to the fact that the government's approach by Prime Minister Beata Szydło in the form of a strategy of responsible development results from the care for the security of the Polish state and increased expenditure on the Armed Forces. What are the main objectives of amending this law? This is a gradual increase of the limit of expenditure on defence needs of the Republic of Poland from 2018 to 2030. Next year it would be 2% with rolling implementation up to 2,5% gross domestic product in 2030. An important element of this change is that the reference to the financing of these expenditures in a given financial year is changing, which is referred to as so-called. Natowska method. So next year it's going to be 2% calculated by financial year, and similarly in the following years, by 2030, so that it's 2.5% at that time. gross domestic product. The second important change is to increase the number of Polish Armed Forces to 200,000 soldiers, also in stages during this period. And here I would like to immediately draw attention to the element that raised the debate at the committee meeting and became the subject of the amendments examined by the committee in order to clarify a certain parameter. Namely, she on behalf of her club, at the same time after agreement with the Ministry of National Defence, we jointly introduced a precise, or actually ordering parameter, saying that a limit of up to 150 thousand professional soldiers is being introduced. There was a discussion on this issue and the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club tabled an amendment. This amendment has not received a majority and has been tabled as a minority proposal, which will be presented by President Grubski. Another important element, a major change in the proposed law, is the issue of increasing the one-off advance on orders made in the defence industry to 33%. So far it has been 25%, now increasing to 33%, of course after the advance payments made by the contractors have been cleared earlier. I would not like to move a certain political atmosphere associated with the discussion around the army's number, so I would just like to quote the Minister's statement on this subject: when the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party were finished, the army was 96 thousand soldiers, currently at the level of 101 000 soldiers. I would also like to inform you of what I am pleased to say that, in the vote on the bill, the committee, together with the amendment I tabled, voted unanimously in favour of it. I think that this is very brief in relation to the report and the course of the discussion. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u154	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the National Defence Committee, Senator Maciej Grubski, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u155	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, On behalf of the Senate Civic Platform Club, I would like to present a request from the minority that we submitted on 20 September at the Senate Committee on National Defence. It reads as follows: "In art. 1 in point 2, in Article. paragraph 3 is deleted. 2 and the designation of paragraph 2. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. By translating this provision into the contents of the bill, I'm going to say that the point is to delete the paragraph. Article 2 3. He in the original version of the bill which came to the Senate from the Sejm was as follows: within the number of posts referred to in paragraph. 1, not more than 130 thousand... As a result of the amendment by Senator President Rusiecki, which is to be introduced, we are talking here about 150 thousand. We're stuck with the art. 3 and with the content: The number of Armed Forces is no more than 200,000 posts of soldiers. Why do we propose such a solution? Minister, we don't trust this team that's running the Ministry of National Defence today. We want what the Civic Platform has been proposing as a governing party for 8 years, and especially our leader, in terms of defence, the best minister of national defence in my opinion, who proposed almost 10 years ago the conversion of the Polish army, then the army from conscription, into a professional army of 100 thousand. Today, of course, we are in favour and support, as Senator Rusiecki said, the whole of this law, because we are in favour of increasing the number of Polish troops due to the situation, because of the various parameters that exist today in Europe, but we want this army to be built on the basis of a professional army, not on the basis of the Territorial Defence Army. Therefore, we would like to suggest to the High House that you consider adopting our position so that this professional army develops as much as possible on the basis of professional soldiers, the best prepared, the best educated and the best ready to defend our homeland, and not the armies that I opposed, the armies that we train for 16 weeks and which today have shown how they are able to help in the event of natural disasters when they are not even able to move within the country. Therefore, I ask you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, to accept our minority proposal and vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Fedorovich came forward. I see, Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator Komarnicki...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Senator Rusiecki. I'd like you to describe it to me. as a person not very well-oriented in this area, which means that it is planned to reach the number of 200 thousand soldiers. Because I realized that under the Platform's rule in recent years, the army had 96,000 soldiers, and now there's been an increase of 5,000, because there are 101,000 soldiers. Are those possible 200,000 soldiers expected for years? And if so, how old would this be, let's call it, maybe I'm mispronounced, downloaded? And that's the second question. Can you tell me, Mr President, whether we will include territorial defence soldiers in this 200 000? Because this is very important to us in light of what Senator Grubski said a second ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u158	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm in a hurry to answer that question. As I said at the very beginning, the increased amount of funding is obviously linked to these two areas: technical modernisation itself, as well as increased numbers, for which financial resources are needed. So, getting to this 200 grand is in perspective. I hope that this will last for a shorter period of time until 2030. These 200 000 soldiers will consist of, like, two groups: professional soldiers and volunteers who are involved in the formation of a brigade of the Territorial Defence Army. Over the next few years, it will be about 50,000 soldiers. I diametrically disagree with the position put forward by Senator Grubski. The fact that the soldiers of the Territorial Defense Army are working well, the most recent days show the Dragon exercises are involved in them, interacting with the operational forces. I would like to say that the Polish army as the main force has operational soldiers, and the Territorial Defence Army is a necessary complement to cooperation in the implementation of defence tasks. It is currently being practiced as part of the planned exercise Dragon 17.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u160	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My questions aren't polemic, my questions are, so to speak, economical. As an entrepreneur, I'm always interested in how we spend our money, what we spend it on and how we settle. My first question is, what exactly is the extra money that this bill will give us? I remember a year ago when PiS applied for an increase in the mining restructuring fund. I remember those amounts. From 4 billion to 7 billion. At that time, like today, we were asking for money for what the extra 3 billion would go for, but we did not get an answer. However, we have seen 13, 14 and other additional salaries throughout this period. I hope that you, Mr. Senator, or the Minister will show us the responsibility and give us the detailed directions to which you would like to allocate these 2 billion a year. It's going to be, I understand, concrete. My second question is this. Last year, the Armory Inspector responsible for shopping for the Polish army Okay, here's the From PLN 7.5 billion spent PLN 5 billion in the form of advances. 70% The money's been spent, and the equipment's gone, and we don't know, to be honest, when it's gonna be. Is that your way of spending money? In my opinion, as an entrepreneur, this is reprehensible. 25 years I ran the company and never had an investor give me an advance. This is some kind of weird way of doing things. The most disgusting thing about this project is the record abolishing the obligation to settle an advance previously granted by demonstrating that the work in part has been carried out. At the moment, the contractor will not have to account for this first advance granted by demonstrating that he has performed part of the order. Why is such a provision included in this bill, Senator Rapporteur? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u162	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I think these specific questions are addressed directly to Minister Kownacki, who is responsible in the Ministry of National Defence for shopping and cooperation with the defence industry. I'm just gonna let you give me a little bit of a sketch... It's about the first question your senator raised. This isn't some random shopping. Polish army, Polish Armed Forces... The Ministry of National Defence is currently implementing operational programmes in the field of technical modernisation of the Polish Armed Forces. These programs, after the revision of the last year, are 14. I don't want to stress the importance of each of these programs right now. Each of them has its own great, so to speak, the importance associated with the functioning of the Polish Armed Forces, each of these operational programmes is important. The essence of this amendment is that the Polish Armed Forces should have the financial means guaranteed in a balanced way by the budget and that these funds could be spent on shopping, modernising and increasing the personal status of the Polish army. I think that this element will extend perfectly in his speech the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for a minority representative. In your explanatory statement, Senator, you said that you did not trust the current ruling crew and that your goal was to make as many professional soldiers as possible. Did I get that right? Yes. So far... This is what you proposed before. This is your record. So far there are up to 1/2 out of 150 thousand, or 75 thousand professional soldiers. Am I right? Good. According to your proposal, after the amendment has been adopted, there will be 150 thousand, which means twice as many professional soldiers. If the amendment hadn't passed In theory, it would be possible to say 130 thousand, which is also more. You're removing your mouths. 2, without changing your mouth. 1 current text. Art. 3 without mouth. 2 will sound like this: the number of Armed Forces is no more than 200,000 posts of soldiers. This means that those disliked by your executives will be able to create any number of professional soldiers. Of course, it could be bigger, but it might as well be smaller and higher. It's only $10,000. And that's gonna be in line with the bill. Don't you think that, with such an argument, your minority request is simply pointless and illogical?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u166	No, Mr. Senator. I believe that today's reality and those that were eight years ago when we introduced a professional army in Poland... The army was to count almost 100,000 soldiers and 25,000 NSR soldiers. That was the reality back then. Today's reality is different, and I don't think anyone has decided to check us out here on the security of the state by making a request you make. It goes on for example. It's about messing with the bill to create an army from the WOT itself, not a professional army. Our proposal is correct and shows the direction of our thinking. The point is that the professional army should be an army of maximum size, not that the security of our country should be made up of paramilitary groups. [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna ask you something because we didn't understand each other.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u167	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u168	I'm not filing any motion. I'm trying to understand what you're talking about. First of all, you say you have no confidence in the executive authority, and then you give that authority the freedom to shape the proportion between a professional soldier and a volunteer soldier. In the meantime, the legislator, having confidence in the executive authority, maybe limited, and yet trusting in the law states rigidly: 150 000 professional soldiers, twice as much as at the moment. That is in line with your argument. But you're making a motion that's inconsistent with your argument, and you're trying to explain that I'm making a motion. Mr. Senator, rapporteur for the minority proposal, do you understand the pronunciation of numbers? [[Mr. Senator, I understand...]] I made it clear. Is there anything else you can add here?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u169	No. But we stand by our proposal, and we consider that to be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u170	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u171	I would like to address the rapporteur for the minority proposal. Mr. Senator Grubski! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I have a question. I'm not hiding that public opinion. She is very interested in matters of the Polish army, to which she has always had great confidence. Tell me... We're talking about reorganization and a modern army. Do you think it's logical to decide that such huge funds are being spent on an army or, in fact, on some paramilitary troops? Don't you think it's a shame to spend so much budget money that could be useful for modernising the army? Of course, it's not, as far as I'm concerned, the subject of the bill, but we're still talking about it... Besides, I listened carefully to Senator Czerwiński's statement on logic. Well, either we're talking about the army, as President Rusiecki said, in order to reach the number of 200 000 professional soldiers... But you've been kind enough to say that there'll be WOTs among them. So the first part of my question is about spending money on troops that aren't any modern army, but I don't know which branch... Well, back in the old days, it was about defending against a guerrilla. And the second part of the question is where this professional army is supposed to be. What's the number? Because there are volunteers, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u172	Philosophy of the previous government He was so severely criticized by the ministry that there was no Polish army, there was no security; in fact, for two years we have been dealing with the formation of an army, with solutions supposed to push all of this forward, there was that we have a 100 thousand professional army plus some NSR members, a formation similar to the Territorial Defence Army. Today, it has been decided that we are developing WOTs to a large size of 50 thousand type of Armed Forces and we are giving it this symbol of the type of Armed Forces. In my view, it was a big mistake, because this money could actually be used better. As Senator Rusiecki said in his report, we in the framework of this law support 2 elements and support the whole. So we support an advance of 33%, because we think there are situations where there is a need to advance more than 25% , and we have supported an increase in resources since... actually from next year, since 2018, so the Minister stressed, because this indicator based on current GDP makes these funds 2 billion more per year, plus this increase by 0.1% For a few years. That's what we support. But I agree with the senator that the solutions for the uprising of the NSR, which we adopted, also as the High House, were wrong, in my opinion. We should invest and finance in the professional army, the most efficient, the most useful really in the case of the dangers of the various kinds that exist in today's Europe. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u173	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rotnicka. [[Mr Marshal, after this discussion between the Senator rapporteur, Mr Czerwiński, and now Senator Jurki Fedorowicz, I may give up speaking. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Senator Dobrzyński. Are you quitting, too? [[No, Mr. Marshal, I'm not quitting.]] No? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u174	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur. Mr. Senator, maybe I'll go a little beyond what's been going on, even though we talked about it on the committee, but... As far as representatives of the Civil Platform in the Senate are concerned, this is often referred to as modern army. I'll get back to the NSR. Mr. Senator, the NSRs didn't come out, they just didn't come out. And it's hard for me to point guilty here because that's not the point. I hope that our army and the strength of this army are beyond political disputes, although they exist. And when it comes to territorial defense, it just worked... [[Not yet. For now in the east.]] And this, Mr. Senator, is not an invention of our country, it functions in many countries, really very, very strong when it comes to weapons. So how do you understand this statement of modern armies? What do you think that means? I'd rather you focus more on personal matters, numbers about the army than on hardware. We know that when it comes to equipment, we need world-class equipment, we need modern equipment. And it would be good, Mr. Senator. I think you'll agree with me. To make this equipment as much as possible in our country. Then, in the event of armed conflicts, we would not have to ask an outsider for any supplies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u175	We will not be able to produce everything in the country because we do not have such technology, so of course we must also shop outside. What do I think the modern army is? This is a professional army in which a soldier within the working system, working hours, is available all the time, permanently, and not in a system of two-week, monthly meetings that are actually military fun. NSR? In fact, it didn't work out for us. But will the WOTs go to the end? Mr. Senator, don't be too sure about that, 'cause so far, it's just a group on the east side where society is naturally more convinced of this idea than it is in the west. I don't know if these garrisons are really gonna rise, and I wouldn't be so calm about the 50 grand being filled. I believe that the professional army should fulfil all kinds of responsibilities today in relation to the defence of our country. Let's not play paramilitary troops. Now that we've done this, let's not keep doing this big group, let's expand our professional army. Our request is that the professional army be as large as possible and count In the end, even more than 150,000 soldiers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u176	Thank you very much. No further questions, so we're done. [[And me, if you'll allow me...]] Oh, there you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u177	I would like to respond to this and ask you to change your thinking properly. The Territorial Defense Army is not a paramilitary organization. This is a volunteer Polish army. I encourage the senator to go to the International Defence Industry Salon next year, where he will be shown how a soldier of the Territorial Defence Army can be armed, among others. in the Polish modular rifle, which is one of the most modern in the world, and how it can be equipped with other technical equipment needed on the battlefield. It is a soldier who is also very well trained. There is no question of a two-week training course here, because, as you know, under the law, the training cycle of such a soldier lasts a total of 3 years. And one more very important thing I would ask you not to forget. We continue to put the main emphasis on modernization and weapons in the field of operations. Mr. Minister, I think he's gonna clarify what the operating army's expenses are. The Territorial Defence Army is a necessary complement to the Armed Forces' field of action. This is what we believe after observing the situation that is happening today not only in our part of Europe, but in the world at all. And I think that in that perspective we can be calm about the fact that all these types of Armed Forces, all kinds of troops, will cooperate with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u178	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u179	That's not gonna be a question-based statement. I would like to make it clear that no one here, Mr President, is going to question the value of a soldier, a man who stands up for our country. Our doubts are natural, because that's what we're in the Senate for, and that's why we're in the Senate, and that's why we're in the Senate, and that's why we're in the Senate, and that's why we're in the Senate, because we're in the Senate, because we're in the Senate, because we're in the Senate, because we're in the Senate, and we're in the Senate, because we're in the Senate, and we're in the Senate, and we're in the middle of this, and we're in the middle of thinking whether the funds spent on this type of operation and this kind of Armed Forces formation shouldn't be invested in other areas. Well, we divide the state budget and think about it together, but please, God forbid we think that we question the value of a Polish soldier, whether he's NSR or territorial. I want the public to be absolutely clear about this, because anyway, it's about defending the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u180	Thank you very much. That wasn't really a question. The draft of this bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please, Minister Bartosz Kownacki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! There are things in Poland that can connect us like nothing else. This was a matter of security for 30 years, of defence, of guarantee to all citizens that they could live in a safe country and are protected by a well-prepared, well-organized army. And this law, despite today's huge political disputes, which are, often in very deep digged ditches, which is a huge effort of the government, because it was necessary to find the financial resources, it could also be a huge success for all of us, a huge success for all Poles. She could connect us all, because I'm sure everyone who's here in this room is thinking, even though we have a different vision of coming to this security. The success of our nation's future. I strongly appealed during my work in the Sejm and here, in the Senate, at the committee meeting, so that we would look at the matter in this way. So we don't have to discuss territorial defence, because there was time and there will be. I have a different assessment of this formation than Mr. Senator and the representatives of the Civic Platform. I think we need it. I called on us not to judge how the Civic Platform ran and which minister was the best, because each of us has its own assessment. It is better to leave these matters and focus on whether this bill is needed or whether it can be a success all of us, possibly propose solutions that improve it. I have the impression that even in these discussions that are being held here, the desire to introduce another element of the dispute into our public life dominates what is the overriding value. As from the very beginning, the dispute about army numbers was de facto a media-publicist and populist dispute, not about real laws and facts. I must refer to this because our original proposal indicated the number of 130 000 professional soldiers, which would actually increase the possible number of professional soldiers by 5 000. Because according to the current wording of the Act, the Polish army has 150,000 soldiers. If we subtract from the Army of Territorial Defence, I leave what was foreseen for the NSR, 20 thousand, and the Preparatory Service, 5,000, it can be said, without any further hesitation, that the maximum number of professional soldiers is 125 thousand. That's why we put in 130 grand to actually go for a little bit more. And there was a great fight, a huge media dispute started, instead of focusing on what was most important, and looking for money for the modernization and development of the Polish army. We've proposed... In agreement with the Senate and the Ministry of National Defence, we have developed a concept that will cut through any doubts and disputes. There was no secret intention of the Minister of National Defence to limit the Polish army. And we proposed an amendment on 150,000 which should end this dispute and show that there is a good will for us to talk about security and defence, listen to each other and prepare the best solutions for the Polish army. You have proposed an amendment which, as it is literally read, Senator Czerwiński spoke about it. In general, it ignores the issue of the number of professional soldiers because it deletes the mouth. 2. So it's nothing to do with what you said about the fact that 130 grand is a restriction on the Polish army. If I wanted to behave in the same way now, I would say that you want to eliminate the professional army because that is the content of this amendment. And you don't want a professional army in Poland. But that wasn't the intention. The intention was to make your own amendment. Perhaps you have not yet known that we will have another solution. This shows that there is a lack of dialogue, dialogue and some constructive discussion even in matters that are really fundamental. The second point raised by the senator was that the Polish army should have 200,000 professional soldiers. This is not the result of this amendment. As a matter of principle, I agree, because then we would probably be above the European average, and since we are NATO's Flank State, we should have this factor slightly higher, so 200 000 professional soldiers This would indeed be a valuable solution, regardless of the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army and the Preparatory Service. It's just, Mr. Senator, we need to address the amounts we're talking about and the forecasts. If it were to be, as you would like it to be, 200,000 professional soldiers. Once again, I would like to stress that this has nothing to do with the amendment you have proposed. It's money for modernisation, and this is where I'm going to go to answer the next questions, i.e. There would be no money to arm the Polish army, because, in view of the financial possibilities, the personnel costs would eat, so to speak, the entire process of modernization. And this shows that this argument is also being thrown not so that we can solve this problem together and enjoy the success that we will be able to announce in a moment, just so that we can have a discussion in a direction that has nothing to do with reality. After all, you, I am convinced, are not in favour of every soldier having only a rifle and nothing else, so that there is no proper armoured technique, adequate aerospace technique, proper diagnosis. I'm sure you're thinking about it, too, but if you make that argument, you're going to go against what you're definitely thinking somewhere... that you're thinking deeply about. I therefore call once again for a substantive discussion. The senator asked me what the money was going to be spent on. Indeed, this is a very important issue. For two main aspects, and it is a matter of property It is about the reconstruction of the largely devastated infrastructure or the construction of a new one that is needed. As well as the modernization of the Polish army, which will absorb the largest amount of resources in terms of increasing expenditure. Because we need... I can't tell you today. For various reasons, for example because the sitting is public, there can be no specific figures here... Furthermore, when the law is adopted, the technical modernisation plan can be amended to take account of these additional measures. But I'm going to say that every military sphere requires a huge amount of money, because also armored troops, and rocket troops, and anti-aircraft defense, which is de facto lying and which... The Vistula programme itself is estimated to be PLN 30 billion. And without that increase in defence spending, there wouldn't be a chance of that. Let's leave the choppers behind, but there are also multi-tasking planes... Each of these spheres of life needs expenses, huge expenses, therefore a penny of money will be devoted to modernising the Polish army, as well as to increasing the size of the Polish army, both in terms of professional soldiers and here we must mention the Territorial Defence Forces. You just have to have a ratio in this case. I don't want to have a WOT discussion here. There'll be time for that. But I will say that the cost of creating the Territorial Defence Army is estimated at PLN 3 billion, and that is as much as the cost of several or several well-equipped helicopters. So let's just leave it. But it's not like this money's gonna be consumed by the Territorial Defense Army. They will be consummated by two things: modernising the Polish army and increasing the size of the Polish army, understood both as increasing the number of professional soldiers, as well as as creating a Territorial Defence Army. There is also the question of advance payments, because it was also a matter that was raised. I mean, I don't wanna argue here, but I've had a lot of advance payments. Talking to an entrepreneur, ordering something from an entrepreneur, whether it's furniture, whether it's renovating at home in an apartment... Advances are provided for in the Civil Code and are practice, they are natural, and so I would not like to lead to this dispute. But when it comes to such large modernisation projects, advance payments are necessary in such situations. I will say more: many foreign companies, non-Polish companies, but I no longer want to enter into specific proceedings It expects for some projects to pay the total amount, so it's not even about the advance, it's about paying the whole to get the equipment at all. That's one thing. Second thing: if we hadn't... Besides, they were introduced by the Civic Platform in the previous burden of the law, and we just increased the potential possible advance rate by 8%. And if these advances had not been made, And that's the question. Would this part of the Polish industry, under which we will order, be able to obtain such credit at all? Because this is about projects worth several billion or sometimes several billion zlotys, and the Polish arms industry is not strong enough to obtain such credit. And if he even got it, then, as you know, every credit costs In view of the different risks, the product concerned would ultimately be much more expensive. Because the money raised from the state is cheaper than the money raised on the market, especially in the case of companies that are not the size of large multinationals such as Lockheed Martin, Raytheon or Airbus. The argument here is that advances are wrongly spent or spent, but there is no equipment. Mr. Senator, I'd like to invite you to join the military units. I'll give you a few examples. Last year, in 2016, we had a big program in advance. The programme "Raq'. It was an expense of about PLN 1 billion per programme as a whole, and the advance was, of course, relatively smaller. It was an expense from 2016 and in 2017 I participated myself in the celebrations in Międzyrzeń 2 months ago. The first Rakis have been introduced into the equipment. Last year we signed a contract for the Krabby, the largest Polish armory in the history of the Polish armory. The first Crabs 3 weeks ago were introduced to the equipment. So this narrative that the equipment is pre-financing, orders are pre-financing, but they do not end up in the Polish army, it is untrue and untraceable. If we're having problems, maybe with the AJT program, which was in advance in the previous term. Until now, due to some shortcomings on the part of the contractor, this has not yet been taken away. It's not good... There are incidents like this. Sometimes it wasn't the main producer who did it, it was someone else. But it is not that money is spent, and the Polish army does not change and does not change. It's quite the opposite. It's worth remembering. It is not good if we are talking about defence matters, about our common security issues, whether we are talking in an unreliable way or in a demagogic way, or if we are trying to gain some political advantage. It is worth talking in such a way as to indicate And you, too, because that's your job. The mistakes, but the real mistakes that are made... No crew can avoid them. Only one who doesn't do anything doesn't make mistakes. I would appeal for this bill to... I hope it will be adopted unanimously by the Senate. In the Lower House there were, let's say, disdainful exceptions. I would like this bill to be adopted unanimously and to be what we all have in common. The safety and future of Poland are certainly very important for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Gaweł.]] Senator Gawel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u183	Minister, I have a question. From the opposition we hear a very serious criticism of changes in the Polish army. I'd like to know from you whether you, as the Ministry, have the information you can disclose today and which would be valid to me regarding... What are the opinions, e.g. in Russia or in any other serious country about changes in the Polish army?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u184	Are there any more questions? [[Senator Komarnicki.]] Then maybe we can collect three questions, and then the Minister will answer. Mr. Senator Komarnicki, and then Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u185	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a warm and cordial request for you. I don't think there are people in this room who wouldn't want our army to grow. I thank you for the part where you explained to me... As an entrepreneur with a 25-year internship who never avoided taxes, he never cheated on you. I know what the money was going for. It's annoying how often it's said on TV that we're going to spend a lot of money, that another program, that another program... And the voters are asking if anything has been bought under these dozen programs. Today, fortunately, he shows up with a lot of knowledge... The interplay is in my district, and I'm very glad you spoke of this weaponry. I'd love to be invited there. However, I have a strong economic request for you, because I never discuss too politically, but economically. As far as Polish companies are concerned, I am in favour of advance payments, because I would like Polish companies to develop. I know how hard it is... On my knees I worked without capital, I had to create it myself. But I do not agree with you that foreign companies look at the Republic as a gratifying bit of huge money for arms. And I will never agree with you, and I will never agree with those who make the tenders, that you can't make a tender in many countries that have similar military products at a very high level, I won't agree that you can't play with them by issuing a tender: please, buy, but without an advance. And I ask you very much to play economically with Western companies, because they often blackmail. That's not much, I know, because I've found out that they can make a deal. I'm paying attention to it because it's very important money. We should, I agree fully, give the advance to up to 80% of Polish companies, but I do not agree to give advances to Western companies, which accumulate over 100 years in terms of money, still look for naive ones when it comes to these advances. And one small question I have to ask. Not long ago, on TV, a specialist, the creator of the GROM, compared his educated specialist in combat with 150 people from so-called. territorial protection. One soldier manages, Minister, with a group of 150 people. I understand... I do not judge whether territorial defence should be or not, but, I understand, territorial defence will have a completely different task. Because this relationship that the creator of the GROM was talking about, comparing one specialized soldier with a 150-man group of territorial armies, was shocking. [[Mr. Senator, who was that?]] I'll tell you at break.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u186	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u187	Minister, there's not enough money for security, I don't think, in any country. But I have the impression that we intend to build our safety only on the basis of reinforcements. It is extremely possible to assume that as part of various activities, not only military ones, we are building a rocket curtain in the east and north of Poland. The effects are already visible, the border with Kaliningrad has been closed. This idea of Europe from the Atlantic at least until the Urals will undoubtedly be buried. The second is that not enough security means not only that today we are increasing these resources, but that we are launching a spiral of arms, because the enemy, the enemy, will arm itself. We adopted the principle of friendly countries at the borders of the Polish state within the framework of the solidarity camp policy. And it's been going on for many years. We didn't have any arguments, we didn't even arm ourselves, I'll tell you more, we were spoiling the army. I don't want to say it ugly. It is about resigning from compulsory military service. And the third issue. There is no denying that President Trump's friendly gestures are friendly gestures behind which orders for 150 billion in the United States hide. I am surprised that only President Trump welcomes our president. The entire U.S. government should welcome, as arms are the domain of the U.S. government. Does it exist in all these things, I'd say, optimal, some balance... [[Mr. Senator, let me remind you of the time limit.]] Is there an optimal balance in this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u188	Thank you. Minister, please... [[Ad vocem. Can I ad vocem?]] Please, ad vocem. [[The question can't be ad vocem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u189	Since these statements of Senator Rulewski also contained some views, I would like to stress that these are the private views of Senator Rulewski, which do not reflect the views of the Civic Platform. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u190	Thank you. [[Excuse me...]] I think the senator even stepped out of the Platform. Yes? I don't know if...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u191	In the form of a replica. First of all, not in private, I'm a senator... [[But the microphone, Mr. Senator.]] I'm a senator and I'm responsible for what I say. It wasn't an opinion, it was a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u192	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, with regard to Senator Gawl's question, I'm going to say that, of course, it's not possible to speak publicly and openly about everything. But I can see what the reactions are not only of the United States mentioned here, but also of other allied states, which appreciate the fact that the Polish army is modernising, changing and that we have defence spending such as the leaders of the North Atlantic Treaty countries. And it really makes it easier for our soldiers, our officers, to talk and change their position. It is also worth noting how Russia reacts to all this, what are the provocative actions, various kinds of actions, towards Minister Macierewicz or press articles, because this is also what you see in Russia itself. Because what is an intra-national action calculated to dissuade Polish security is one thing, but on the other hand there are very rational assessments in Russia itself, where there are statements of Russian experts who see that Poland is probably the only country in this part. Europe would be able to resist aggression. I think that's the simplest answer to your question. About Senator Komarnicki's question, what programs... Once again, when there's money, you'll be able to say exactly. But there are a number of programs we've done in recent years. I'm willing to give you at least a basic statement... Anyway, I know that one of the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform asked for the whole thing, but it's going to be hundreds of pages, if not thousands of pages. But it is possible to mention.Raki,.Krabs, bridges JASSM missiles, Poprady. There are a lot of programs that have already been contracted, and a number of them are being implemented, as well as those that we are planning in the near future and which are the biggest ones. And this is certainly a matter of the mid- and short-range air defense system, i.e. the Vistula, as well as the Narvi. It's going to be a very big expense, probably the biggest one in terms of our safety. It's certainly the Homar programme, and it's also a question of the amount of probably a dozen billion zlotys. I'm sure it's about multi-tasking planes, certainly helicopters in the right proportion, because you need both transport and impact. It is a question of building submarines as well as submarines, but first of all submarines; the program "Orka" is another few, let's not do a dozen, billion zlotys. This is what I can exchange publicly without taking into account the relevant security clause, as well as without verifying the money that will be in the forecast in a moment. Because it's only after this forecast, that we can seriously contract, because the problem is not to sign the contract, but then find money for it. As regards advances I'll get back to it. This is the current legislation, and we want to change it a little bit, which means that according to Polish law we can in advance Western countries, I am talking about purchases even in the form of FMCs 100% and the Polish entrepreneur 25%. I don't think it's right, it should be the other way around. Of course, it would be best if there were no advances at all, especially when it comes to foreign entrepreneurs. It's just, Mr. Senator, there's nothing for free, there's no free dinner. Perhaps they will be ready, only the cost of money won by them will be much higher, i.e. the offer for which the Polish taxpayer will have to pay will be much more expensive. So this is where we have to balance the rations accordingly. The third issue, which is the Territorial Defence Army in comparison with the GROM. In general, the tasks of both formations are different. In addition, it can be said that the pilot who flies a multi-tasking aircraft is not available at all for example. The territorial defense forces and even 300 soldiers can't handle it. So it is unreasonable to put things like that. It is huge and difficult to overestimated the value of the Special Forces, as well as the huge value of the Territorial Defence Army. Let's not compare that. Because you can always say, and the training and costs of this one soldier versus the costs of a soldier's territorial defense? Everything depends on a certain narrative that will be accepted. Senator Rulewski's question. Mr. Senator, we're not the ones acting aggressively in Europe today, not Poland acting aggressively. There is at least one country at our borders that is doing so, and this reality needs to be adapted. If we want, of course, not just military procedures, because also in other ways, for example through talks, through diplomacy, to raise our position in international relations, we must have a strong army. [[The coalition...]] We need an army that matters. We need to be able to defend ourselves to count on our allies. If we're defenseless, no ally can help us. The weak don't want to help. Others want to help the strong, and we must remember that. I'm talking about the arms race. Russia's expenditure, which we are all thinking about here, is much greater both in absolute figures and in the share of GDP. And it is difficult to talk about any escalation from a country such as Poland. Rather, we want to have the right guarantees so that we can feel safe and that our allies, due to the level of training, preparation and weapons of the Polish army, are able, are able to come to our aid in time. That's all it's all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three questions. Two short and one slightly longer. Could you indicate the amount in the 2017 budget, if more than we had to spend on defence in applying the new calculation procedure, i.e. taking into account GDP, as NATO counts rather than what we had previously counted? That's one thing. Second. I would like to ask you about countries whose NATO defence expenditure, according to the Natovian terminology, exceeds 2% at the moment. GDP and expenditure exceeding 2,5% That's the level we're trying to reach. Three. That question is more descriptive. Do you intend to introduce general military training, youth protection in upper secondary or secondary schools? If so, when and will there be any piloting of such a program? [[There used to be a defensive attitude.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u196	Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As for the first question, we're going to spend it on defense this year. Everything points to that, so we tried to plan a budget of 2%. GDP according to the Natovian nomenclature, i.e. in relation to data from a given year. The problem is that this year we had to fight for it and that all of this is difficult, although this is guaranteed by the budget law. Right? There is a difference of about PLN 2 billion. From next year, regardless of GDP growth, we will have 2 billion PLN more for Polish defence. Growth to 2,5% ...It is so distributed...Each tenth is estimated to be about PLN 2 billion today. The responsibility for the increase in defence expenditure is spread to the current government, to the government that will be after the next elections, and to the next two governments, if the terms of office do not shorten, because then it can be imposed. It is as if evenly distributed, so that in one year there is no increase in defence expenditure. If we were to get not 2 billion a year, and 20 billion PLN more... I'm afraid it wouldn't be rational to spend money. There would be a lot of money to spend quickly, and it is known that there are procedures and that soldiers need to be trained. And that money would just be wrongly spent. It's all rationally distributed so as not to disrupt the extraction process, to strengthen it, to intensify it, and to simply not waste money. Second line. Which countries spend more than 2% GDP? We're among five countries... If we reach 2.5% GDP... [[Then we'll be the only ones.]] Excuse me? [[We'll be the only country...]] Oh, no. The United States is here. I'm sure we'll be in jail. This is also a matter of the United States. Let's see what she'll look like at least... [[Great Britain...]] Great Britain is a country that also spends on defence much more than 2% GDP. We're definitely gonna be in jail, and we're gonna miss the United States a lot. I'm not talking about absolute numbers anymore. As far as military training is concerned, I would not like to comment on this at this point, because I would also have to make a personal statement about it. This is certainly the subject of interest, work and evaluation of the Ministry of National Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u198	Is that all? Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u199	The idea of creating European defence forces is being considered in Europe. My question, of course, is related to today's topic. Will such strengthening of defence capacity in European defence make it necessary to raise the budget? That, of course, I understand, will also provide greater security. Is it possible that this amount belongs as if Polish participation in these European defence forces and will Poland join them in a declarative or financial manner?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u200	Are there any more questions? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You were just talking about a financial contribution, so to speak, individual NATO members. When we were in Brussels at the autumn session, we learned as a parliamentary group from the panel that we are practically a leader and such powers as wealth, such as Germany, France, for example. 0.8% This indicator has been exchanged And they don't want to pay anymore. My question is simple. How do you react, Ministers, at a meeting with the ministers of these very countries and how you try to force them? For the sake of simple solidarity, So if we're gonna fight back together, we're gonna pay the same? 'Cause like he told us the other day, the panel on defense, if anyone assaults us, and who's the fastest that can happen to us, we know... [[Russians!]] Well, it's written that the other countries with the rescue are supposed to come and have to come, but within 27 days. So if other countries are, as far as the level of training is concerned, the level of the army, at the basic level, then this defensive may not be effective and come too late. And my second question. This government, taking over this resort, taking over the army, at least there was such conviction, such information reached me, I'm not talking about defence efficiency... There was a belief that in the previous one that I would say so, the army was too much overpower of command, mostly generalization. How's this working out right now? Has anything changed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u202	Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as Senator Rulewski's question about European defence is concerned, we do not yet know what shape it will ultimately be. We must certainly have our own strong army, and we must certainly look at this European trend. I mean, one can't rule out another. We cannot give up our own army, our own defence for this European defence, and we must also participate in what will happen in Europe in this regard. How will this be financed? I will say from my position today as Deputy Minister of National Defence: it is best that there be additional resources for possible such actions. But I'm sure the finance minister is about to say, "Well, it's already 2.5%." Defense funds, so generate something around it, let's put these resources into some kind of joint defence action as well. Today, it is difficult to assess if we are talking about more money that would be spent on it. It is a question of discussing and setting certain priorities and the state in which the army is, because perhaps after 2030, when we reach, I hope, the level of modernisation that guarantees full safety will be able to consider various types of shifts in this area. or perhaps an increase in expenditure. I'd also like you to remember that 2.5% GDP is the minimum that guarantees us safety. According to any analysis, 3% would actually be perfectly perfect, but it also has to be as rational as any decision. Account must also be taken of the possibilities of absorption of these expenditures, the rational allocation of them. As for Senator Lyczak's question, it is such a problem that we cannot force anyone. President Trump has repeatedly stressed And it was also said during his election campaign that if Europe wants to feel safe and count on its allies, it must also spend money itself, because otherwise it is simply unfair. It's like preying on others. Because, of course, this money goes to other expenses, not security issues, because it's important that the Americans always come to help or that the eastern flanks have to arm themselves anyway, and they have to upgrade to feel relatively safe. Yeah, well, it's in these groups, except for the show, the pressure and the conversations that are being conducted... And that is, I suspect, also for the whole group that deals with defence in these countries, a big problem. Because there's a gap between the decision makers, between those who give tone to politics and the Minister of Defense. I am no longer talking about soldiers and officers who, on the one hand, can be said, ashamed, on the other hand they say: we would like it to be the same as in Poland, we would like this expenditure to be the same as in Poland, we envy you. It is also a question of making European societies aware of the extent to which there may be a threat at our eastern borders. Unfortunately, Europe has been de facto disarmed in the last 30 years, thinking that this is such a phase of civilization that wartime is over, whereas it is completely different and, as you say, you want peace, get ready for war, these countries should also spend more on defence. It can also be seen that the problem of modernising and increasing expenditure in individual countries is perceived and, somewhere, these forecasts indicate that these expenditures will increase, although it is difficult to estimate that they exceed the level of commitments made at the Newport Summit, i.e. 2%. GDP in terms of the Natow average. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u204	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u205	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I wasn't gonna ask the question. The question I was going to ask was Senator Rulewski, and very well. [[I'm sorry.]] I asked Mr Szymanski this question in the course of the discussion, he was unable to answer, and you have also now fled from the specific answer to this question, so may I clarify. What is the position of the Polish Minister of National Defence in the matter of Eurocorpus at the moment, and is there money budgeted for it? What does it look like, and what's it gonna be like next year? Tell me exactly what's going on. Thank you very much. [[He did say that.]] [[He did.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u206	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u207	Mrs. Senator, the European defence and the joint defence, the Eurocorpus, are two completely different things, so Senator Rulevski's question concerned completely different issues, issues of the future. We try in various kinds... not only in Eurocorp, which is worth getting closer to, with its structure, with what it looks like, what the tasks are... We participate in various kinds of European and Natovian cooperation. We are now building a component in Elbląg, which requires a lot of involvement of Polish officers, Polish soldiers with proper knowledge of languages, with appropriate experience. So it's not like we're putting ourselves outside European or allies. On the contrary, not only because of how much money we spend, but also because of our active participation in many different activities. We are given as an example, a pattern. And it is not worth it that things that are rather sensational, rather than our position among our allies, dominate. Our position today is really strong and we are, often it also requires financial resources, loyal to our allies. As far as Eurocorp is concerned, the measures envisaged will be secured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u209	Within these increased resources, will the military, army, MON pay off its commitments to other institutions in Poland, and in particular What do you know? Will he pay for MON's use of the airport in Bydgoszcz by local government company... no, state government? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u210	Mr. Senator, this case is well known to me, I am a parliamentarian from Bydgoszcz, and I would like to say that everything that is really in accordance with the applicable laws, which the law allows, is being done. Now I'm not ready to tell you exactly what amount has been transferred over the past years to Bydgoszcz Airport... [[It's too small.]] Plus, I'll get right over it. ...but it's not like we can skip the law... We have no obligations according to this legal assessment that has been carried out. If there was a legal obligation, if there was an obligation that we were able to recognise under the applicable laws, it would be the Ministry of National Defence, as I'm sure you know very well, it would have already paid the right amount for this debt to be borne by us. Unfortunately, in the light of the applicable law, the Ministry of National Defence does not have such an obligation, although the airport would like to raise money and try to find different arguments. And to the extent that it's possible, I'm sure any airport that affects the security of the state... ♪ 'Cause you gotta remember ♪ about the fact that this airport is located next to Military Aviation Plant No. 2 in Bydgoszcz and, from this point of view, is crucial for this facility. It must be so that you can operate aircraft that are being renovated there, both civilian and military. So the future of this airport is a priority for the Ministry of National Defence. We have also said many times that if the local government does not want to finance this airport, we will find other formulas known in the Ministry of National Defence, so that this airport will operate for military purposes. So there is certainly great kindness here, there is understanding, but it must be based on the laws in force. It would also be worth noting that the airport would increase the number of passengers rather than reduce it, because today it is one of those ports where the number of passengers, as I remember, is falling rather than increasing. I hope I am not mistaken, but even if there is growth there, it is minimal with the huge dynamics of ports such as Kraków, Katowice and Wrocław, not to mention Warsaw. So you can see that there is also a problem with the business model that was adopted there. [[NATO training centre and NATO military hospital...]] Thus, there are many possibilities for operating this airport, only a rational business model has to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u211	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[I have a question.]] Senator Zdrojewska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u212	I'm sorry, but it's not my fault, because the honourable minister answered a question I didn't ask about some strange things while I didn't ask anything like that at all. I've been asking you some specific questions, and I'm gonna ask you again if there's gonna be a change... Maybe I'll rephrase the question. Please answer yes or no. Will our financial participation in Eurocorp change, or will there not be such a change?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u213	Senator, these are the amounts of millions of zlotys. I really don't have the scale to say what it looked like in 2016, what it looks like in 2017 or what it's going to look like in 2018. We're on schedule. Those funds that have been planned will be transferred. If you want the right numbers, of course there are modes in which these exact numbers can be presented. I don't have an exact amount in my mind right now, and I'm not able to relate to it exactly as to the dollar. Thank you. [[Then I'll ask you to answer in writing. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u214	Good. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Zdrojewska. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bogdan Klich was the first to speak. Technical information. I'll have a half-hour break at 3:30. At 4:00 p.m. We're going to vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Minister doesn't have to appeal to us to be in favour of increasing our defence spending, because that's who we are. The Civic Platform voted in favour of this bill in the Sejm. Similarly, in the Senate we will vote in favour of increasing defence spending, because we are aware that first of all, this is a fundamental issue, and the situation in our immediate surroundings is becoming increasingly difficult. Putin did not succeed in maneuvering or the great plan to create Novorosia. After all, President Putin wanted to cut Ukraine by about 1/3 and create a whole new state from several Ukrainian regions. He failed to do so, but he managed to annex Crimea illegally and bring 30,000 soldiers into Ukraine, or actually create a 30-thousand inner army in Donbas, around which there are 80,000 soldiers, constantly surrounding this Donbas from the east and from... above all from the east. They're constantly exchanging personnel between Russia and this circuit. And that's a matter that's extremely disturbing. Secondly, President Putin introduced Russian troops into the Middle East, actually escalating the conflict in Syria and leading to the fact that this Syrian conflict is now more difficult to resolve than before. This is the second war theatre where Russia shows its muscles. Finally, there is the third place to remember, which is Belarus, where, practically speaking, the military defence systems of Russia and Belarus have been fully integrated. This is no longer the situation that took place during the exercise, the collapse of 2009 and here we are dealing with the full integration of the defence systems of both countries. So not only is it the exercise of.Zapad 2017, but also the knowledge we have makes us increase the expenditure on defence. The State proposes here that this increase in expenditure should start next year And that's good news. I just assume that the government has carefully calculated the financial possibilities of the state, because it is better to declare something that will be realized than something that will not be realized. The Minister personally assured us at the meeting of the National Defence Committee that such calculations had been carried out. And I trust your declaration. As regards the change in the system of accounting for these 2% And more for defense expenses, that's risky. The Ministry of National Defense must be aware of that. As long as it was possible to clearly plan expenditure on the basis of GDP from the previous year, because it was known what GDP was, it is more difficult to plan expenditure for the next year on the basis of GDP, which is only estimated and not known. But I assume the Ministry is aware of that risk, too. The Minister replied at the committee meeting But only at the committee meeting, for my doubts about the staff structure of the Polish army. I'd like the Minister to repeat it in this courtroom. Because the plenary room is upstairs from the Chamber of the Committee on National Defence, because I am really worried about the fact that the article has been deleted. 2 (2) 1 of the current Act of paragraph 10 and the new wording, even with this self-correction, which has been notified by the state, or with this amendment which we have tabled, specifically by Senator Libicki and Senator Grubski... This is to delete the statement that the limit on officers cannot exceed 1/3 of the state of office of the armed forces. I hope you are not going to lead to the reconstruction of the permanent structure of the Polish army. I hope you're not going to waste this effort. And it was a joint effort, from 2003 to June 2011, undertaken by all or many, under the leadership of Minister Szmajdziński, Minister Sikorski, Minister Szczygła and my leading to radical reconstruction of the Polish army's staff structure inherited from the Polish People's Republic to the one in which there are relatively least officers, a little more petty officers and the most private. Because such a pyramidal permanent structure is the right structure, not the one we inherited from the 1990s, when the most were positions in the Petty Officers' and Ensigns' corps, relatively much too much in the officers' corps, and far too little in the private corps. So it's a clear statement, a confirmation... [[Cell phone signal]] [[Excuse me. Please mute your mobile phones or turn them off.]] So this is my point only from hearing here from the Minister a declaration that you have already made downstairs, i.e. that you do not intend to rebuild the permanent structure of the Polish army by deleting from the current law this upper ceiling 1/3 posts for officers. The Minister spoke about the modernisation expenses you want to increase. Excellent. You're going to spend more money on this. Excellent. We'll take your word for it. It is a pity that you have not introduced an appropriate amendment in this law, because there is a provision of at least 20%, which is intended to be used for property expenses, i.e. de facto for the modernisation of our Armed Forces. Yes, it is in line with the position taken by our allies in Newport that it is to be at least 20%. It's an amount below that, but maybe it'd be worth thinking about raising that level, for example. up to 25%. Then we'd be more comfortable if your words translate, so to speak, into statutory records. Therefore, our club will support this law with the amendments adopted, because we believe that, as long as the government has properly calculated the funds for the next year and for the next years, it is worth investing in our defence because of the environment in which we are in. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u216	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u217	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator... Mr. Senator Komarnicki! [[Excuse me.]] Honestly, I don't believe it myself, but I don't believe what you're saying, because you're a really substantive person, just in the form in which you address the opposition senators, both at the committee meeting and today's sitting. It's been a long time since we've had such a concerted approach to the opposition. It would also happen in such a situation. Not on your behalf, but on behalf of you, Minister Macierewicz, apologize for what has been said over the past two years about our ministers, about Bogdan Klich and Minister Semoniak, and for how much slop has been poured out. I am happy with this formula because we are starting to talk to each other, but the word'sorry' should fall because so much was done during the reign of the Civic Platform and the PSL, that you should appreciate it, not say at the beginning of your management of the Ministry of National Defence that there was no Polish army that the Polish army did not exist. Why did you do that? I'm happy with the formula of this conversation today. Maybe the PO-PiS between us will not be on the committee, but maybe this formula will cause us to work together on normal terms. I ask only one thing, to tell the Minister that he should say "I'm sorry." This bill will be supported by us because we are in favour of supporting the Polish army, modernising the Polish army, enriching the Polish army with resources. Thank you for that, but let us also remember that it was the government of the Civic Platform that first came to this ratio of 2%. It was we who proposed this solution, and thanks to this, 800 million zlotys more, they appeared in the Polish army. Praise be to the fact that by 2030 we will have much more of these measures. I will, of course, vote in favour of this bill. I also support these changes, which concern advances for the Polish arms industry, because we need to support this industry. I agree with the opinion expressed by the Minister in response to my question at the committee meeting. I wasn't sure what you were thinking, but you convinced me that the money being dragged into the market, in credit, would be more expensive, and that as a result the final product would be more expensive. Therefore, it is worth making sure that these advances in the course of purchases are implemented. Thank you again for this formula, Minister. I will vote in favour, and I hope that we will continue to work together this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u218	Thank you very much, Senator. And Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm glad you're here because I have an opportunity to tell you a few things about what you're doing in the military, what you're doing with the military, what you're doing with the officers, what you're doing with the tenders. Minister, the situation at Poland's borders is obviously not good at the moment. And it's not an answer to this situation, in principle, calling a new army, the Territorial Defence Army, in the number of 50,000. 'Cause what's with the extra 50,000 under-trained soldiers... Although I hear it's supposed to be our Specnaz. But this is not the kind of territorial defence that the Finns have prepared, who train these units, including the Border Guard's reserve units, prepare for possible guerrilla, diversionary conflict and action. But these people are mostly people who are or were in the border guard or in the army, and now they're in this type of unit. Also the territory of Poland is not the territory of Finland. This is an open territory on the east side. There are no mountains there, and forests may have had a significant impact on guerrilla activities during World War II, but they do not have it at the moment when helicopters, thermovision and various means are in use that were never dreamed of during World War II. You want to counter this territorial defense, which is 50,000 men armed with light weapons, three Russian armies with 10 armored divisions? After all, it's such a discrepancy that I don't even want to criticize it. You're responsible for the shopping. I'll start with the helicopters. Helicopters at a similar level in terms of technology are produced by various companies, several companies, undoubtedly. American, French, European. The same is true of submarines - Germany, French, American. Missile weapons... Well, in fact, it's undoubtedly the best Americans make. So if the equipment is of similar quality, then it is political choice. He also chooses to have deliveries and also to establish alliances. Because shopping is also about building alliances. So you can imagine a situation like this. Or you should imagine such a situation. That these groceries, which means this fat bite, will get each of our allies, will get one piece at a time: anti-missile weapons, submarines, French or Germans, and helicopters, French or Italians, Americans. You can't and shouldn't put everything in the basket of one ally for political reasons. Apart from the United States, which is our main ally, however, we have Germany, the French, who have a second army in Europe, and the British. What happened? You're breaking off your contract at Karakale. It's okay. You think this is a bad contract. But you're talking about some kind of fork. And that's your comment on the alliance with the French? That we taught the French to eat with a fork? And then you want to build a good relationship? French troops took part in maneuvers in Poland a few years ago. They're taking it now? Do you think that this kind of response doesn't just affect personal relationships... These personal relationships translate into state relations. Well, you can't do that. Defensiveness, security of Poland are too serious things to do serious things and to say ridiculous things. What do we do about this country, which is the back room for us? You mean Germany? We're raising the matter of reparation. I was talking about what consequences this might have in the future when it comes to the integrity of the borders, because from that side probably someone can talk and answer. And we're gonna have a problem with that. But what psychological significance does this have towards a country that is our main ally in Europe? Because it's his territory that the American forces will enter. We'll use his territory in case of conflict. Doesn't anybody in the government control it? Isn't anyone coordinating this policy? Doesn't he think long-term? Your boss's conflict with the president is an internal problem with the PiS and I don't want to deal with it. Nevertheless, it is not a good situation when the Chief of the Armed Forces... when the Minister of Defense is in conflict with the President. The president has to write letters to him, ask for an explanation. The question of a general who deals with contacts with officers in BBN and oversees the appointment of generals. What's going on in the military at all, denying him access to classified information... [[Mr. Marshal...]] This kind of action... I'm not talking about the generals' purgatory. Back when the MON law came in, about a year ago, where there was a point that you could promote an officer... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...for a function of 2 degrees higher, twice higher, and even more was added there. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I knew what that would do. If we agree that we need to strengthen the army, that we need to build alliances and that we need to consolidate these alliances, then let us consolidate these alliances and not weaken them. Because it will have consequences for all of us. You're responsible for this, but everyone, including me, will suffer the consequences. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Rusiecki has 10 minutes, although you know the senator, we'd like to announce a recess to release everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u221	Mr. Marshal, I'll try to take this into account... [[Thank you very much.]] ...maximally shorten your speech. I will say right away that I will not follow the lead of what you presented to Marshal Borusewicz, who narrowed down the area of negotiation and the spirit of defense. I would like to thank Mr Klich and Mr Skorupski for this spirit of dialogue and a positive reference to the Minister's appeal that we should, taking into account our arguments, pay particular attention to what is a matter in defence policy. us connecting and superior, i.e. for the security of the Polish state and its citizens and for the construction of the strength of our army. I would like to thank and for this dialogue which took place in the committee and for the unanimous vote, and for the announcement which has come to pass here today, because the technical modernisation and development of the Polish Armed Forces is in the interest of the Polish state and its citizens, as well as What may not have quite sounded here? It is linked to the implementation of the Responsible Development Plan. It is also about building the defence industry on the Polish economy. I don't want to divide it into private or national. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning I was at a very interesting conference, which pointed out that, for example, Polish private companies dominate exports as far as the area of national defence is concerned. I thank you for this spirit of dialogue and I hope that the law which is the subject of our deliberations will find maximum support in the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u222	Thank you very much, Mr Senator, Mr President. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today after the session of the committee. We proceed with the review of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act amending the Act on Health Care... [[Voice from the room: Minister wanted to speak.]] Oh, the Minister's still here. I'm sorry. [[How about a break?]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: The break will be postponed. Yes?]] Yeah, minimally, because I think we'll consider this point in express mode. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to shorten my speech. [[You're welcome.]] First of all, I regret that there was one speech during our debate that... I particularly regret that the one who gave it did not participate in our debate, which was very substantive, and after it was delivered, he left immediately and is not here. Once again, there are things that can connect us to such great ditches that we often dig up. I am convinced that this debate was an excellent opportunity for discussion, and so was it. Everyone has the right to organize this common house differently. Mr. Marshal seems to have decided otherwise, but I would like to thank Senator Grubski for his words. I hope that we will have a really calm and substantive discussion. Whoever has to apologize to, I will leave it on the side, because this bucket of slop, which has been fired over the past months on Minister Macierewicz, about which I have no doubt that he wants Poland strong and safe... That would also require an apology. I hope that someday such a moment will come, but first these first steps must be taken. I hope that this debate was such a first step towards substantive, peaceful talks about the future of Poland. I'm not going to agree to say that the tenders to be made... that these fat treats are meant to be for Americans, French, Italians, Germans. That's how we buy their loyalty. Such loyalty is very weak, ladies and gentlemen. Either we're gonna be a partner for the French, Germans, Americans, or this alliance is gonna be worth as much as the bank transfer, and it's gonna last as long as the bank transfer takes. In my view, first of all, our economy, our safety, the safety of equipment maintenance, the security of the supply of this equipment and the well-being of our citizens, but also and there are tenders for which we are unable to exploit our own potential. The right partnership... And that's the most important word: partner. It's a good relationship for us with our allies. This is how we try to shape these actions. There were also questions from Minister Klich. I assure you from this speaker that there was no intention of this kind to revolutionize the working structure. Furthermore, the Platform has not tabled an amendment in this regard. That's how the bill was passed. Once again, I assure you, no intentions... No action has taken place in this regard. The second point is the issue of property expenditure. In this case, no amendment has been tabled either. I agree that maybe this solution could be at the level of e.g. 25%, but also the facts are important, because today 28% These are property expenses. And it is a task for the ruling party, for the opposition, to make sure that every national defence minister shapes these expenses, not that he lowers them and is just a little over 20%. This is a task that doesn't have to be written down in the bill, because it's the minimum that's written down, but the task and the political responsibility... I am convinced, seeing an ambitious programme of modernization of the Polish army in the coming years, that it will certainly be implemented. I ask all of you to check that these expenditures at this level are about every year. Thank you very much, because I think it's exhausting the answers to all the questions. I would also like to thank Senator Rusiecki for his conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases. The text of the Act is contained in print 593, and the report of the Commission In print No 593 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please!]] Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report by the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on a draft government law amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases. Sejm prints No 1807 and 1810, senate print No 593. At the outset, several historical data on the route of African swine fever virus from Africa to Poland. No African swine fever was found in the territory of the Republic of Poland until 2014. The disease was first described in 1921 in Kenya and only existed in Africa and Sardinia until 2007. In 2007, ASF virus spread from the original outbreak in Georgia to Eastern Europe. The virus was likely transferred as a result of the use of kitchen waste from a ship coming from Africa, which was brought to the port of Poti, Georgia, to feed pigs. The disease spread very quickly to Armenia, Azerbaijan and the Russian Federation. In August 2012, an outbreak of this disease was found in the south-eastern part of Ukraine. In June 2013, the Belarusian veterinary authorities confirmed the detection of ASFV in the village of Czapuń in the Grodno region, 170 km from the border with Poland, and in Vitebsk, in the north-eastern part of Belarus, 450 km from the border with Poland. In January 2014, two cases of ASFV in wild boar were found in Lithuania. The first case, as I said at the outset, ASFV on the territory of the Republic of Poland was confirmed on 17 February 2014. I'll move on to the bill. The basic objective of the Act is to provide financial resources for the implementation of the Bioinsurance Programme to prevent the spread of African swine fever in 2015 and 2018 introduced by the Regulation of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of 3 April 2015 on the introduction of the Bioinsurance Programme to prevent the spread of African swine fever for 2015 and 2018. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the Law of 20 February 2015 amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases, the maximum limits of expenditure from the State budget for the actions envisaged in the framework of the implementation of the bioinsurance programme, i.e. payment of compensation and compensation for the continued maintenance of pigs on the holding, have been indicated. Between 2017 and 2018, a total of PLN 7 million per year was provided for compensation and PLN 3 million was PLN 658 000 per year for compensation. Following the change in the epizootic situation in 2017, it is about the expansion of the African swine fever epidemic, and the planned amounts have been insufficient, which is why the Act increases them to 8 million and 21 million 520 000 per year, respectively. I would like to point out that the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development unanimously endorsed the law and recommended that the High House adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Amen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u226	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Yes? You're welcome. [[Oh, here we go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u227	I have a question about a case that is particularly interesting in this part of Poland. This is also my district where pig farming is the basis for the operation of farms. It is Wielkopolska, Kujawsko-Pomorskie. Farmers are concerned that if these outbreaks of disease move to the left side of the Vistula, it will be a serious threat to hundreds of farms, perhaps thousands of pig farms. Will these measures be sufficient to safeguard in the event of a widespread epidemic? I remember the discussions two years ago, the voices very critical of the ruling crew at the time because it was not possible to stop the spread of this disease. There were a dozen of these bonfires at the time. Now there's definitely more of them, this area has expanded. Will these measures really be enough to stop this disease? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u228	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Is that enough? Nobody knows that. That's what I'm gonna say. However, everything must be done to slow down the spread of the virus. In my private opinion, this can only be done with 3 things: through these very large resources for the implementation of the bioinsurance program; through the maximum wildfire, because it also determines... It is assumed that this compaction, I would say, on the left side of the Vistula in an eastern direction of up to 0.1 boar per 100 ha, and from right to 0.5... And the third thing about which we speak shyly, but which I support: building a fence on the east wall to prevent the migration of sick or infected boars to Poland. Is that enough? It will turn out in the time ahead of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u230	No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening... Oh, there's a call. Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u231	Mr. Marshal, unfortunately, that's a question I have to ask. Minister, as soon as there was a discussion on the programme related to the avoidance of ASF, our benches were offered a proposal to start housing areas before the wild boars, especially from Belarus, because there were problems with them. The question is, when we get to the situation that the amounts we write down are enough for a decent fence to solve the case... what happens to our wild boars... That's what we can handle. Worse for those coming from the east.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u232	Thank you very much. The government represents Ms Ewa Lech, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome, Minister. Maybe you're on the spot because I think it's one question... If you don't mind, sir. [[No, I don't.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Can you hear me?]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] You have to press the button.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u233	Oh, good. Mr. Senator, the issue of the fence actually lasts a few years and the opinions are further divided. It doesn't mean that I can't say that this fence will rise. At the moment, analyses are being carried out, and this analysis will be carried out by the end of September. Because it's not a decision. Only the Minister of Agriculture, also the Minister of Infrastructure is interested in this, Minister of Environment... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...minister of the Environment, Minister of the Interior, and Minister of Agriculture... It's not easy, because the border sometimes runs in the middle of the river, sometimes private plots come directly to it... And here not only is it a matter of costs and opportunities to build, but also of who is to do it... As far as the costs of this fence are concerned, the possible costs of this fence are currently not expected from the infectious disease eradication pool, there will probably be additional measures. But first there has to be a decision, and before the decision, an analysis of whether it makes sense at all and whether it is feasible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u234	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I agree with Senator Czerwinski here that there are various factual remarks in this room, and in fact no one is referring to them. I asked the Minister, the Minister was very protective that you were acting in accordance with the EU directive. And I said if the ASF is spreading, that means the directive is wrong. This is the first question: are we still acting in accordance with the EU directive, or have we changed it? That's the first question. And the second question that has also been asked in this room is, do we grow wild boars, or do we grow pigs? Because if we grow pigs, we kill all the boars, and it doesn't matter if it's 0.5 or 0.1... There are no boars in Poland, we try to... The fence may be, but we activate the hunters so there's no boars at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u236	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u237	Mr. Senator, that's what we're doing under EU law, that's right. There were also proposals, and I think it was your senator, if I remember correctly, to use some quick tests so that the ASF could diagnose quickly. I want to say this: how we diagnose, how we examine, how long we take samples, what monitoring looks like, everything is strictly regulated by EU law. And even if we wanted to use any rapid tests If they exist at all We cannot do that because the tests are official and if they are official, that means that their results are officially recognised as reliable. In order to be reliable, tests must be taken at a certain time, by specific staff, from a specific sample and method, etc. So here are the rigid ways of doing things. If we do not do so, this will not be applied to our country's regionalisation. And that's the strict answer to your first question. And the other one was about boars and pigs, which we grow. Well, we'd like to raise pigs, Mr. Senator, but a blowout, shooting off all the wild boars is simply impossible. Wild biology... Until recently, a few years ago, the boar had one litter a year, and at the moment the invitations take place even three times a year. If there were no gunshots or hunting, if they hadn't been conducted for three years, the wild boar population would have increased from 300,000 to 7 million. So we don't breed boars, we try to reduce this population, but liquidation is not possible. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u238	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held after the break. I'm ordering a recess until 4:15 p.m. Mr. Senator Secretary will read the press releases on committee meetings. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u239	Messages. Immediately after the adjournment in room 176 will be announced, a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions will be held on the amendment tabled at the 40th Senate meeting to the Act amending the law on bailiffs and executions. Second Communication: the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on the examination of the requests submitted to the State Enterprise Act on State Airports will be held today immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in Room 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u240	Thank you. Recess until 4:15, followed by a vote. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 44 to 16 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u241	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act establishing the Day of Fighting and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution requesting an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 590 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the Committee on Culture and Media. The amendment aims to clarify the law by indicating that Michniov's pacification took place on 12 November 1943. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] The amendment was accepted. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who is it? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act establishing the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: a law on specific arrangements for improving the quality and availability of healthcare services. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the time of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 599 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today, the Health Commission has examined the proposals made during the debate on the Law on Specific Solutions to Improve the Quality and Availability of Healthcare Services and recommends that the High Senate adopt the Law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u243	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Leszek Czarnobaj and Senator Tomasz Grodzki submitted legislative proposals during the discussion. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Health Committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who is it? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 47 were in favour, 29 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on Special Solutions for improving the quality and availability of health care services. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up at Lisbon on 11 March 1993. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate printing No 598 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up at Lisbon on 11 March 1993. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on State Enterprise A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the time of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject, which is in print No 585 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u244	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today's meeting of the Infrastructure Committee took place. We have examined the proposals submitted during the debate. The Infrastructure Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u245	Does Senator Piotr Florek still want to speak as Senator of the applicant? [[Thank you.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on Senator Piotr Flork's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Seventy-eight senators voted, 29 for, 48 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the rejection of the proposal to reject the Act, we are voting on the proposal of the Infrastructure Commission to adopt the Act without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 47 for, 29 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the State Enterprise of the State Airports. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the law on amending the law on bailiffs and executions. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 589 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Lydia Staron, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has gathered today and recommends that the 3 amendments which were previously tabled be adopted This is now the committee's amendment. On the other hand, it does not recommend adoption, asks that the amendment tabled by Senator Rulewski be rejected; the ratio of votes: 6 against, 1 for, yes? [[Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u247	Thank you very much, Senator. Would Senator Jan Rulewski like to speak again? [[Too bad about the voice.]] Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 aims to clarify that the time limit set by the bailiff to the debtor for the voluntary performance of the obligation may not be less than 14 days. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 50 for, 1 against, 27 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 1 was accepted. Amendment 2 introduces an additional premium mechanism for the debtor, which decides to make a voluntary contribution to the implementation title after the deadline set. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 47 for, 3 against, 26 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 deletes the provisions of the Act which result in a reduction of fixed fees in cases of the execution of non-monetary benefits and the abolition of the fee for the assistance of the police or officers of other uniformed services. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 32 for, 44 against. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 4 seeks to adopt a simpler clearing mechanism in the law for the payment of a fixed fee according to the existing rules where there is a basis for applying the provisions as amended. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 51 votes against, 1 against, 26 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 77 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on bailiffs and executions. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 584 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 75 in favour, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We are returning to the ninth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Local Workers Act. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration took place at the time of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 587 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At today's meeting, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration discussed the proposals for this law. The Commission supported the second proposal For adoption of the law without amendment. The adoption of such a proposal shall be recommended by the committee to the High Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u249	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice divide assistants and advisors into good ones and bad ones For those good ones who are employed in government administration, i.e. ministries, and for those bad ones who are employed in local governments. Of course, we can't agree with that, which is why I'm asking you to support the motion to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u251	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Waldemar Slugocki and Senator Jerzy Wcisła. [[Yes.]] Yes? [[Do you mind if I take a seat?]] There you go. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u252	I state that the Parliamentary Club of the Senate PiS has succumbed to a hurricane called: Kukiz.15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-22-senat-47-2.u253	Thank you very much, Senator. Anyone else from the senators? Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We are voting on a minority motion from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 47 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] In the face of the rejection of the bill, we are voting on Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 45 were in favour, 29 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Local Workers. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on amending the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Law on Public Procurement. The National Defence Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 586 A. A minority of committees also asks for an amendment. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. The proposal by a minority of committees aims to remove a provision setting a limit on the number of posts for professional soldiers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 46 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] The motion of the minority committee was rejected. The amendment tabled by the committee is intended to... Now I'm reading the next amendment. The amendment tabled by the committee aims to increase the number of posts for professional soldiers to 150 000. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 54 for, 3 against, 21 abstentions. [[Voting No 18]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 74 for and four senators abstained. [[Voting No 19]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Law on Public Procurement. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: a law amending the Law amending the Law on the protection of animal health and the fight against infectious animal diseases. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 593 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 76 for and two senators abstained. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Law amending the Law on the protection of animal health and the fight against infectious animal diseases. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a break until 26 September of this year, i.e. I'll see you Tuesday. The meeting will be resumed at 11 a.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 16 minutes 32]]
