ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Marcin Duszek, Daniel Milewski, Łukasz Schreiber and Sylvester Tulayev. The first part of the session will be Mr Łukasz Schreiber and Mr Sylvester Tulaev. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 12, - Foreign Affairs - hour 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12.30, - Education together with the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad - h. 14, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 15, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 4:30. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Team of the Polish Red Cross - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Carpathian Team - hour. 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u3	Thank you very much. I inform you that the President of the Council of Ministers has notified the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the agreement of the Act, amendments to Annex I to the Convention on the Transboundary Effects of Industrial Accidents, drawn up in Helsinki on 17 March 1992. Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting acceptance of this notification from the Prime Minister without reservation. The committee's report is in print 2125. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. The Sejm Bureau submitted proposals: - on changes in the personal compositions of Parliamentary committees, - on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. These are 2130 and 2124 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Social Cooperatives Act and certain other laws, - amending the Social Security Act and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 2117 and 2118 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the relevant opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda to hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. A group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Law amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims. This is print number 2131. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The formal request was made by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I ask your marshal to take a break. Yesterday, our club was denied the opportunity to ask questions on current issues today. We clearly see this as an attempt to reduce the rights of parliamentary minorities. The Sejm supervises, among others. over institutions such as the National Radio and Television Council. It is the Sejm who chooses its members, and the Sejm accepts its reports. On this basis, I ask the Marshal to call on Mr Witold Kołodziejski, President of the National Radio and Television Council, to explain to the House how a scandalous punishment has been imposed on the commercial and free TVN station, which is probably one of the highest in history, i.e. PLN 1.5 million. The penalty was imposed for the account of the events before the Sejm and on its territory on 16 and 18 December last year. It is unacceptable that such a biased and untrue opinion was prepared by a person associated with a competitive television station. It is also unacceptable that the National Radio and Television Council imposes a penalty for material that meets all the requirements of reliable public access to information. Independent media is the basis of a democratic system. Let us remind you that the protest in the Sejm began with the support of opposition Members of journalists claiming free and independent media. Democracy is a system that the alien is now in power. Such actions were clearly perceived by the international press agencies and the U.S. State Department as an attempt on free and independent media by the PiS. If for such a relationship dominated by PiS nominates National Council [[♪ The bell ♪]] Radiophony and Television can impose penalties, I suggest that for Bolshevik propaganda and lies in the so-called. public television...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u5	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u6	...take the license. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u7	Thank you, sir. Firstly, I will put this proposal to the vote right now, but I must clarify the matter which is as follows. Well, the club you are a member of has submitted a draft question on current issues that you described, but for formal reasons the Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Sejm's lawyers, found the addressee inappropriate because the question was submitted to the Minister of Culture. The Minister of Culture does not care, does not perform supervisory and other functions vis-à-vis the National Radio and Television Council. It is an institution constitutionally empowered, in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I have therefore proposed to the Sejm Bureau... There will be no corrections here, sir, so that you sit down. [[But that's not entirely true, Mr. Marshal.]] I have therefore proposed to the Sejm Bureau that... [[Voice from the room: Voting on TVN.]] ...with the alleged understanding of the Sejm's powers to adopt annual reports on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council and the selection of some of its members, because such Sejm has powers, and so we acknowledged, the cultural committee took care of it. The day before yesterday, I submitted a letter to the chairman of the Committee on Culture to invite the President and the representatives of the National Council, as well as the Member who formulated and asked the question on behalf of the club, and to discuss the matter at the committee meeting. So much for information. So that I ask you to accept it as an attempt to meet you, to help the Member find a solution and to ask the question directly to the addressee. But a formal motion has been made, and we will therefore vote on it. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 165 voted against - 257, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2100-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Public Finance Commission on print No 2100-A on the government draft law amending the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities and some other laws. Two amendments were tabled yesterday during the second reading, which received a positive opinion from the finance committee. I therefore request that this bill be passed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u9	Thank you. We will vote first on the amendments that you have mentioned in the additional committee report. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 366 Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. There were 273 votes against - 154, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2100, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities and certain other laws. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services. We proceed to the third reading. The additional report shall be in print No 2099-A. I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! Dear Council of Ministers! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services. A single amendment was tabled yesterday at the second reading to extend the time of entry into force of the Act until 1 July 2018. The Committee on Public Finances because the Act has a minimal impact on the Polish economy and on budgetary revenues, while the penalties threatening Poland for delaying the entry into force of the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union are very significant, asks and asks for the rejection of this amendment and the adoption of a draft law without this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u11	Thank you, sir. The amendment referred to in the additional report will be voted first. In this only amendment to the article. I would like to remind you that the law will enter into force on 1 July 2018. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why do you not want to agree to postpone the date of implementation of this law to 1 July 2018? It would then be possible for entrepreneurs to adapt to the new conditions, because the increase in excise duty and additional tax for these entrepreneurs is a change in the business rules. This is the first law already passed under the rule of Prime Minister Morawiecki, which, as it turns out, is contrary to his declarations, because it is a law which raises taxes and introduces additional taxes for Poles. Congratulations, I hope the next one's a little better. [[Voice from the room: Wrong bill.]] Modern is against any increase in taxes. It is one law in a row that additionally burdens Poles. Regardless of the increase in the cost of living, the rise in prices, inflation, you are now introducing an additional tax. Is there no money left in the register for your election promises? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're wrong!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u13	Thank you, sir. Of course, this project was submitted to the Sejm a long time ago, before the change of government, but today we are voting on the amendment. Nobody wants to speak right now, right? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 193 against - 231. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The question to the whole draft law is asked by Krzysztof Truskolaska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Unfortunately, you are not here, but the day before yesterday you spoke so beautifully about the fact that you want to lower taxes that you want to relieve Poles. Unfortunately, once again, you are raising these taxes and this is the second law to raise taxes within these two days. The first one concerned excise duties on tobacco products, which you charged to small and medium-sized enterprises, and now you are raising VAT. Prime Minister, why are you raising your taxes again? The modern one has often said that taxes need to be reduced. We will definitely be against all the laws that raise taxes on our citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u15	One more question. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a fact that this tax increase is small, but it is an increase in tax, and even it is an increase in tax with a slight ideological accent, which may be less worrying to us. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the implementation of the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union is not always the same in the various countries of the European Union. I would like to point out that, as regards the reduced VAT in France for electronic books, France does not apply this decision. She reduced VAT on electronic books because she thinks education is more important than decisions of such bureaucrats or other bureaucrats. Why don't we have the courage? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[This isn't worth it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u17	Thank you, sir. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Paweł Gruza, will speak on this matter. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u18	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is a technical amendment, it has negligible budgetary implications. The financial dimension of this law is irrelevant. Yesterday I had the pleasure of being in Brussels. All countries are discussing modifications to the VAT Directive on this corset, which limits our right to apply reduced rates. This process is delicate, it's going on. The Commission will present its new proposals at the beginning of next year. These possibilities are going to be bigger. At this point, it is important to technically adapt our legislation to the requirements of the Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u19	We have an explanation. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill in its entirety in print no. 2056 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 249 voted against - 65, with 113 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the tax on goods and services. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act on Environmental Inspection and the Act on Environmental Protection. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2094. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2094 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Act on Environmental Inspection and the Act on Environmental Protection. We would like to return to the discussion of item 8 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the centenary of the Polish avant-garde. We'll proceed with the vote. The Commission calls for a resolution as set out in the report in print No 2077. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies... [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to...]] Member of the House? I'm sorry, but I started reading. If there was a question to the Member of the applicant, then I would have given you the floor. [[I'd like to read that resolution.]] [[Voice from the room: Next time.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 2077 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 420, against 1 Member, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on celebrating the Polish avant-garde on the 100th anniversary of its inauguration. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the National Department to them. Ossolinski. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 2076. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 2076 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 419 against - 3. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the National Plant. Ossolinski on the 200th anniversary of the establishment. We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the electoral code law. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for consideration of draft electoral laws for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 1611 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 242 against 185. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the initiative of setting up the Foundation for them. Wenceslas Felczak. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 2123. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print 2123 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 423 against - 2, no one abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the initiative of setting up the Foundation. Wenceslas Felczak. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 2130). High Seym! Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2130 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 413 against - 1 with 8 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs (Print No 2124). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you like to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2124 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 420, 1 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. I'm ordering an adjournment until noon. 12.30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 35 hrs. 12 min 33]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm reopening the session. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Insurance Distribution Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[How much, Marshal? How many minutes?]] Three-minute statements. And the second message. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question will be asked by Members of the Law and Justice. He begins with this main question, Mr Marek Polak. This question will concern the matter of taking care of the family of police officers injured during the action in Vishni Mała at night from 2 to 3 December 2017. The question is addressed to the Minister of Interior and Administration, and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior and Administration Jarosław Zieliński will answer. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u20	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Less than two weeks ago, we were all moved by information about the tragic impact of the intervention of the anti-terrorist unit in Vishnia Mała near Wrocław, in which one of police officers was killed as a result of a firefight with criminals robbing the ATM, and three others were wounded. I would like to ask: Did the relevant authorities take proper care and assistance from the family of the fallen police officer, as well as the other injured officers and their loved ones? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u21	You're welcome, Minister. Oh, in this part, Mrs Ewa Filipiak will ask, and then Mr Zbigniew Biernat will ask. Minister, just a moment. Now, ladies and gentlemen, and then there will be an answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The death of an anti-terrorist police officer makes us aware that criminal environments are increasingly ruthless and use more and more modern weapons. An additional factor in increasing security threats is the increasing terrorism in Western Europe and the illicit trafficking of weapons. Minister, in this connection I would like to ask: What steps are the Polish Police planning to take to ensure that the procedures for the use of firearms by officers better protect their health and life and that every policeman is equipped with state-of-the-art firearms and personal protective equipment?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u23	Minister! In my opinion, an accident survivor's pension is the equivalent of a deceased's pension. However, it is set at a very low level because it represents 120% the lowest pension. Other claims, e.g. compensation, compensation, pensions can only be claimed in legal proceedings, civil proceedings, sometimes criminal proceedings, directly from the perpetrator. In this case, the unsub happened to be dead. Is the Ministry planning to amend the rules on officials, especially on social security for accidents at work and occupational diseases? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u24	May I, Your Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u25	You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Members, We all know that police service isn't easy. Sometimes it's very dangerous. And this was confirmed by this action carried out by police officers of the criminal pawn and special anti-terrorist division in Vishnia Mała at night from December 2rd to December 3rd of the year in which one policeman was killed and three were injured. He was killed, and a bandit, a criminal, was shot as well. The family of the fallen horseshoes. Mariusz Koziarski, because this is what you ask mostly, although not only, she has received all the help and care, just like the wounded policemen. This assistance and care are the result of the law, but also from the awareness that in such tragic situations the state should take care of the fallen officer's family and come to the aid of those who suffer injury. The wife and two children of the said policeman, who was buried with honor on the last Saturday - participated in this funeral, including, of course, outside the family, loved ones, officers who served with him, superiors, Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, Chief Police Officer Mr. Jarosław Szymczyk and many other officers were also provided with care and support, apart from psychological care, financial support. I will list the types of action that have been taken, but if you do not ask me to do so, I would not exchange quotas because of the delicate nature of the matter. Of course, these amounts are in accordance with regulations, regulations, and they are, I would say, quite significant, but... Always too small, of course. Decisions in such cases are always made with the awareness that it is just some small financial - despite all, therefore, misfortune - compensation, because life, or the most important value, no one will return anything and will not return. In such cases, we usually give titles without quotas, but if you would like, of course I can give them. I'd rather not. So the financial support is to grant the social benefit fund to the chief of the Wrocław Police, this is the first type of financial support. The second is financial aid from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. It's already been granted. The third type of support is a special pension granted already on 5 December 2017, very quickly, by the President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło at the request of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration pursuant to Article. Article 82 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. Another point is that the cost of a police officer's funeral, whose death was caused by an accident in connection with the service, and this is the case here, will be covered by the Police Headquarters. The wife will be paid half the funeral allowance and post-mortem check. This follows from the provisions of the Article. 119 law that regulates these issues quite in detail. I do not want to quote these provisions because it will take too long, and I want to say a few more things. The documentation necessary to grant a survivor's pension to entitled family members is also currently being completed. In addition, in accordance with Article. 116a of the Police Act to each dependent child of a fallen police officer who, on the day of his death, fulfilled the conditions for a survivor's pension, the chief officer of the Police is granting financial aid for training with the funds allocated for that purpose. This assistance shall be granted to pupils of secondary education and to students of higher education until they have completed their 25th year of age. The wife and children of the fallen deputy chief sleep. Mariusz Koziarski will also be the wards of the Widows and Orphans Foundation after the Fallen Policemen. On December 14, i.e. today, at 3 p.m. From 13 to 15, so now, in a moment it will begin, as part of the help of the Polish Radio policeman's family, the Polish public radio, together with the Widows and Orphans Foundation, organizes auction of items offered by employees and journalists. Involved in charity - because the sums collected will be used to support the fallen policeman's family - are all public service broadcasting programs. I thank the Widows and Orphans Foundation for the Fallen Policemen from this place and thank the journalists, thank the authorities of these radio stations that are taking part in this. In addition, the Management Board of the NSZZ Voivodeship Police Officers of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship organized and runs a fund-raiser for the family of the fallen police officer. As you can see, in addition to these statutory benefits, social action is also being taken, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They support the family. If your marshal will allow it, a few more words about the wounded. Maybe in the second part, because there I can, Minister, extend the speaking time. We will ask two additional questions and then we will be able to answer it fully. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: About Helping the Wounded...]] We'll ask you two questions in a second. Stay on the floor, and your fellow Members will have two remaining questions. This will be Mr Marek Polak - the first part, Mr Jarosław Szlachetka - the second part.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u26	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! As many as 114 policemen have died in Poland since 1990. Please tell me whether the families of previously deceased officers can count on permanent support from the State and, if so, on what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u27	More radical, more brutal, more ruthless, more common criminals. They pose a threat to both ordinary citizens and police officers. Minister, how will the costs incurred for the modernisation of uniformed services, including police, affect development, readiness and equipment for the operation of police officers, especially independent units of anti-terrorist police, in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u28	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, High Seym! Maybe one more word first, as I said, about helping wounded policemen, three wounded police officers. Two wounded police officers from the Independent Anti-Terrorist Unit in Wroclaw have received comprehensive medical and psychological care. They were also granted assistance from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and from the resources available to the Provincial Police Commissioner in Wrocław. At the request of the Provincial Police Commissioner in Wroclaw, they were also granted a significant amount of assistance by the Chief of Police. The third wounded police officer, from the Poznań Voivodeship Police Command, was granted assistance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and from the resources available to the Provincial Police Commissioner in Poznań. Also at the request of the Provincial Police Commissioner in Poznań, he was provided with the assistance of the Chief Police Commissioner. The wounded police officers may also apply for reimbursement of additional documented medical costs from the funds of the PZU support fund available to both the Chief of Police and the Provincial Police Commandants in Wrocław and Poznań, in accordance with the territorial competence of the service. In addition, after the accident procedure has been completed, the spouse of the deceased deputy commissioner Mariusz Koziarski and other officers will receive compensation. So much for benefits. As you can see, and this is the answer to one of the questions, some of these benefits are permanent, such as family benefits, and others, or benefits, are one-off, but together they form an important system of financial support and assistance for the families of the fallen policeman or those injured in the service. As far as equipment is concerned, I would like to say that right now, immediately, this equipment that police officers need, which was either destroyed during this operation, or occupied for the prosecution's investigation, has been completed by purchasing from the police and handing over the equipment, even more modern than the one they used, so that the full ability to act through these decisions is again achieved. With regard to modernisation, the programme for modernising uniform services, of course in a very important way in various fields, in various police departments it strengthens and strengthens the potential of both criminal services, preventative services, as well as anti-terrorist divisions and the entire Bureau of Anti-Terrorist Operations. We place a great deal of emphasis on this, because the fact is that criminals, especially those most highly organized, often possessing and using explosives, and large money, often from illegal sources, most often from illegal sources, are very dangerous [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you just have to equip the police with such equipment that is effective and ahead of action is more modern, more functional than what criminals have, but you also need to develop good laws, rules of conduct. At this point, I will answer immediately, because the question has been raised, that at this stage there is no work to be done in relation to the revision of the legislation on the use of weapons, because they are assessed as sufficient. The police operate under the law and within the limits of the law, but are not afraid to use means of direct coercion when necessary, including firearms, of course in justified situations. That's what happened in this case, that criminal was killed. Finally, the chief of police has set up a team working on assessing this action, all its aspects, and we are waiting for conclusions. This team was set up at a very high level, because it consists of very experienced officers performing high functions in the Police, e.g. Directors of several offices of the headquarters, including Director of the Bureau of Anti-Terrorist Operations, led by Deputy Chief Chief General Superintendent General. Jan Lach. We're waiting for a study. We're waiting for a report. I think that the proposals for the future, in addition to the mere assessment of the course of this action, are mainly about the proposals for the future, will be included in this report, and I am convinced that they will serve the police, which will result in an even greater improvement, improvement of its actions in such situations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u30	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the second question. The question is about the Polish-Russian Cross-border Cooperation Programme 2014-2020 and is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, and will be answered by the President of the Council of Ministers, undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Adam Hamryszczak. The question will be asked by Mr Piotr Cieślinski, the Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u31	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, On 8 December 2016, the European Commission accepted the Polish-Russia 2014-2020 Cross-border Cooperation Programme. On the Polish side, the following subregions are covered: Elbląski, Olsztyński, łcki, suwalski, Gdański, Tricity and Oldgarde, and on the Russian side, Kaliningrad region. The programme's budget is over EUR 62 million, of which EUR 42 million comes from the European Union and EUR 20 million is a financial contribution from the Russian Federation. For the Warmia-Mazury region it is unique - I stress: a unique - opportunity to solve many problems in the social and economic area. Our local governments, associations and other non-profit organisations have been involved in the programme, preparing appropriate projects, including technical documentation, with significant funding for this purpose. If the Polish-Russia 2014-2020 cross-border cooperation programme does not come into force, we will lose a unique opportunity for additional development. In addition, our beneficiaries will suffer tangible losses from the financial resources involved so far. In accordance with EU legislation, the Polish Government has one year to approve this programme, and I therefore ask the Minister the following questions: At what stage are the work related to the approval by the Government of the Republic of Poland of Poland - the programme of cross-border cooperation Poland-Russia 2014-2020? What is the result of so great delays in the acceptance of this programme when similar programmes on the border between Belarus and Ukraine have already been approved? And basic question: When will the government approve the Polish-Russia programme and whether at all? Minister, to me, the unimaginable thing is, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that we have 250 million zlotys to spend, and the government does not approve this program. The Small Border Traffic Agreement has been suspended. The Russians, instead of buying in border areas in Poland, forced to make visas, shop in the Schengen area, i.e. outside Poland, so we are already losing it. Self-governments, Minister, are waiting for these measures because they have incurred appropriate costs and demand reimbursement of investment costs, as well as so that residents can benefit from what could be born of this 250 million. These are the inhabitants of Elbląg, these are the inhabitants of Bartoszyc, where the bridge is to be built, these are small homelands, which also have planned investments of strategic importance for them. The unimaginable thing, I stress, is that we should lose this program. That's why I'm asking when. And if this program isn't approved at all, who's gonna take responsibility for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u32	Thank you very much. Mr President, I understand that you have also exhausted the second question. Minister Adam Hamryszczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u33	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Government! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The work related to the approval by the Government of the Republic of Poland of a cross-border cooperation programme Poland-Russia 2014-2020 is currently at the level of the Council of Ministers. To answer the second question, I would like to stress that in the case of the Polish-Russia programme we cannot talk about a direct analogy to the Polish-Belarus-Ukraine programme, because, above all, there is a different area of support here, another is also the budget of individual programmes, and what, I think, is extremely important, in the Polish-Belarus-Ukraine programme Poland is not a party to the financial agreement, because the European Commission has concluded separate financial agreements with both Belarus and Ukraine. On the other hand, in the case of the Polish-Russia programme, due to the fact that the Russian party, the Russian Federation is making a monetary contribution of around EUR 20 million in order to start the implementation of this programme, it is necessary to conclude an appropriate agreement between Poland, the Russian Federation and the European Commission. Before such a decision is taken by the Polish government, it is necessary to examine all socio-economic conditions and, I think, very important issues relating to state security and public order, as well as to examine the nature of individual projects. As regards the time limits for the approval of the programme, I would like to stress that the work of the Council of Ministers is still ongoing. It is also worth mentioning here the rules, the EU regulations that the financing agreement must be concluded by 31 December if this programme is to be implemented. Thank you very much. [[Marshal, I'm so sorry. I didn't realize it was like...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u34	You heard the clock perfectly. You've exceeded your time by almost a minute and 20 seconds. Mr... [[Yes, but can we have a quick question, Marshal?]] Since the Minister has not used all of his time, please, but next time, Mr. President, I will not give the floor... [[Of course.]] ...because you've exceeded your time by over a minute. I therefore assumed that you were asking two questions, which is why I didn't interrupt you. [[It's an important subject, Marshal. That's why I'm running so fast. Thank you very much.]] Please, Madame, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u35	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm just gonna ask you a little more. I will return to the Prime Minister's exposé, who spoke about development, about equalising opportunities. I hope this is the time to fix these past neglects. The Prime Minister spoke of a new opening, which is why I believe that Warmia and Mazury expect, too, to expect EUR 62 million from the programme. The most important thing for us is that local governments are prepared and the inhabitants have huge needs: cultural objects, sewers, various events. You don't have to fight for this money, you don't have to do anything but one thing: except what unfortunately hasn't been done in a year, but your department, the Ministry of Development has spoken [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm positive about this program. That's why for two weeks... This is only one signature from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u36	You're welcome, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u37	You're welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u38	...to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u39	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen! As I said earlier, the work of the Council of Ministers is still ongoing and the financing agreement must be signed by 31 December this year. Thank you. [[So it's gonna be?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is about the state of preparation for changes in the accounts of payers' contributions related to the entry into force of the e-Company rules, and is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Marcin Zielenecki, will answer. And the question will be asked by Barbara Bartus of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u41	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From 1 January, an amendment to the Social Security Act enters into force, a law which introduces the so-called. An e-Compartment. Thanks to this, there will be large changes, large facilitations for contributors. The contributions will no longer be made by several transfers, it will be easier not to make a mistake, because so far it was possible to mistake the fund, one number could be confused and these payments sometimes wandered somewhere else, but it will also be cheaper, because it will be one deposit, not three, four payments, so far it has been. However, in connection with the entry of this e-spot, this new account I wanted to ask the Minister how the Social Insurance Institution is prepared to carry out this operation. First of all, today's premium payers have to collect new numbers for which they will pay these contributions. What's the situation? How many people does the Social Security Department have to handle? Do all contributors receive letters from the Social Insurance Institution - I know that in practice it can be different - and doesn't the Social Insurance Institution have any problems with that? The same: How is the Social Insurance Institution prepared for new accounting rules? These new rules will be completely different. Today - it works until the end of December - everyone can define which fund he pays for, for which month he pays. And as of 1 January, there will be one deposit that will be settled on the oldest debt and on the individual funds. I wanted to ask the Minister: How is the Social Insurance Institution prepared and how are the contributors receiving this amendment, how are the contributors themselves prepared for the entry into force of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u42	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u43	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! High Izbo! The amendments to the Social Insurance Act adopted by the Sejm in May 2017 are the basis for the implementation from 1 January 2018. The legislative process was completed in September this year. the adoption by the Council of Ministers of the last of the implementing regulations concerning the rules and procedures governing the clearance of contributions to which the Social Insurance Institution is obliged to collect. Changes in the rules required the preparation of the ZUS IT system for payment handling after 1 January 2018 so that the payers could regulate premiums for all insurance and funds with one payment made on an ordinary payment document. It can be said that this is a very serious qualitative change in terms of the level of services provided to insured persons or the services provided to contributors. This is a new standard, which can be said to be a standard in other segments of financial services. Changes have been prepared in the system responsible for accounting and settlement of contributions to the accounts of the payers. The tests of the new software run smoothly and are completed. The software will be implemented by the end of this year. Part of the software related to communication with the National Bank of Poland has already been implemented and it can be said that it works without interference. The implementation phase of the changes was completed by creating individual premium account numbers for more than 7 million contributions accounts - I mean active and inactive payers' accounts - and by sending notifications about the given numbers. A total of over 3,300 thousand were allocated. shipments, of which 2,400 thousand. consignments to active payers and the others to payers who have already ceased their activities, but their accounts still have debt on contributions. The correspondence was not made by around 10% active payers. These people, you can say, are supported, among others. at the Social Insurance Institution's facilities for the effective delivery of a letter informing the account number of the payer of the contributions. Information is being sent to new contributors registered from September to November this year. A significant change to the current rules is the clearing of payments first to cover the oldest outstanding arrears, which will help to improve payment discipline among contributors. However, in order to avoid problems related to the lack of coverage of the contributions due, which determine the right to remain in the insurance and the right to benefits, the Social Security Office carries out a wide information campaign, trying to reach all groups of contributors. This information campaign consists of individual information addressed by the Social Insurance Institution to over 130 thousand. enterprises benefiting from voluntary sickness insurance in whose accounts there was debt, the possibility of benefiting from arrears relief. The instalment arrangement allows the debt to be repaid on favourable terms, and its timely implementation, together with the payment of current contributions, guarantees that it will continue to remain in voluntary sickness insurance. Central and local media are used in the information campaign, as well as the websites of the Social Insurance Institution and ministries. Cooperation has been established with local authorities, registration authorities, organisations and associations of entrepreneurs and professional corporations. They are conducted for all interested trainings at the Social Insurance Institution. They are also organised for accounting offices and tax advisors serving entrepreneurs. The first electronic training was provided. In cooperation with banks and Polish Post, rules were established for the handling of payments at the turn of 2017 and 2018 and after 1 January 2018. The information systems of banks were used to provide information on changes in the rules of payment of contributions. The banks, together with the National Settlement Chamber, have already carried out tests on a new form of payment of contributions. The tests have been successfully completed. The Social Security Office also reviews the accounts of contributors. All accounts of active payers have been verified, the completeness of the documents necessary for the correct settlement of payments is checked. Particular attention shall be paid to the arrears with the period of validity of the period of validity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the purpose of assessing their maturity. The payment systems and the ongoing abolition proceedings shall be verified. In conclusion, I can say that the action of implementing the e-Company programme is going smoothly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u44	Please, Madame, an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for this comprehensive information, because this really is a very big challenge, also for the Social Insurance Institution, but we are moving towards modernity. I'm sure this revision of the bill is a big achievement. But I wanted to ask you about these voluntary sickness insurances, also in the context of what you said. I wanted to ask if even with these changes, the ministry is planning to change. Because as of today - this mainly concerns voluntary sickness insurance, and this mainly applies to business people - it is a notification, a timely payment and a failure to meet the deadline. Doesn't the Ministry intend to make changes e.g. a return to what was before 1999 so that only a certain arrears would exclude social security benefits from payment, sickness benefits, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that a one-day delay or some minor error doesn't require this whole procedure to restore the payment of the contribution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u46	You're welcome, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u47	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! High Izbo! I can say this: we see the shortcomings of this regulation, which is currently in force. I think you can see these shortcomings in the situation where we're dealing with... I may refer to a provision which governs the rules for voluntary insurance by persons paying contributions for themselves. Let me remind you that according to the article. 14 Act on the social security system ceases voluntary social insurance in case of non-payment within the period of payment of the contribution by the payer. It shall cease on the first day of the month for which the social security contribution has not been paid within the time limit. None of the provisions of the Social Insurance Act does not preclude the possibility of voluntary insurance from the next month, so the arrangements that we have in the Act at the moment do not act as an encouraging, disciplinary role in terms of timely and correct payment of social security contributions. I do not want to declare changes in this area, but I can say that we are looking very closely at this regulation, we are looking for solutions that would be better from the point of view of the social security system and the contributors. It seems to me that the introduction of this very modern solution, which is so-called. The e-Compliment, as well as the action itself to clear the accounts of the contributors accompanying the implementation of this programme, is a very good opportunity to actually look at the legal arrangements in this regard. And if we come to the conclusion that the legal situation would require some adjustment, then we will propose appropriate solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members of the Civic Platform will ask questions about the number of people protected by the Government Protection Office. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will answer Mr Jarosław Zieliński. The first question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In April, with a group of fellow Members, we asked you how many people, how many members of the government are protected by the Government Protection Office and by what number of officers. You've covered yourself with a state secret, and this is a scandal. We have the right, Poles have the right, Members have the right to ask, and you have the duty to answer: How many government officers are protected by the BOR? All we know is that Mr. Błaszczak - this is a famous picture, eight cars - your boss drives eight cars, and his children are being driven to school by BOR officers. You don't wear an umbrella yourself, your umbrella must be worn by a bodyguard. Anyway, it's contagious because Mrs. Kempy is contagious, too. Never was the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Home Affairs protected by BOR officers. Mrs. Kempa, the head of the firm, has never been protected by BOR. There was no such protection in previous governments. Mr. Kuchciński walks around the Sejm with four marshal guards and two BOR officers. Mr Macierewicz - the pedestrian passage must protect him. And here's the thing: there's six people walking around. Six people are walking around, sir. In Eva Kopacz's government, Donald Tusk's government was protected... Prime Minister Siemoniak rode with one government security officer - with one deputy prime minister, Piechociński too. No minister except the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Home Affairs and the Minister of National Defence ever rode with the protection of the BOR. You all drive: Mrs Kempa, Mrs Witek, whose role in the government is to be a colleague of Prime Minister Szydło, every other minister, Mrs Zalewska, Minister of National Education. I don't know if she's protected from children or from teachers. It's just a scandal. It means that the law and justice of every other minister protects the BOR. It's not enough that he's protecting them with the BOR, but they're still in double triples. I mean, the number of roosters... Just see what's going on under the Seym. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, we demand information on how many ministers, the Secretarys of State, the Undersecretaries of State are protected by government security officers. And don't cover yourself up with a state secret, because it's your secret, not your state secret. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u50	And I'll ask the Minister to answer. [[People are watching, shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is indeed a pity that in this case I cannot say what I would like to say and what I know, because then you would have done well, Mr President. Because if you don't have any knowledge, and you're causing a very unfavorable subject, if we could compare that to your governments... [[Please, you have the right to compare.]] Of course you wouldn't ask those questions. You wouldn't ask them either if you'd bothered to read the rules. But of course you don't bother... [[Could you answer the question, not ad personam?]] ...you're waving some cards. You can wave, but you don't have any legal knowledge, which is why you do what you hear and see. [[And that is, Your Marshal, the answer.]] The fact that your hatred of law and justice sends you a culture... I don't know if you ever had one, I don't know, I don't think so. But you're out of your mind, I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u52	Minister, please pay attention to the answers, not to the commentary on the Member. I'm asking you to. [[What's he talking about?]] [[There was a specific question for you.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Now I am going to answer questions that have been asked more in writing than by your Member, because now he's just waving cards. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, according to the article. 2 (2) 1 points 1, 3 and 4 of the Act of 16 March 2001 on the Office for Government Protection are mandatory protection, I will remind you, the President of the Republic of Poland, the Marshal of the Sejm, the Speaker of the Senate, the President of the Council of Ministers, the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs and the former Presidents of the Republic of Poland, as well as persons who are part of a delegation of foreign countries residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland. In addition, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall have the power to protect the Office of Government Protection, subject to the provisions on the protection of classified information - which the Member does not notice - other persons on the basis of the condition: for the benefit of the State, in accordance with Article. 2 (2) Point 1 (2) and paragraph 1. 2th Government Protection Office Act. The activities carried out by the BOR against all persons protected shall be subject to the rigor of the Act of 5 August 2010 on the protection of classified information as set out in Article. 2 (2) 3 of the BOR Act by indicating that the Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall decide on the scope of protection measures for individuals or protected facilities in accordance with the provisions on the protection of classified information. Therefore, any information relating to the form and scope of the protection being implemented is of a private nature. At the same time, for persons protected for the benefit of the State, not only the scope of the protection being exercised constitutes classified information, but also, in accordance with the requirements laid down in the Government Protection Office Act, the mere fact that the person concerned is protected. This is clear from the article. 2 (2) 2 indicating that the decision of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to protect the persons referred to in paragraph 1. Point 1 (2) is another person, for the sake of the good of the State, subject to the provisions on the protection of classified information. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the questions raised earlier by your Members, I can inform you that now the protection of the BOR arising directly from the law is covered by six members of the Council of Ministers. This is the first segment of protected persons. It's not a secret because it's listed in the bill. Given the legal aspects of the conditions for access to classified information, which are undoubtedly the substantive scope of the Members' questions, I would like to stress that they cannot be the subject of today's debate or information in an open session of the Sejm. The possibility of making this information available in the parliamentary query procedure may only be made available on the basis of the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Secret Information, using the procedure laid down in Article. 9 Act of 21 June 1996 on certain powers of staff of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister. One of the conditions for initiating this procedure is to provide the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration with the appropriate justification and to indicate the purpose and extent of the use of classified information requested. If this were the case, only then could the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration decide to make them available. This procedure is based on respect for the principle of limited access under Article. 4 Act on the protection of classified information. It's not like having access to certain clauses, anyone can get everything. The provisions of this law govern it so. According to Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The Act on the Protection of Confidential Information may be made available only to the person giving the warranty of secrecy and to the extent necessary for the performance of his or her duties or for the performance of his or her duties. [[There is also a bill on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator.]] I am aware of that, and just put together the requirement of the Act on the protection of classified information with what you are talking about, Mr President, because I am aware that this is how you will put it together. Me too. [[I'm here to comment on this.]] In addition, in accordance with Article. 8 The Act on the protection of classified information to which a particular classification has been granted, and this is the nature of the individual decisions of the Minister responsible for internal affairs to protect individuals and to determine the scope of that protection, may only be made available to the holder, in accordance with the provisions of the Act on access to a particular classification, under conditions preventing their unauthorised disclosure, in accordance with the provisions setting out the requirements for secret law firms, the security of electronic systems, the circulation of material and physical security measures appropriate to the classification, and must be protected in accordance with the classification clause given, [[♪ The bell ♪]] applying the security measures set out in the Act and its implementing rules. I'm finishing this part, Marshal. I hope there's something I can say later. Let me just say that the possible abolition of the classification - because it is possible, this is provided for in the legislation - is only possible after the person who issued the classification is given written consent, i.e. the person empowered to sign the document in question, in this case, of course, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, or otherwise: the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. [[That's you.]] However, the condition necessary to abolish this clause is in accordance with Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Act on the protection of classified information will cease or change the statutory grounds for protection. The cessation or amendment of statutory protection conditions, which we are absolutely not dealing with in the case of decisions on the protection of persons by the BOR. Let me add further, Members, that if we compare the periods of your governments in any arrangement, e.g. the period from the beginning of taking over power to a comparable time, i.e., to, say, 14 December of a given year, at the beginning of a term of office, or about 2 years... If we compare the whole period - our whole period is not yet - or if we compare e.g. categories such as the protection of a person granted in a mode over six months, are in any category, in any case it will be against you, definitely against you. [[Let me see that. It's literal.]] The second question will be... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Members, please do not discuss this at the time of your speech. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I wish I could bring up that information. [[We're sorry.]] I can't even tell you who was protected in your day. [[You said that at the committee meeting. That didn't bother you at the time. Remember?]] ...and now it's not, because this clause isn't abolished. All I'm gonna say is that the absolute lie is... Minister, will you finish... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I'm finishing my sentence, Marshal. An absolute lie is e.g. The fact that the Secretarys of State weren't in charge of your government's protection. They were also included in the Undersecretaries of State, and I would have a lot of doubts about that. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Cezary Tomczyk will ask... Stay here, Minister, because that's... [[I'm from the podium, Marshal.]] Oh, good. Please, Mr Cezary Tomczyk will ask an additional question. I'm reminding you of the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u53	Yes, Your Marshal. The Minister uses the classic formula: I know, but I won't. The problem is that your classified information, the information you mention, is in the media. They're in the media, they're on TV, they're in the papers. Everyone can watch it. You say it's a condition to act for the good of the state, but you're the judge of your own cause. You've given yourself protection. Look, Mr. BOR's looking through the door to see if you've finished your speech. It's a problem today that you from the government security office, the military police, the state services, have made an instrument of power. Just like Mr. Misiewicz, who was under an umbrella, just like Mrs. Zalewska under an umbrella, like Mrs. Witek under an umbrella. That's what the government security office is to you today: a power tool, a Byzantium tool, just an umbrella hanger, from cutting confetti, from getting the cops to putting their wings on. It's really very interesting, but these are soldiers, officers who have their honour, who have been called to protect the most important people in the country, not to cut out confetti for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, we ask: How many officers are involved? Your Marshal, if I may have one sentence...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u54	One.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u55	Let me give you an example. Mr Nitras spoke about Minister Semoniaku with one bodyguard. At the fair in Kielce, 100 officers of the Military Gendarmerie were protected by Minister Macierewicz. 100 officers in one day. Is that normal? Are you gonna tell me this is normal? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bullshit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u56	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! What he sees or thinks he understands, I will not comment, because it does not make sense, because your knowledge is simply insignificant. Besides, you interpret it in your own way. I can't go into this just for the reasons I've been talking about. [[At the open committee meeting, you came in. You said names, Minister.]] All I'm going to say is that, if you're talking about numbers, here you go, at least some of them I'm going to quote, because maybe the numbers aren't really violating the essence of this protection provision. In this term of office - maybe I will give this category - people... Because there are different periods of protection, for different periods of time, people are covered by protection, but let's take a period of more than six months. In the current 8th term of the Sejm, which is the time Also our government, security over six months has been granted eight people. In the seventh term, the last one of yours, 11 in the same category. In your previous term of office, your first, or VI, 17 people. This is an example, of course, it can be further developed, but I would like you gentlemen to consider what I have said, with good will, with concern for the security of the state and protected people, because these decisions are not made as a result of some whim, but for some reason only, so it must be taken into account. [[But can you wear an umbrella or not?]] On the other hand, sir, your confetti trials, your umbrella... Of course, I know what this is all about. [[It's your confetti and umbrella, not ours.]] Maybe there's an opportunity to talk about confetti, it's actually a good opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, you are insulting the people of Podlasie, the Augustan land. Confetti was part of the celebration of Independence Day, in honor of and honoring the independence and inhabitants of this patriotic land, hard to experience, among others. Augustan manhunt. Not for me, I don't need confetti. Just 'cause you guys did it with your media, you don't know what it is, it's your business, so you're making fun of it, not me. I know you're trying to embarrass me. It's just an example of how you hate the Law and Justice, and in this case to me, it sends out normal associations. Independence Day is the time... [[Did you tell the cops to cut confetti or not?]] No, I didn't. [[Did they tell each other to do it?]] No, I didn't. Confetti was part of the celebration of Independence Day, a joyful holiday. It was for independence, for the inhabitants and for their patriotism. I repeat, no confetti has ever been, never has been, never will be, and never will be necessary. So don't talk stupidly, don't insult people, and don't insult the independent Republic of... [[And the umbrella?]] ...because the joyous Independence Day can be celebrated in different ways, including in the very ways that they express joy. That's it. [[I was Secretary of State, and no one wore an umbrella above me.]] Yeah, we can say that one at a time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, Mr President, rather, think about the context of what is the basis for this answer and your questions, so that the court does not resent that we have said too much, because so far the cases in the courts - you do not listen to this, Mr - which were, we have won precisely because we are acting in accordance with the Act on the protection of classified information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras has tabled a request for correction. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u59	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! You are the leader of the Polish Police. Please note that I asked you a question, I didn't offend you at all. I wasn't personally referring to you. I asked you a very simple question: How many government officers are protected by the BOR? You provide some partial data that is beneficial to you, and you can't answer a simple question. We don't ask for names. We ask about the scale, the number of people, and you come and insult us, talk about some paws, some wave, that we're being ridiculous. Why are you so aggressive with us? You're in charge of the police, and then the police are exactly the same as you, because you're setting an example. You're just being rude to Members. We didn't deserve this in any way. Because you're protected by Mr. BOR, you're so brave, but if you could show such a culture in Suwałki without the BOR, it would have ended badly for you. I understand where you got BOR, just remember: You are speaking to a Member in the Polish Sejm and please show us basic respect. You're missing it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] respect for us and our citizens. And then the cops follow the same pattern. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u60	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u61	As you can see, sir, I am close to you and I am not afraid of you... [[What's the mode? You're not afraid of me because you have bodyguards, and I am afraid of you.]] ...without protection. But I'm not particularly afraid because you're losing in this discussion because you're lacking culture. You said I speak sharp language because you're an envoy. I'm an MEP too, sir. I'm an envoy, too. [[Applause]] So in short, if you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u62	Minister, please address the matter in substance, not comment. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: It's all material, Your Marshal. Substantively, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: But it can't be that Members are talking nonsense to each other, and I can't answer that. [[What kind of nonsense are they talking about? What kind of language is that?]] One answer is therefore - in conclusion - the most important, so that there is no confusion: At the time of the rule of law and justice there are fewer people protected by the Office of Government Protection than in both terms, one at a time in each of them, during the time of the government of PO-PSL. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Why are you hiding this?]] [[I'll tell you again, I was Secretary of State and no one was carrying an umbrella behind me.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. This question will be about the legal legitimacy of the existence of regional platforms. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza. The question will be asked by Mrs Anna Czech, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u63	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In Małopolska, as well as in many other regions, a regional project carried out by the local government and 39 hospitals is being prepared to guarantee inter alia. the production and exchange of electronic medical records by these entities and access to records also to patients. The value of the entire project, covering the regional part, as well as the local part, is a significant amount: PLN 210 million, and the nationwide P1 platform will eventually cover two documents, as I am aware: e-directions and e-recepts. On the other hand, regional platforms will be a tool to ensure the exchange of electronic documentation between medicinal products that are obliged to do so by 2021 and earlier to produce medical records. Regional projects for the construction of regional platforms contribute to the preparation of medicinal entities for this task by purchasing the necessary infrastructure and ensuring that they are ready for electronic exchange and thus to a statutory obligation. Will regional platforms be legally incorporated in the Health Information System Act as part of the medical information system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u64	You're welcome, Minister, to respond. Would you like to ask two questions immediately, or... [[I can already ask you a second question.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u65	Second question: What are the plans of the Ministry to ensure financial sustainability, that is, organisationally, and to ensure supervision of data security because of the importance of this problem and the sensitivity of data? What surveillance system is the Ministry of Health planning? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u66	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u67	Dear Marshal! Dear Member Asking the question! Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! Regional platforms are bottom-up activities, you might say, of the various voivodships. Regional and health platforms, so to speak, have been created in the previous financial perspective of European funding and have been created the more the less likely the central platform, the P1, will be implemented and will have the functionalities that were planned. It could therefore be said that this was a bottom-up movement related to the regional policy of individual voivodship authorities, and therefore individual platforms have different functionality. That's the charm of this situation. In conclusion, it could be said that there are about eight regional platforms and, in addition, four more are being built or planned. Functionalities that are included in these platforms, although this is not a standard and these functionalities are different, for example: patients' access to information about provided and planned benefits, the provision by medicinal entities of data enabling the exchange of electronic medical records, the archiving of medical records, so-called. e-registration, i.e. the electronic recording of patients for a visit, the monitoring of the status on the waiting list and notification of the visit date, and the electronic access of patients to laboratory results. It is precisely because these platforms have different functionality, they function in different models, it is difficult to build a uniform principle at the moment. That is why, indeed, at the Ministry of Health, we are preparing to put platforms in the legal system. This will require a revision of the Health Information System Act, precisely in relation to the article. 5 where regional platforms would need to be placed. This will, of course, be the subject of a separate legislative procedure, so we will continue to discuss this issue - the scope and responsibilities, as well as a model. Right now, we're in the position that it shouldn't be mandatory. It is about introducing a regulation that would allow the platform to participate in the exchange of information to the extent it has at its disposal in the voivodships in which the platform operates, provided that participation in the running costs of the platform would be spread over those who use its services. This is how we see the construction of regional platforms at the moment. In conclusion, yes, we do see the need to regulate and put regional platforms in the system, but not as a mandatory dimension - also in terms of the content and functionality to be dealt with by these platforms - and to adapt it to practice, life, choice, and the possibility for medicinal users to cover their current costs. It should also be added that platform P1 is not only related to e-prescription and e-direction, but also to the exchange of electronic medical records. This platform is to collect information on the basis of which the doctor knows that there has been a medical emergency. Then, with the consent of the patient, he may obtain electronic medical records from the entity where the benefit took place. So that this electronic medical records will not go directly through the P1 platform. It is intended to enable the exchange of electronic medical records between individuals. Answering the second question: here there are no detailed regulations that are in the Health Information System Act. This is a reference to other common regulations in this area, several laws which refer to this. I hope that my information and answers will be sufficient for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u68	Yes? [[Yes, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Will you ask both questions in this situation? Because Mr Honourable is not here. [[I think it will, unless it comes and asks.]] Both, right? [[I think so. If the Member makes it in time, he will ask.]] In that case, the next question will be the National Alzheimer's Plan and the situation of people with Alzheimer's disease and dementia. It will be a question to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Zbigniew Józef Król will answer. I see Mr Mikhal Szczerba is here. Do you ask the first question, sir, or do you ask the Member? The Member asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u69	Good morning, Marshal. Hello, Minister. High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki said during the exposé: "There is no decent life without efficient health care. He's given a lot of room for health, a lot of room for seniors. We would like to draw the attention of the High House and the Minister of Health to the issue of care for people with Alzheimer's disease. In this respect, we have the latest report, dated May 2017, on the care of people with Alzheimer's disease and on support for their families. In fact, the result of this report is clear: in Poland, no tools have been created to solve the problems of people with Alzheimer's disease and their families effectively and effectively. In this respect, the NIK made specific recommendations to the Minister responsible for Health. Identical conclusions are drawn from the Ombudsman's report. Some time ago, the Polish Alzheimer's Organization Agreement prepared the foundation of the National Alzheimer's Plan. Such a plan operates in many countries of the European Union. The aim of the plan would be to improve the situation of patients with Alzheimer's disease and to provide them with treatment and conditions for their decent existence. Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia development and presents a challenge not only medical but also social. He suffers from this disease up to 470,000. Poles. Does the Minister of Health share the comments of the Supreme Chamber of Control and the Ombudsman? Will the Minister of Health prepare and implement the National Alzheimer's Plan? ♪ Will you at last ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Ministry of Health will support the amendment I tabled on this issue to the state budget for 2018? During the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, you were silent. This amendment did not receive a recommendation from the Committee on Public Finance, although it had previously received a positive recommendation from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u70	I ask you, Minister Zbigniew Józef King, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u71	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this question, because this is a topic that actually arouses a lot of emotions. I think that regardless of the number of meetings, including on the NIK report, dementia or diseases affecting the elderly, it is worthwhile that we simply debate this issue. With regard to the specific questions asked or to the comments and doubts, I would like to say first of all that dementia has been recognised as a priority of health policy in Poland, they have been included in the regulation of the Minister of Health on health priorities at the point on the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of mental disorders and at the point: improving the quality and effectiveness of geriatric care for the elderly patient. The importance of this issue is also highlighted by the inclusion in the 2016-2020 National Health Programme of measures aimed at improving the health of older people, taking into account the issues of dementia. One of the main operational objectives has been addressed in this document to promote healthy and active ageing. Included here, among others. actions such as carrying out a scientific study on the health situation of older people, improving the quality of care provided to them, health education of seniors, and encouraging them to take preventive measures. However, it should be borne in mind that the National Health Programme is not an act on the basis of which health programmes on organisational and financial changes in the healthcare system can be adopted. On the other hand, with regard to the preparation of the National Alzheimer's Plan - this discussion has been going on for many years, an outline of this programme was created in 2011 and it can be said from that moment on that there is indeed a debate, not just public debate. The Ministry of Health examines these assumptions in particular in terms of the possibility of ensuring effective and cost-effective treatment, which is an essential requirement for qualifying a given benefit for public funding. At present, based on the opinion of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, which refers to the various elements of this strategy, e.g. a population screening study and a second element, which essentially dominates the world in terms of this disease, i.e. the absence of a therapeutic offer based on strong scientific evidence, is extremely difficult to develop a coherent programme which would result in a clinically significant improvement in the health situation of this patient group. Currently, benefits for people with this disease are financed under different types and ranges of care, according to the patient's needs and available preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic and rehabilitation opportunities. Medical care for patients with Alzheimer's disease at their place of residence is provided by primary care doctors, whereas in the event of the need for further specialist research and consultation, treatment is carried out as part of outpatient specialist care. In cases where the purpose of treatment is not achievable as part of outpatient treatment, the physician should refer the recipient to hospital, rehabilitation or any other treatment. Coordinated care for patients with Alzheimer's disease is not isolated as all elements of such care are currently available. It should be noted that a primary care doctor who provides benefits to patients over 66 years of age and up to 75 years of age receives a 2.5-fold capitulation rate and above 75 years old - three times. In addition, the primary care nurse who provides these benefits receives a 2-fold rate for persons over 65 years of age. In order to ensure that patients with Alzheimer's disease have adequate quality of care and to standardise it as much as possible, a standard should be laid down for the diagnosis and treatment of this group of patients in terms of public-funded benefits. It is also important to check how the standard can be implemented into the whole health system. According to the wording of the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Public-funded health care law recommendations are drawn up by national scientific associations. However, the medical technology assessment agency is currently developing guidelines for the creation of these standards of ethics, which, I hope, will help such scientific associations to develop a given standard. The fact that in 2016 the NFZ set a nation-wide priority in planning the purchase of benefits under the name: Increasing accessibility to benefits dedicated to older people over 60 years of age within the scope of geriatrics and psychogeriatrics such as psychiatry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It should also be noted that the NFZ allocates higher resources to fund benefits to these groups. On the other hand, on the suggestion of support, this amendment is generally in Parliament's hands at the moment. We respond at every stage, on every committee, presenting our position. I think in the second part...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u72	Stay here, Minister. Mrs Lydia Gądek will ask an additional question and then we will also ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If, like other countries, a national Alzheimer's plan was created, this would probably solve many problems, of course not all. Age-related cognitive disorders, but also polypragma, are increasingly common - due to demographic changes as well. The Minister was kind to say that we have appropriate mechanisms within the framework of basic health care. Well, we don't have that kind of mechanism. We have only slightly more resources to care for the elderly, which very often with polypragma, multi-morbidity does not protect patients' needs. Today, however, we do not have, firstly, a procedure for patients with cognitive disorders, which means that we do not have guidelines that the primary healthcare doctor could apply as part of screening, or early diagnosis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Second thing. We talked in the process of proceding the Basic Healthcare Act about why you need a primary health care team psychologist and physiotherapist so badly. The primary healthcare doctor, if he is to conduct proper diagnosis and treatment of these patients at an early stage, needs these people to conduct diagnostics and therapy, patients need these specialists at an early stage. Today, unfortunately, this is absolutely impossible, also in the light of the new law on basic health care. Therefore, Minister, it is also a question, and an appeal. Let us proceed with this programme. If the Minister said, however, that the Ministry would rather use this money for the Alzheimer's programme, it might be worth convincing the parliamentary majority, which is, colloquially speaking, yours, to support such an amendment and to allocate this money to create a good programme for Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u74	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u75	At the moment, the primary care doctor has full possibilities of eliminating polypragma. Reports of all kinds plus standards, let's say, in the form of the definition of health care organisations did not have any effect on these patients. If we do not have effective therapies here, effective preventive tools, then we can describe programmes and interventions that we will not be able to implement. As far as the amount is concerned, two and a half times or three times higher, a primary care doctor, if he needs a psychologist, should hire him, so to speak. There's just one thing - who would the doctor want this psychologist to call? As for screening, first of all, geriatric hospitals carry out a comprehensive geriatric evaluation. Secondly, in all hospitals for elderly patients who are admitted to hospitals, classification is foreseen, the scale of the VES-13 which should be used. And these are the elements that bear, so to speak, the signs of mental status assessment and possible dementia in these patients. I believe that based on this data, we are able to help these patients more effectively. I have said at several committee meetings and several meetings, including teams, that after the Agency has examined the assessment of medical technology recommendations for clinical guidelines, the Agency does not recommend screening for dementia diseases in non-symptomatic persons. This is the response to the recommendation contained in the report NIK, which you presented. The sensitivity and specificity of the currently available tests is not satisfactory when used in screening tests. The president of the agency also showed that the evaluation process for dementia in patients should be individual and should take into account factors such as patient history, cognitive function testing, physical examination or patient review of medications. The occurrence of dementia should be assessed as a result of a comprehensive evaluation of the patient, as only such treatment allows for an appropriate diagnosis. This is a response to suggestions for screening. We don't rule out programming. We are currently working with a national consultant [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the field of neurology, a comprehensive programme for the prevention of dementia, a programme which will be a new programme complementing existing activities. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u76	I thank you very much for your question and the Minister for his answer. Let's move on to the next question. This question will be about the construction of the Rail Baltica Białystok - Ełk route. It is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. The first question will be asked by Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Rail Baltica is the most important railway route in the Podlaskie Voivodeship and one of the most important railway lines in the country. The investment is treated as a priority by the current Government of Law and Justice as an international transport corridor that will connect Berlin, Warsaw, Kaunas, Riga, Tallinn and Helsinki. After completion of the entire project, the expected maximum train speed is assumed to be 160 km/h. This investment will improve the safety of rail traffic, freight transport and road traffic on rail and road journeys. New train traffic control devices will be created to enable trains to operate smoothly. All infrastructure will be adapted to the needs of people with mobility disabilities. Recently, disturbing signals have been received, especially from opposition Members of the Podlaskie Voivodeship, that this investment will not be implemented because there is no financial means to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would therefore like to ask the Minister the following questions: When is the completion of the whole route planned? Are the funds secured for the Rail Baltica route and where do they come from? What is the commitment of Białystok - Grajewo - Ełk section construction work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u78	You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Draft work on the E75 railway line in the section Białystok - Suwałki - Trakiszko - border of the country: the first stage of this project, i.e. section Białystok - Ełk, is the next phase of design work on the E75 line. The project covers the railway infrastructure in the section Białystok - Ełk on the following lines: line 38, i.e. from 4. to 103. km, line number 41, they are such connections at 1 km, line no. 515 - at 2 km, line no. 516 also at 2 km and line no. 223 with departure towards Orzysz, at 120 km. The project received funding under the third CEF competition. With the next update of the National Railway Programme, which is in force until 2023, it will be shifted from the reserve list to the basic list, in order to ensure the financing of own contribution, as the value of the project is almost EUR 400 million, i.e. about PLN 1724 million and 338 336 thousand. the euro, i.e. 85% , amounts to the co-financing from the CEF. The duration of this project is the years 2018 and 2023. Currently, the implementation of this project is at the stage of the selection procedure for the contractor of the project work. As soon as the contractor is selected, the project work will be carried out. As you have already said, but may I remind you, the following modernisation work is envisaged in this project: on line 38 - this line is to be two-track, at a maximum speed of 160 km/h - comprehensive strengthening of the platform, renewal of track surfaces, also renewal, rehabilitation of line 41, 223, 515 and 516, with one-track sections left there, because these are the connectors, at the assumed speed, and the construction of the corresponding traction network here, the construction of platforms, buildings and engineering facilities, as well as the construction of computer traffic control, telecommunications and of course safety devices, the reconstruction of the existing traction network for tracks designed in the section Białystok - Ełk. Perhaps to remind you that we still have an episode of Czyżew - Białystok. We want to implement this section by 2020, and this is over 1,600 million PLN. This section of Białystok - Ełk is 1724 million PLN, Białystok - Sokółka - Kuźnica Białostocka - the state border is over 187 million PLN. This project was implemented in the years 2018 to 20201, the previous one, as I said, Białystok - Suwałki, in the years 2018 to 2013. Also section of railway no. 32, Białystok - Bielsk, that is 63 million PLN. In total, all the work in the Podlaskie voivodship to be carried out on railway lines is almost PLN 4100 million, on all these sections, and this is mainly planned until 2020, sometimes by 2023. Next episodes - we can only join the border section when the European Commission announces another CEF competition. Then we'll file a motion. There is a great deal of sympathy and even pressure from the European Commission to do so. As soon as they announce another contest to finance the further route, we will join this competition and will undoubtedly receive funding for the next episode. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u80	Thank you very much. And an additional question will be asked by Wojciech Kossakowski, the Law and Justice, too. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, you've been pretty thorough about our questions. Nevertheless, maybe I would still ask, for example. The EU Transport Projects Centre has already issued appropriate confirmations for these investments as to whether all these permits are in place. Perhaps I would also ask about the issue of the rail traffic control system. The Rail Baltica project assumes that the so-called Rail Baltica project will be used. ERTMS 2. At present, level 3 of this system is already dominant. It significantly increases the capacity of the railway line on which it is installed. My question is: Is it possible to immediately install level 3 instead of level 2 or possibly raise it in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u82	You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! At the moment, the Centre for EU Transport Projects has signed all contracts for works on this section to Bialystok, while as regards this section between Bialystok and Ełk, the contracts are still in preparation at the moment. As I said, this is the first stage of preparation for the project, for the design work, the selection of the contractor. On the other hand, as soon as this first stage is completed, then, of course, further contracts will be signed. As far as the security system that is planned is concerned, here is the level 2 system. According to previous assumptions, it will be implemented at level 2. Perhaps if additional resources could be obtained, but this would require more funding, the level of the security system could be increased. In our opinion, at speeds of up to 160 km/h, this level 2 system is sufficient. If we increase this speed in the future, then we will also use a higher level system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u84	Thank you very much, Minister and Members. Let's move on to the next question. This is a question about the functioning of the National Cyber Security System, addressed to the Minister for Digitalisation. Undersecretary of State in this ministry Mr Krzysztof Silicki will answer. The first question will be asked by Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u85	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With the dynamic development of technology over the years, cyberspace has changed significantly. Today, it is primarily a virtual space where connected computers and other digital media communicate with each other. It's a new kind of new kind of social space where we meet every day using the Internet or calling. Cyberspace protection has today become one of the most frequently undertaken security-related topics. We know that after the acquisition of power in Poland by Law and Justice at the end of 2015, one of the most important directions chosen was the security of cyberspace. We know, because during very intense work in this department a lot has been done. And we have a question that comes up on its own. What were the delays of the predecessors? What are cyberspace security solutions implemented? At a time when information systems allow huge amounts of information to be collected, data security oversight is one of the key challenges of each country. As an example, I can give you the incident of 21 June 2015, which caused the IT system at Chopin Airport in Warsaw to fail for several hours. It didn't fly out nearly 1.4,000. passengers, 10 flights have been cancelled, several flights have been delayed. According to experts investigating the cause of this crash, it was a hacker attack by the DDoS consisting of using a large number of computers, which connect at the same time to the affected server, overload it and most often paralyze it. Minister! In view of the above, I would ask you to provide information on what measures have been taken to safeguard [[♪ The bell ♪]] Cyberspace. We have hacker activities here, but we also have various kinds of attacks by people who should be rationally expressing themselves, that is to say, personal attacks. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u86	You're welcome. Mr Krzysztof Silicki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u87	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Cybersecurity is indeed a major civilization challenge. And the fact that we are dealing with a dynamic development of various threats to cyberspace users, but also to the infrastructure key to the functioning of the state, for the functioning of the economy, makes the actions that should be taken and taken a number of areas. This must be practical action and legislative action. It is known that here, in this area, legislation is usually subjected to great pressure due to the speed of change, the need to adapt. I would first like to draw attention to the strategy paper, which was adopted in April this year by a resolution of the Council of Ministers, a strategy document on cybersecurity. I am talking here about the National Cyber Security Policy Frameworks for the years 2017 and 202022. This document was created as part of the work of the interministerial team. It was not that only the Ministry of Digitalization was working on it, on the contrary. Since we are dealing with cyberterrorism issues, cybercrime issues, there are many aspects that concern many resorts, and those that even deal with national security, we have tried to ensure that this document reflects all possible aspects of cybersecurity. This document, as I say, was created and one of the actions resulting from the adoption of this document was also legislative action. That is why we have been working together with other resorts for months on a draft law on the National Cybersecurity System. This is a project that is in a very advanced phase. We're after a conference, after a committee of common government and self-government. This draft law is very important from this point of view, that from next year it will impose very specific obligations on entities which are defined as offering key services for the functioning of the economy and society. The Act will also be a way to implement the so-called. the NIS Directive, i.e. the European Union Directive on measures for a high common level of network and information security in the European Union. So, as I say, on the one hand, the powerful work involved in the development of the strategy, the preparation of legislative projects, and on the other hand the actions that can be called practical actions. As early as 2016 the National Cyber Security Centre was established operating within the National Research Institute of NASK, which is a body supervised by the Ministry of Digitalization, where they are on 24/7 on-call to monitor threats in the sense of receiving information about incidents and ensuring adequate response. It can only be said that in statistics from January to October this year. It was the center that adopted almost 19,000. reports and selected more than 2 000 from these applications. real incidents. Such incidents, which can also be read in the media, are not the only ones that are handled at national level. In the bill we rely on what is already working, what is to be used. Here I am talking about the construction of three response teams at national level, i.e. the CERT teams at the Internal Security Agency, the Ministry of National Defence and the National Cyber Security Centre. In addition, as of mid-November, the cybersecurity component has been launched as part of the regional alert system, i.e. information about cybersecurity threats is also being communicated from then on to this alert system. It is also a question of manuals that will gradually talk more and more about how to protect themselves. With regard to the state which was in 2015, the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which assessed the state, can be used here. As you know, this assessment was very, very negative. The report makes very many criticisms. That's all we're trying to do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in these actions, make sure that such comments simply do not exist. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u88	Additional question - Mr Grzegorz Puda, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The world is changing, cyberspace is growing faster and faster. A lot of people can't imagine living without this other cybernetic side of the world. Among the many benefits we can talk about online shopping opportunities, the possibility of using electronic banking and many, many other areas of life. Threats are growing at the same time. Any information may be used against a person, institution or State. What kind of legal safeguards can we have against stealing information in this regard? Is the best protection and protection of privacy only for you to give up such online services, or are there any solutions that you have at your disposal? Do we have a security programme covering all state institutions, a comprehensive programme? Are confidential information secured and how? And perhaps the most important question: do we realize that our state institutions, banks, [[♪ The bell ♪]] enterprises, libraries, museums, theatres must maintain classical archives in the event of natural or cyber-war disasters, which may be the result of much more dangerous than this normal, real war? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u90	You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u91	Thank you for that question. This question illustrates the scale of the problem, as we are talking here about the security of electronic services, we are talking here about hybrid threats, we are talking here about new ways of doing things, we can even call it war. Again, I want to go back to this strategic document, where we have just tried to get all the departments responsible for the particular aspects of these threats to convince them to take up challenges, and that has happened. The strategy in the form of a national framework provides for the development of the so-called. a plan for the implementation of this strategy. As part of this strategy implementation plan, we are also in the final stage of approving this plan. We have dozens of actions in all these areas. Let's hope we can make it all happen, because it's a big challenge. But there's not one miracle mechanism here that can secure everything and everyone. It is rather important to focus on cooperation in specific areas and to develop very concrete actions. If anyone looks at the list of projects, often very large, which result from this strategy, you can see what is the scale of the challenge that is facing us. So, unfortunately, there is no one answer to the question of how to protect ourselves from all these dangers. As for their nature, they may look similar, but depending on the motivation, depending on the target, they may have smaller or larger effects depending on the scale. She gave an example of the DDoS attack on the airport. Now we are also talking to sectors, particularly the civil aviation sector, about the establishment of sector-specific initiatives, so-called. sector-specific CERTs, which will monitor and react rapidly to threats in particular sectors. The more such CERTs arise, the more this national level will have not so much an easier task as better, faster action so that these problems can be eliminated in the bud. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u92	I thank the Minister and the Members very much. We move on to the last, ninth question on the position of Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development on the Communication from the European Commission on the future of the CAP for the period 2020 to 2027, announced on 29 November 2017. This is a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Mr Ryszard Zarudzki will answer. The first question will be asked by Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice. Excuse me, it is indeed marked that it will be Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The impact of the common agricultural policy on Polish agriculture is significant, as is the case for every European country. Of course, this does not exempt us from the obligation to conduct also national agricultural policy, but certainly because of the volume of direct support for Polish agriculture, which is an important element of Polish farmers' income, changes in the common agricultural policy are clearly of great interest to all Polish farmers. Each country has its own specificity, Poland has its own. Poland has a specific agriculture characterized, among others. a large number of smaller farms. Therefore, the way Brussels wants to model, to change the common agricultural policy is for us, once again, very, very important. Those who have also learned the wrong experience in the programming of the common agricultural policy for 2014 and 2020 when, in my opinion, the Polish authorities have given up the negotiating field too easily and have not won as much as is necessary because of the potential of the Polish countryside, Polish agriculture, and we want to monitor very precisely what is happening at the level of negotiations between the EU countries and the European Commission in terms of the new perspective after 2020. The European Commission prepared a report on 29 November this year in which it presented its proposal, its vision of the common agricultural policy. It is very important what position the Polish Minister of Agriculture, Minister responsible for Agriculture, presents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] how the European Commission feels about this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u94	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u95	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for that question. The publication of a Communication from the European Commission on 29 November is an important element in the discussion on the future of the common agricultural policy. It should be borne in mind that the discussion has not been held since 29 November, but at least since the beginning of 2016. It also took place in the context of the future multiannual financial framework, i.e. the Union budget. This is very important. Those two things need to be separated. The agricultural resort was active in this process. We have developed an analysis showing the value of the European Union, the opportunities offered by the common agricultural policy itself in terms of spending on it from the EU budget. We have prepared a directional government position on the future of the common agricultural policy. The CAP priorities were adopted by the Council of Ministers on 16 May. Poland is one of the first countries of the Union to take such a position before the European Commission has drawn up a communication. Minister Krzysztof Jurgel and other representatives of the Ministry presented our expectations at all meetings, bilaterally and multilaterally, with EU partners, as well as at the meeting of the Union Council on the agriculture. In June 2017, during the Polish Presidency of the Visegrad Group, we led to the adoption of a declaration on the future of the common agricultural policy. Bulgaria, Romania and Slovenia also supported this declaration. We also encouraged farmers and their organisations to participate actively in the public consultation carried out by the European Commission in the first half of 2017. All this time we were very active and a lot of good has happened on this issue. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development notes, already referring directly to the Commission's communication that the common agricultural policy should remain an important policy of the Union, taking into account both new needs, challenges and international commitments. The objectives of the common agricultural policy enshrined in the Treaty remain valid and their fulfilment is an important task of this policy. It's a positive element of the message. This is such a first basic reference to this communication. In addition, the Commission points out that the common agricultural policy should be more closely involved in the achievement of the objectives of other policies, in particular, as I stress, the environment and the climate. This is very often repeated in the communication: environment and climate. After 2020 these will be very important problem areas to resolve. However, the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture lacks a clear reference to the growing needs of the common agricultural policy budget. The future common agricultural policy operating under increasingly open Union market conditions and implementing new public functions requires strong budgetary funding and the achievement of many ambitious objectives set out in the Communication. This depends decisively on the budgetary decisions to be taken in May next year. This is an important time to use. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has a number of questions and doubts, specific questions and specific doubts concerning the new system for implementing the common agricultural policy proposed by the European Commission. First of all, it is not certain that this solution will actually bring simplification. The new system can be a major challenge for the national administration, especially if this completely new approach will be implemented with little time, which cannot be ruled out today due to the tight calendar that has been adopted. The Commission devotes a great deal of space to the tasks related to the economic development of rural areas, the modernisation of the agri-food sector, the promotion of disadvantaged areas and targeted support for the environment and climate. In the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, these tasks justify maintaining a strong second pillar. Appropriate funds for Pillar II should be provided in the future budget and their distribution should be based on criteria reflecting the development gap between regions. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development notes the lack of a clear statement in the Communication on the need for full convergence of direct payments. An appropriate CAP budget and equalisation of direct payments are necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of the single market for agricultural products in the European Union. The challenges proposed by the Commission regarding the environmental and climate dimension, as I mentioned, of the common agricultural policy, first require that the differences in the level of support reflecting the intensity of production from a dozen years ago be eliminated. The compensation of direct payments may not be deferred in time. The Communication does not devote much space to the need to maintain safety net instruments. In addition, the Communication ignores the importance of production-related payments. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture recognises the imbalance in the Commission's document with regard to the involvement of individual policies in the achievement of the EU's objectives. And in this context, yes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Ministry's preliminary assessment of the proposal for a future common agricultural policy, as set out in the Commission's Communication, is based on the preliminary assessment of the proposal for a future common agricultural policy. We are still working on a detailed position on this document. We have asked for an opinion on the Communication to the social partners and experts who support the Ministry of Agriculture in its work on the shape of the common agricultural policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u96	Thank you very much. Stay here, Minister, or there will be a question. Now Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u97	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We, as Members of the Law and Justice, and especially Members who work in committee, know how important this moment of negotiations with the European Union is with regard to the common agricultural policy after 2020. We know that so far these negotiations have been soft and those governments that have been so far... Who was negotiating? We know who was negotiating - especially this group that is known as an agricultural party. It negotiated bad conditions for the Polish farmer. It is such a condition that we are cheated as Polish farmers, because these subsidies are too low so far and we have still far to the average, and as far as the old Union is concerned, these subsidies per hectare are much higher there. Minister, we will submit today or tomorrow a draft resolution of the Sejm, which will support the Polish government in these negotiations. Minister, is such a resolution necessary and whether [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is such a resolution in these negotiations gonna help? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u98	I think with great satisfaction and acceptance - I can assume that with acceptance, I think - the Minister... because when we talk, this is what we need. So it goes against this, the more that we must use the time until May at the same time, because in May decisions will be made on the multiannual financial framework. And this position of the Sejm strengthens our priorities and strengthens our position, our country's position, and not only that we are working with other countries, but it is also about the country's position in the context of the common agricultural policy and in the context of what is very important here, Mr, cohesion policy. The strong mandate that we can obtain from Parliament is a very strong support for our actions so far - and for that I thank you in advance - all the more so since it concerns this period until May, the financial framework in May, and then it is July, August and September. The committee does not work in August, but the first legislative proposals are already in July and September, so we cannot miss this period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 on the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the deteriorating situation in Polish agriculture, about which the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party brought the presentation, will be discussed at this meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. But before I give the floor to the Member, I will announce a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 30 hours 14 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 16. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. I would ask you to speak, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Polish People's Party Club at the beginning of this term said that agricultural affairs and activities of the Minister of Agriculture would be particularly interested, as in previous years. Today's discussion is a powerful example of this, because the discussion, on the vote of distrust, on the appeal of Minister Jurgiel, did not bring the effect expected by Polish farmers, because the Minister is still doing this function and the situation in the Polish village is systematically deteriorating, so it is a request that the Minister refer to a number of issues which have happened or are unfortunately continued in the meantime. We are in the Christmas season and many Poles today wonder why many agricultural products, which have a large share in the Christmas diet, are more expensive, and think that farmers probably earn extra money. It is worth noting, Minister, that the rise in product prices for Polish consumers is absolutely not accompanied by an increase in income generated by Polish farmers. There is a phenomenon that you have repeatedly criticised, and we also think that these scissors are opening up, i.e. consumers are paying more and more for food products, and farmers are getting less and less, so these scissors are opening up, corporateism is flourishing fully. I wanted to raise another point, Minister, in which there has been a drastic development since, unfortunately, a negative one. I don't want to bully the government again about ASF, so just a few examples. Already 104 outbreaks among pigs, 700 among wild boars, no real aid for farmers, no compensation payments, no effective fight against ASF, which has already crossed the natural border, which is the river Vistula, began to develop in Mazowsze. Today you can see very clearly, and such calls are received several days, that the current chaos causes that we do not fight this pest, we do not master the African swine fever virus, but it blooms on an unprecedented scale. I think your idea of building a fence, a fence on the border with Belarus is delayed by at least a dozen months. The malicious people claim that this will be your monument, which will show inability to fight ASF, even more maliciously say that the more effective fence will rise at the German border, because the Germans will want to defend themselves against ASF, which is in Poland, and even more maliciously say that this fence will protect Belarus from the growing ASF in Poland, so that these wild boars will not reach and cause it. There's even bigger losses. Another very dangerous phenomenon that we are seeing, unfortunately, is that, Minister, the Hunting Damage Act is not working. You're not doing anything about it. You're not doing anything about your political environment. Farmers have more and more losses caused by wild game, and real compensation as it has not been, does not exist. And let me remind you that this is two years after we took power, and I will also remind you that the special subcommittee on Hunting Law, which was working at that time, has unfortunately postponed the repair of this system for another period. It is also worth paying attention to an even more disturbing phenomenon. Well, your officials are bragging, and sometimes you are also proud of the fact that foreign trade in agri-food products is improving. Previously, as you were in the opposition, you have been very critical of this, but we will say clearly that the increase in exports, which is a good phenomenon, because it shows the level of Polish farmers and entrepreneurs, unfortunately accompanied by the phenomenon of gross growth of imports, which we can see perfectly, that is, the balance is getting worse, money is being exported from Poland, not produced products for which money would be obtained. If we are already on export, it is worth paying attention to your officials, as well as to your political environment, that this disliked, unwanted, hated by you Russia is buying products from Poland, even outside the embargo, and over the past 7 months exports to Russia have increased by 25% and reached the level of about PLN 1 billion. So is this an important market for Polish products or not? I would ask you to refer to the embargo case, as I would ask you to refer personally to what was just raised. What is your personal position as Minister for Agriculture, but also in the context of your political environment or the behaviour of the MEPs in the European Parliament, where there has been ongoing discussion of the future common agricultural policy or more of the financial resources to be allocated to it after Brexit and after the adoption of a policy to ensure internal security for migrants in the European Union, what do you think about compensating the budget and the integrity of the common agricultural policy? Because your political environment, your colleagues did not vote, they did not support the maintenance of the common agricultural policy as it stands. I am also curious what your attitude towards this great protest, which was under the Seym, several thousand people who protested against the proposals made by your political environment regarding traditional slaughter or the breeding of fur animals. It is worth noting that the prospects for the coming years are that the increase in exports of animal products will take place in the markets of North Africa, the Middle East and the Far East. We know who's buying there, and we know what his requirements are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So if this law comes into force, will it not be another nail in the coffin of Polish animal breeding? That's it for now, Minister. I think that many Members in the questions will draw attention to other negative phenomena that occur in rural areas under your rule. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u101	Thank you, sir. And I ask the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Krzysztof Jurgel to answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was amazed to hear Mr Maliszewski's comments on the state of Polish agriculture, because each speech contained different arguments, and that is mostly not true. [[Talk to the real ones.]] On the other hand, I would like to inform the High House of a number of issues that have been raised here. The question was: Why do you want to destroy Polish breeders of fur animals? I would like to inform you that the government in the area of the Animal Health Act did not undertake the work that was initiated in the Sejm team. We are not working towards amending laws in this area, we have not yet received a Parliamentary printing in order to take a government position. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that the whole government is taking a position, and that the Minister's opinion is only one element of this position. I'm asking you to be patient. It's time for everything. If the printing is directed to the government, then we will present such a position in time under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The allegations concerning African swine fever, the issue of fences are crazy. I remember that in 2008, when ASF appeared in Russia, we raised this issue so that the Polish country could be prepared so that this virus would not spread in Poland. And here, gentlemen, by handing over power, you left this virus behind. The fence should have been built in 2008, perhaps then this virus in the Podlaskie voivodship, in two counties, so that it would not be. [[Applause]] [[Why didn't you build it in 2016?]] And then you banned the reduction, then the Minister of Agriculture said that the reduction of boars is unnecessary because they're not a virus vector. And that's why you let and left this disease in Poland. [[That's not true.]] We have been fighting this for two years and we are fighting, we are taking a series of actions that lead to and will lead to the fact that this virus will not be present, even though new adverse events have emerged, which do not emerge from the lack of a fight against the virus. These phenomena are the result of the export of food by tourists from Ukraine or Belarus to Poland. Therefore, cases of ASF among wild boars appeared in the vicinity of Warsaw. I want to inform you that our actions are organized. I have already mentioned this in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. In the resort there is a team that performs tasks resulting from laws concerning among others. control of African swine fever virus. Let me remind you that these are EU law, national law, regulations. There is also an inter-ministerial team consisting of representatives of individual departments dealing with the tasks assigned by the Government Emergency Management Team in their respective areas. These tasks shall be carried out in an appropriate manner. Our bioinsurance activities in the area where there was and there is a threat have led to the fact that we have not had any major virus phenomenon in pig flocks for a year. [[104 fires. 70 this year.]] On the other hand, as a result of the decision of the Minister from your government, and then the lack - I say - of an organisation in Poland which would carry out the tasks of the Law of Hunting in a responsible manner, the population of boars in many areas has increased, although it should be reduced, which results from hunting plans. On the other hand, as you know, veterinarians also make decisions on health reduction issues, and this is what we do. Bioinsurance has led to the fact that African swine fever has not occurred at all in the farms where it is run, but we have also introduced a voluntary non-breeding programme where bioinsurance rules are not respected. These tasks are being carried out and I think that the way in which they are implemented, as well as the special act, which I hope will be adopted today by the Sejm, will minimise the risk of African swine fever. The lie repeated by the Polish People's Party about the lack of support for pig producers cannot defend itself, because it is enough to read the website of the Ministry on which these activities are described. Financial assistance to pig producers, e.g. interested in changing the direction of production to meat cattle production, it was already carried out in 2017 on the basis of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 23 February 2017 on the implementation by the Agency of the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture of the tasks related to the establishment of exceptional adjustment aid for milk producers and farmers in other farming sectors, which was included in the agricultural aid package proposed by the European Commission as early as July 2016. Already then we spent almost PLN 100 million. Since speaking time is limited, I am referring you to the website used by farmers. On their part, there is no objection to the Ministry. You just want to mislead the public on purpose, but I think it's going to... [[Minister, I need you to come to the agricultural committee meeting.]] ...you're not going to succeed or succeed. As regards supporting the development of agriculture, I really encourage you to read the programme of activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and the report on activities during the 2 years that have been passed on to the Marshal of the Sejm. I hope the committee or the Sejm will consider such information. There you can get to know and read about the actions that have been taken over these 2 years. As far as such a study is concerned, the Polish People's Party, which has managed agriculture in the last 27 years, at least 20 years, has presented its achievements and beneficial actions to the Polish village. As regards the question of the reduction of resources, there is some confusion, Mr President, because we had a point: Questions on current matters and Minister Zarudzki made clear Poland's position regarding the future shape of the common agricultural policy, the common financial framework. Our demands are clear. Gentlemen, in 2013 you agreed that instead of €21 billion Poland would receive 18.8 billion, or 2.5 billion less in this envelope that we deserved. And then you took that money from cohesion policy. This will now be difficult for us to negotiate, because instead of receiving 21 billion, as it was agreed in 2004, because this envelope was 3 billion, and then it was to be multiplied... The state, especially Prime Minister Tusk, wanted resources... [[But it's already been done. Secrets!]] ...from agricultural policy to cohesion policy and therefore we are at a very disadvantage, and I am not concealing negotiations, because this starting point should be 21 billion, and you have agreed to 18.8 billion. Here you have a question, and such a hypocritical question was, if the costs of agricultural production increase with the rise in energy prices. If this concerns the introduction of the so-called. the power market law, which aims to improve the functioning of the national electricity system and thus to reduce its operating costs, and it should be stressed that in the electricity bill the cost of generating energy amounts to around 30%. , on the basis of the farm accounting data network for the years 2014 to 2020 it is estimated that these costs are, as far as plant production is concerned, approx. 4.5% , gardening crops - 11,5% , and animal production - 9,2%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we do not adopt this law, as you are concerned, the lack of this instrument carries a serious risk of increasing energy costs and the need to import energy from other countries, because if RES at some point fails, then either we have a reserve that we can use, or we have to buy from other countries. So that, Mr Maliszewski, I would very much ask that you, however, address the arguments which are in line with the facts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u103	Thank you. Members of the debate have come forward. In this connection, I have a question: Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? If so, please, or I'll close the list. Therefore, I see that there are two more, please. I'm opening a discussion. And we will begin with the speech of Mr John Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u105	Excuse me. And in this situation, I'm closing the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The unbelievable right of opposition in democratic systems is to criticize the rulers. It's an important element of democracy that we defend like the pupils of the eye. Responsibility for rural and agricultural matters can also be criticized, but especially from those who have ruled for the last 8 years, and in the case of the Polish People's Party in subsequent coalitions for up to 16 years of the period of systemic transformation. These allegations must be very substantive, they must not be just an element, a tool for political warfare, unless only this is the role to be played. An example is the approach to African swine fever mentioned by the Minister. Truism is to say that if both wild boars and pigs had been eradicated in this small area that was at the beginning of the contaminated area, this problem would not have been, but perhaps lacked imagination, we might not have known how to fight against ASF either. Yesterday's discussion with the ASF specialist points to a split personality or, to put it simply, the problem of schizophrenia. On the one hand, he has been demanding a fence for a long time - I say in some simplification - to prevent the influx of sick animals into areas already cleared from ASF... [[Voice from the hall: This is your promise.]] ...and now the point of building this fence is being questioned, claiming that Jurgiel is buying himself a monument. The same goes for wild boars. It is said that these wild boars are a vector that needs to be eliminated practically to zero, and yesterday crocodiles were shed tears over the situation of wild boars in landscape parks and nature reserves, because they will unleash the ecosystem. So to me, it's some kind of [[♪ The bell ♪]] an example of schizophrenia. I have a very short question: How is agriculture in the policy of the state, in the strategy of responsible development of Prime Minister Moravian? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Kucharski, Civic Platform. I have a favor to ask. Let me remind you that time is two minutes, the total time of the whole debate is 90 minutes. If you extend your time, unfortunately, there will be no time for all Members. Therefore, Mr. Tomasz Kucharski, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Recent cases of ASF virus appear to prove that the current actions are not effective and expose Polish producers to huge losses. It is very strange and illogical to catch live boars and move them to other areas of Poland. This is what happened to 150 wild boars caught from the Legionov area and moved them to the Kozienicka Forest. The likelihood of ASF being transported to animals after the Legion's findings of wild boars on ASF is enormous. We see how flawed the Polish law is and how supervisory services could agree to this action, knowing that one of the vectors for the transmission of the ASF virus is the wild one. Why are you paying $1,000? PLN for caught wild boar, exposes Polish entrepreneurs to huge and long-term losses? Minister, did the government contribute to the lack of information between ministries to transfer the ASF over the Vistula line? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u109	Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u110	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the election campaign you spoke, Minister, how this Polish village under the rule of the PiS will develop beautifully. And indeed you carry out one of the main demands. What's the postulate's name? This is, of course, ASF. This is your only agricultural program. And you destroy Polish farmers and the agri-food industry. Minister Jurgel, please get to work. Because so far, you're in charge of filling positions in various companies and entities under your control. And, of course, reporting to the D.A.'s office on independent local government officials, and the ASF problem hasn't been dealt with until today. You haven't really done anything to solve this problem in two years. Minister, there were three ASF fires when you took office. Now how much is it? Over 104. There's nothing to hide that it's your fault. And the question is, what are you doing in this resort that the ASF is already on the other side of the Vistula? Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure you know the map, Minister. On this map you can see that ASF is already on the other side of the Vistula and has already attacked almost half of Poland. There was a debate on the specialty yesterday. Too bad you weren't here, Minister. We talked about this fence. You guys have a phobia about building fences. You want to fence the Seym. Now you want to fence the Polish-Belarusian and Polish-Ukrainian border. [[Wild people in the Seym showed up.]] But I would like to remind you again of this map - the ASF is already with us and more of this ASF from Belarus or Ukraine will not come. Minister, the question is: What are you really going to do with ASF, so ASF will decrease in our country and not go further west? [[♪ The bell ♪]] our country? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u111	Please, Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You just accused PSL of lying about ASF. I will ask you whether you listened to your boss, Prime Minister Morawiecki, who in the exposé he gave the day before yesterday, actually at the end of this exposé, a few sentences to agriculture or maybe to rural areas he devoted to, and in what a bit of a curiosity sounds, to the competition, that's what I call it - the answer in the contest, which means the abbreviation ASF. This really sounded crazy, because African swine fever is a disease collecting huge harvest and rapidly spreading in Poland. This should not be so disrespectful. Three years ago, and this is where I'm going to repeat myself, there were three fires, now there's 104, when it comes to breeders, breeding, and there's 700 of these wild boars. Until recently it was Eastern Poland, now it is behind the Vistula. Minister, I am a Member of the Lublin Voivodeship, where the tradition of breeding cattle is long and breeding is increasingly modern. But that means that there's monocultural breeding and huge expenditures, credits. This is a really huge problem and a spreading virus is a tragedy for many families, for many subregions. The Prime Minister stated yesterday, and I quote: That is why we will strengthen, implement such measures to reduce its dissemination. And that's where I'd like to ask, 'cause in that first statement, I didn't say anything. I didn't hear anything concrete, except, of course, politically speaking about the PSL that we are spreading a lie here. Stand up and tell the farmers what exactly, point by point, you intend to do as a government, as a ministry for these farms, for these breeders. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u113	Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Case The ASF is a matter, I think, very serious, and I have called from this platform many times, not to make a policy out of it. To my joy and amazement today, Mr Sawicki, former Minister of Agriculture in the PO-PSL government, also said that he was asking for more humility, state, and less shouting, and less pride in you. I think this is an appeal to everyone. Mr. Minister, under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, there have been a great deal in the media about crimes - crimes in the Arimr, crimes in the Agricultural Property Agency, in the Agricultural Market Agency, as far as producer groups are concerned. We had the tapes of Mr.... Maybe I won't say a name, but I think you know the tapes I'm talking about. [[Voice from Moravian Chamber.]] ...who talked about crimes in Elewarra. Minister, did these cases go to the D.A.'s office, and if they did, what stage are they at? Just so we know what crimes were under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. And Minister, I'm asking you to do one more thing. Find a little more time and stand here. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] on the speaker, and will tell these Members what has been done so far on the ASF, how much action has already been taken on the ASF. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[104 to 2, that's the result.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u115	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The staff of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture are reporting to our parliamentary offices. They complain that the IT system, the basic tool of their work, is still not functioning properly. Only thanks to the strenuous efforts of workers and their sense of responsibility can payments be made to farmers in a timely manner. There are cases of unlisted overtime, and there are overshoots in recorded overtime. I'm skipping the fact that 60% The agency's employees earn 2,000. net. In my last interview with the Minister, I made arguments in favour of raising my wages. I wanted to ask you why this computer system isn't working properly. The last two years have been sometimes increased assurances about modernising IT procedures related to Polish agriculture, and we are still at the stage here, Minister, the vans, so I will compare. Why is there no effort being made to improve the work of the system, which should be a priority? I just wanted to ask... This year Poles will pay a record high price for Christmas carp. In view of the inability of Minister Jurgiel and his Misiewicz to fight African swine fever, do we have equally record prices in the case of the Polish Schab for Easter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u117	Mr Kazimierz Stardowski... No, previously Mrs Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question from the farmers of Warmia and Mazury, I think very close to you, Deputy Minister Babalski. The first question concerns advances paid by ARiMR. The country in the agricultural programmes is informed that all farmers have received these advances. This is not true in the case of Warmia and Mazury. Many farmers, especially from Olsztyn County, call me with information that they have not received any advances. The second point is the level of advances for those farmers who have received them. The State has the option to pay up to 70% advance payments , whereas advances are paid at 3 This, of course, is far too low and farmers feel that these are apparent payments. The second question concerns the electoral promise. In 2015, the Minister undertook to address the very difficult challenge of doubling direct payments to farmers. I understand that this is a very difficult undertaking, but I would like to ask the Minister what he has done for this purpose... [[How's it going?]] ...what conversations have already been held. [[Who talked to them?]] What country could be an ally of Poland in this matter? And the third thing, the third question is Water Law. In July this year. We have adopted a law that will significantly raise the price of water, also for farmers. The bill is already passed, so the Minister probably has a simulation of how much production costs for Polish farmers will increase. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u119	This was Mrs Urszula Pasławska's speech from the Polish People's Party. And now Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first ASF outbreaks in Poland appeared in Podlasie, in February among feral pigs, in July among pigs. One of the first decisions taken by the government at that time was to cover an area too large, inadequate to the threat. The next decision that was made was to ban the complete killing of wild boars in this area. These decisions led to a significant increase in the population of wild boars, reaching about 290 thousand. pieces, while in 2000 it was only 185 thousand. Pieces. Such a huge increase in the number of boars caused the threat of this disease to increase. Minister, the government has issued several regulations on the bioinsurance of pigs in the last two years, several laws have been adopted. Therefore, I have the following questions: Do the bioinsurance programmes that have been implemented in vulnerable areas cause the virus to be reduced in these areas, and is there no return of this disease in these areas? According to the Minister, will bio-insurance programmes, especially the latter, be able to reduce this virus in the country? Did the increase in wild boar population in 2014 not contribute to the development of this disease? How many wild boars were shot down in 2016 and 2017? Has the wild boar population decreased in the last year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u121	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Hennig-Kloska, Modern. Mrs Hennig-Kloska, because Mr Aichler's speech is postponed at the request of Mr Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! In August this year. a new regulation of the Minister of Justice on the identification of items belonging to the farmer holding which cannot be subject to recovery has entered into force. Many banks funding farmers at the time, but also farmers themselves, pointed out that the fact that this regulation was amended and that a substantial extension of the catalogue of these items, which, as necessary for agricultural activities, cannot be recovered, would make it difficult for them to finance their business activities. It is natural - if the bank cannot claim its debts effectively in the event of the insolvency of the credit, it will not want to finance such activities for such activities, not for other collateral. And actually the banks recommended... they said they'd be forced not to extend some of the credit agreements, they'd be giving them to farmers. And the questions, because it's been a few months: does the ministry control, monitor the situation? What is the issue of finalisation - are these types of loans secured on the items to which the scope of the Regulation has been extended said or maintained by banks? And how much does this make it difficult to actually finance farming and farm in the countryside? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski from the Polish People's Party. I don't see your MP. In this connection, Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice. You're welcome. There's no... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Not at all, you are. He's here, he's here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In accordance with the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union from 1 October this year. production quotas in the sugar sector and the minimum buying-in price for sugar beet have ceased to apply. It can be expected that the abolition of quota sugar production will significantly increase competition between sugar producers in the European Union. Regulation on trade with non-EU countries will also change. Global competition in the sugar market between beet sugar and cane sugar will also be important. The financial situation in the coming season may be more difficult. There is a concern that a situation similar to that on the milk market may be repeated when milk quotas have been released - milk prices have fallen then - sugar beet may also fall. Minister, I therefore have a question: What action has the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development taken to support sugar market participants in the liquidation of production quotas in this market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u125	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, you've been sitting on a stool for two years, watching him, sticking to him and doing nothing. [[Voice from the room: He works hard.]] Do you remember 2014? You were chairman of the Agriculture Committee and demanded that the Minister of Agriculture of that time declare a natural disaster. Today we have 104 outbreaks, 700 cases of ASF disease among wild boars, and you do nothing. No, I'm sorry, you're doing this: you're calling in a lot of teams, components, resort teams, probably, and money goes to these teams too. And the farmers? And the farmers are in black... Well, you know where. [[Hole.]] In the hole. Minister, tell me, why don't you do anything about ASF? Nothing, really. Why are you afraid to come to the agricultural committee meeting to listen to the farmers who wanted to tell you a lot of things? Why don't you come to this committee and listen to what the farmers say? 'Cause what you said from the speaker today is embarrassing. This is embarrassing. And one more question. Mr Telus spoke about Elewarra, but he did not ask you the most important question. Now let me ask you this question: How many of your babies have you put in Elewarra? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Speaking of Elewarru, in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u127	Thank you very much. [[You're welcome, Minister, in writing regarding Elewarr.]] Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u128	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The Minister, presenting the situation in agriculture to us in response to Mr Maliszewski's speech, said that everything was very good, at least I understood that the situation was so calm, good, financial and economic side with regard to farmers is also optimistic. Nevertheless, Minister, it should be noted that elements such as the increase in production costs due to the area of electricity and water are beginning to appear on this wonderful horizon of optimism. It is difficult to predict that fertiliser prices will fall, that the prices of plant protection products and prices of various services will fall. The current situation is also worrying if we look at the balance in foreign trade. Mr Morawiecki in his exposé said that Polish products should be sold under the Polish brand. Perhaps the Minister would like to tell us a few sentences about this - what the government is going to do to implement it, implement it. I would also like to return to the situation in which Mr Telus was so expressively talking about Parliament's support in the area relating to the position in the negotiations on the doubling of subsidies, because, as I understand it, this is your electoral promise. And, Minister, once you have negotiated this, learn from the negotiations that concerned sugar quotas in 2005 and 2007. I just hope it doesn't end this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u129	Thank you very much. And another speech - Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u130	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Once again I take part in such a debate and practically, the names of ministers change, the problem changes, and the rhetoric of the opposition does not change completely. [[The Prime Minister has changed.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Paraphrasing the words that Lucjan Rydel's friends made in the poem, who was famous for his speech and vocabulary, I can say: The opposition talks, talks, talks, and snows, rains, rains. And none of this is coming out of your mouth. [[And Minister Jurgiel sleeps, sleeps, sleeps.]] Minister, I have a particular problem - I have a particular problem. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The first thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that to stop the spread of ASF... [[That's what you have to do.]] ...two things are required: the ministry's activity and the farmers' activity. I think farmers are so aware that they will show this activity. The Ministry is doing a lot to support farmers' efforts. [[Do you hear yourself?]] At this point, we have very concrete solutions for the bioinsurance programme, but the issue of actions that are included in the bioinsurance programme is the financial issue. There is a group of farmers who, in my opinion, will not be able to meet these requirements for financial reasons. And I have a specific question, Minister: What measures are being taken or are being taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to help pig owners who cannot adapt their farms to bioinsurance requirements? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You guys keep talking, keep talking. [[And you go to sleep.]] [[Minister to work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u131	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Literally half an hour ago I picked up the cup for 2nd place in Poland in the ranking of the best bets. [[Applause]] [[Congratulations.]] But it should be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u133	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u134	Thank you. [[But gold?]] But this team's joy is darkened by the axe around the neck of this plant, it's overshadowed by the ASF to which you have contributed, to which I would say a critical state. Today is a success, it took 20 years, but if you continue to organize your work as you have so far, Minister, I can see it in black. We're in fear right now, not just my companies, but most of all farmers, the best. After all, you are lucky as Minister because you have MEPs like Dorota Sunday, who is a veterinarian who is an outstanding specialist, but you do not listen to her, you have among others. Members who have contributed to the fact that they have been bankrupt... because they have created such a laurel. And you don't use them. All the proposals that we have given have been rejected, even the expert solution of the National Employers' Association of Pigs Manufacturers, which brings together around 25 and 30% production, too, went to the trash. I'm asking you why you're doing this. Like I said about the army, you said it was worth laughing at. You're gonna use it today. It's the only one that's unprepared. Minister, what am I supposed to say to my people when I'm in a bet and I give them a round of applause for this trophy? That there's going to be bankruptcy in a minute? That our minister [[♪ The bell ♪]] Doesn't work right? Excuse me, Minister, but I have to say this: huge, let's call it a spanking you should get for not checking what you're implementing, for not controlling the reality of the rules... [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u135	Thank you, sir. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u136	...which you're setting up. I'm sorry, Minister, but on a day like this, I have to say it. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u137	Thank you very much, sir, and congratulations again on the cup. And I would like to ask the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u138	Minister! High Izbo! Dear Members of the PiS! You shouldn't be nervous, you should be insulted, we don't blame you here, we just report the problems that farmers report to us. And these are serious problems, the situation is serious, you can see, because four ministers had to come. You can see there are so many problems and they're getting bigger. You can't, ladies and gentlemen -- you're in charge of two years -- go back to the apartment and say it's the fault. The Polish People's Party, really. [[Applause]] You've been in charge for two years. [[Voices from the O.R.: It's only been two years.]] When are you gonna take the blame? You guys are in charge. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Here's another thing. I'm afraid it may not be better, but it will be worse, because you're already doing reinsurance today, saying that there will be problems with the negotiations, because it's PSL's fault because they've set the wrong starting conditions. Gentlemen, you promised farmers a double, you haven't told them since, and now you're saying it's gonna be PSL's fault that bad terms will be negotiated. You're already in protective custody. ASF - well, we're doing a lot, we're going to present how much we've done, but the results are important. It's the result that counts, that's the most important thing. You can do nothing, and the effect can be. You do a lot, and the effect doesn't have any -- it doesn't have any effect. [[They'll come. Happy village.]] Another thing I want to say is insurance. No effect, 3 is less than 103. Is it smaller? Is it? [[Voice from the room: 4.]] Or 4? Or 104? Is it smaller? [[Speech outside the microphone]] Okay, you were two, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] There's so many of you that you could've caught all those wild boars. [[Applause]] Another thing. [[This is unprotectable, but the Member is trying.]] Look at the paradox. Since the adoption of the Farmers' Social Insurance Act, no one has dared to raise the retirement age. You did it. You guys did it, look. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Show me one person who's retired later. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No one's been through. You guys haven't been able to bring it in since January 1st. And that's your hypocrisy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u139	Thank you very much. Before Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice, please allow me to greet the young people of the Building School and General Education School in Braniewo. I wish you a pleasant trip and pleasure from visiting the Sejm. [[Applause]] Now, please take the floor of the Member... [[Game in the O.R.]] I have one request. Screaming at each other only causes you not to hear what the Member says at a given time. So let the Member speak, and when you speak, you will also be able to address these statements. [[Thank you, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! When I listened to the representative of the applicants, I think that, like most of this House, I had the impression that he had confused the titles of the information, because the right title should be: the cause of the worsening situation of PSL, not the situation in Polish agriculture. [[Applause]] The situation in Polish agriculture is definitely improving [[Joy in the Chamber]] and this is borne out by the hard data, for example, contained in the notice of the President of the CSO of 22 September 2017 on the average income from individual farms: from 1 ha of conversion in 2016 was PLN 2577 and for your governments, in 2015 - PLN 1975. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Nearly 600 PLN more only in the first year of the operation of Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel. [[But the butter was expensive.]] [[The voice from the hall: And the eggs are as expensive as they are.]] Further, according to a study of domestic budgets in the first half of 2017, the situation of all population groups, including the most farmers, whose real income increased by almost 37%. [[And the Member wanted to impose a fuel tax on the Polish village.]] Real disposable income in the group of farmers' households was the result of an increase in real income from individual farms by almost 50% and income from social benefits up to 138%. The increase in agricultural income also contributed to the increase in buying-in prices for main agricultural products: 26% milk, 21% cattle, 5% cattle, 7% wheat, etc., etc. The result is a 3.4% increase in cattle population , and the cattle by 4.5%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Comparison: June 2016 - June 2017
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u141	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u142	And I have one last question because it's never so good that it can't be better. [[Exactly.]] What new actions and initiatives...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u143	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u144	...are you planning a minister in 2018? Thank you very much. [[PSL polls are still available.]] [[Speech outside the microphone]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u145	Please, Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to draw attention to an important part of your activities and the entire department, namely the export of agri-food products. But to begin with, I wanted to quote a sentence that was written in the electoral programme of Law and Justice, which affected this issue. I quote: We have great unused commercial assets, e.g. Polish products are free from GMOs, Polish meat comes from production without ritual slaughter. End of quote. Therefore, I would like to add that the analytical materials prepared by the National Agricultural Support Centre show that the export of Polish beef is EUR 1100 million, and this export is possible thanks to the 2014 Constitutional Court decision on ritual slaughter. Therefore, I wanted to ask what the position of Law and Justice, the government towards the draft law, which was filed in the Sejm, is about the protection of animals and it is said that it is possible to go away from ritual slaughter in Poland. How does that relate to the whole thing? And secondly, I would also like to know what is the role of Polish representatives - agricultural advisers in diplomatic offices in Berlin, the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Poland in Brussels, Algeria, China, India and the United Arab Emirates. These are the materials that were written in the Ministry of Agriculture. I therefore ask what is the effectiveness of these representatives - agricultural advisers in embassies, as regards the directions indicated by the Ministry of Agriculture. What is cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To make those rules work to the end? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Commission... I'm sorry. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that we are very concerned about the situation of Polish agriculture, which probably never in recent history Poland wasn't that bad. Moreover, this situation is very bad, unfortunately we are also dealing with the total surrender of Minister Jurgiel in the fight for Polish agriculture. Minister, first thing - increasing production costs. You do absolutely nothing in a situation where your colleagues in the government raise taxes, make further laws that raise prices, which make these taxes grow, that more and more need to be paid into the budget. As a result, prices are rising, production costs are rising and you've capitulated. You do not fight for the interests of Polish agriculture at all. Second thing, ASF. I don't know if the Minister knows what a boar is. That's the kind of animal that walks through the woods and spreads the ASF around these woods. This is a very serious threat. I don't know if you're aware of that, but this disease is moving forward all the time, it's crossed the Vistula line. The State should therefore take appropriate action. Meanwhile, the only thing you do, what the PiS does in this situation, is organize further meetings, conferences - and these wild boars go through, move on and spread this disease throughout Poland. Minister, we need to stop discussing this and get to work. And the third thing. Will the payments be paid on time? Minister, you've failed in the last two years. There were delays, delays. I don't know if you've handled the IT system yet. If not, I suggest you get some good IT guys as soon as possible, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Get away from those computers and leave it to the specialists, let them do it, really. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u149	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u150	I would ask the Minister to respond to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u151	Thank you. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! First of all, a few corrections. The Minister is misleading the High House and the public, speaking of the budget we have negotiated from the European Union. He for Poland and for Polish agriculture is the largest in history. You lost the election process, you haven't apologized yet. We demand an immediate apology. [[Applause]] We demand and demand that you negotiate twice the budget for the common agricultural policy... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...because they're going to double the surcharges. Yes, sir. [[Promises have to be kept.]] It's a government, a new prime minister, a big deal. So when are they gonna double the surcharges? Please specify a specific date when Polish farmers will receive double payments. And please explain to Prime Minister Morawiecki, who spent very little time on agriculture in his exposé, but talking about the fact that you will strive to have a European average on subsidies in Poland... Minister, you know very well that we have just left you the European average on subsidies in Poland. You're gonna double it, and you're gonna double it right now. [[Applause]] First thing. The second thing is: CETA. How's the free trade agreement with Canada? When the Polish Parliament... When are we going to make a sovereign decision? We wanted to take it before the European Parliament. You guys didn't agree to that. GMOs from Canada will flow to Poland. When will our sovereignty be obtained? Will you give a separate opinion on the eradication of fur animals in Poland? Will you give a separate opinion at the Council of Ministers' meeting on the ban on traditional slaughter? What did you do... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, One of your fellow Members spoke well: you talk, you talk, you talk. Really, speaking of ASF, you're not able to replace the 104 fires you have today, the three that were in our day... [[Voice from the room: 3%.]] ...and say it's less. A little humility. It's Christmas. We kindly approach you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We wanted to help you with one bill, the other, today with a public hearing. Humility and work in the new year.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u154	Poland and Polish agriculture really need this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u155	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask you to follow the time, because there are still many Members, and we are running out of time for the debate. Please, Mr Mieczysław Mizga, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u156	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In the Podkarpackie Voivodship there are very good conditions for the development of milk and beef production, especially in the Bieszczad region. The local government of Podkarpackie Voivodeship has been taking and supporting initiatives to promote Podkarpackie beef for years, among others. program entitled "Podkarpacki natural grazing." The aim of the programme is to increase the cattle population. For this purpose, the voivodship spends over PLN 2 million a year. There are measurable effects of this action. I have a question. What is the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development doing for the development of the beef sector? [[Voice from the O.R.: None.]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Despite the overall economic situation, the situation in agriculture is bad, the material situation of farmers is constantly deteriorating, including. Because the policy of fighting the ASF under the direction of your deputy, the government's attorney for the fight against this disease, has simply gone bankrupt. But I will not criticize further, because there is a chance: in his exposé, Prime Minister Morawiecki changed the words of the toothbrush aid through all cases. You have a chance, Minister, because so far farmers from Podlasie, Lublin or - today - from Mazowsze could not count on generous help. Damages do not allow a change in the profile of farms, to cover commitments or to meet the screwed-up bioinsurance standards. Farmers receive compensation after many months. The same is true of compensation for the loss of future benefits, and yet you promised. So I have a question for you. Will you undertake to organize real help? Will it be possible to pay benefits to pig farmers in the African swine fever area? Is it possible to create government guarantees for banks that suspend the repayment of loans by pig producers? Is it possible to compensate [[♪ The bell ♪]] To the communities of loss...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u159	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u160	...in the budget income of the suspended tax? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u161	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u162	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question is a question about the development of the ASF invasion in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We see a geometric increase in cases here, and that is why I wanted to find out from the Minister if you could cite a model example of the fact that by trying to eliminate the population of boars this disease has been stopped because many cases have shown me that this is an ineffective method. You can't even get through an unfamiliar slaughter of wild boars to completely eliminate them and disable the risk of spreading the ASF just by the population of wild boars. It was recently introduced - about a month ago - such a regulation which requires the supply of pigs moved to the territory of the Republic of Poland with health certificates issued by an official veterinarian. On the basis of a clinical trial not earlier than 24 hours prior to transport, a pig or a specific flock may be accompanied by such a certificate. That is why I want to know what the cost issue of obtaining these certificates is, because here farmers also have to pay for, for example. the doctor's access to the test site of these individuals. Is it possible for the Ministry or in general the state budget to take over these costs? And of course, Minister, the additional question is why the Minister pays so little attention to the ASF problem, lobbies for the complete elimination of the wild boar population, which is ineffective in the fight against this disease, why these certificates have been introduced so late and why the Minister deals with, among others. reporting to the prosecutor's office on the presidents of cities, not real problems of Polish agriculture. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u163	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The consumption of tobacco in Poland is relatively constant. Despite the harmful use of tobacco, Poles producing tobacco should earn money. For many years in the grey zone, the tobacco trade has been in operation. Farmers are lost by producers, processing companies and the state budget. Has the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development taken action to reduce the spread of the grey zone in the circulation of unprocessed tobacco? And second question: How does the Ministry support tobacco growers to keep jobs in this sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u165	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On Sunday we had the opportunity to participate in the forum of the Mazovian Agricultural Chambers. The topics were difficult, but one was particularly difficult, especially for farmers whose crops still remain in the fields today, because they can't get in there with equipment, although we have equipment... [[Voice from the room: Minister of Wine.]] ...very good. [[It's the minister who's guilty.]] No. But wait for the question. So I have a question for you: When and who will develop... [[Voice from the room: When?]] ...a plan or a water management programme that will protect farmers during drought, but also during excess water? He must also be connected with river regulation, because water companies that are currently collecting contributions do not solve problems. Drainage work hasn't been in a long time. And I think this is the role of the state that should take on it. And the second question is: Do you foresee the Spanish option, which is total slaughter of pigs and rebuilding them again in connection with the spread of ASF? And does the Ministry wish this for our agriculture? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u167	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm sure you'll register in history as the person responsible for the spread of the ASF virus. A 35-fold increase in the number of outbreaks of this virus is probably unbeatable. But I have to say, you're also very good at implementing the food+ programme, or actually food- because we're going to buy a lot less food products for the same amount now. For example, milk prices increased by 1/4, butter - by 70%, egg prices increased by 50%. I've filed an interrogation with the Minister on this matter. Surprisingly, I must say that I have received such a reply that the increase in prices is a higher revenue both from domestic sales but also in trade on foreign markets. Farmers are also benefitting from the current situation by increasing buying-in prices, thus improving the financial situation of their farms. As I asked, of course, on behalf of consumers who have to pay much more for these products, but also, I have to say, I have checked it out, and it is not true that all this price increase translates into an increase in buying-in prices. Increase in milk prices e.g. It's about 20%. The difference is fundamental. Minister, as part of the government policy that you are running, if you want to increase the prices of food products over the next two years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'll start by saying that unlike most people who speak here, I'm from the village. I own a farm - small but agricultural. And I'm going to start by saying that I want to thank Mr. Krzysztof very warmly... [[To ASF.]] ... Jurgel, the minister of agriculture, and the entire ministry... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...for what he does in the field of agriculture. [[Voice from the Chamber: Farmers' MEPs.]] Yes, Minister, the farmers thank you. Your commitment... [[May I?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...it didn't show up until you became Minister of Agriculture, because you're the farmer's business, the agricultural business... [[It's widely known.]] Yes... [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] ...is widely known. As a fellow MP... [[Voice from the room: The chairman was.]] ...the issues of agriculture were translated above all else and often in our club he fought these topics which should be presented at the Sejm meeting. I know that you have prepared, the Ministry has recently prepared a rural pact. Minister, when will this pact come into force? Speaking of these preparations, I wanted to ask you about those actions that have already entered into force. How do you assess the actions of the National Agricultural Support Centre? This is all meant to serve farmers. Your actions are intended to serve farmers, but they also serve the entire Polish economy. As president of the Polish-Kazakh Group, I saw your commitment to signing international contracts. Therefore, my next question about the ministry's activities. I wanted to ask you about the situation in foreign trade in agri-food products. As I said, there are successes in the field of Poland - Kazakhstan, but these are not the only successes. And thank you again for all this. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] [[Voice from the gym: You got it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You can't stop yourself from saying that. Long live the king! Long live the king! Long live the king! And bravo! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Boo-boo, Hawk wouldn't be ashamed.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So, yeah, I live in the country. I grew up on a farm. I work with farmers. [[Voice from the room: Are they happy?]] I'm a family doctor, 90% My population is farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, they have a very different opinion than just heard here. [[Voice from the hall: Warsaw?]] I wanted to say to the Minister that I am surprised by your comments, because even some of the questions you have already asked, especially in terms of energy. Nobody's asked them yet. I was gonna ask them. But okay, I understand you've read these needs and questions before. However, I think you haven't been to the country in a long time, at a real meeting with farmers, at a social meeting where they would tell you how dramatic the situation is. [[This Sunday.]] For two years, your governments are at least a few months behind on direct payments, the increase in OC for farmers, now the threat of an increase in electricity costs. [[Voice from the room: Threat, threat.]] We'll pay for your imaginary safe power. [[Because the power is with us.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The numbers of the Central Statistical Office were quoted here on how well it is living in the countryside, how income has increased. Only you do not know that today the price of pork is under 4 zlotys, and just a year ago it was almost 6 zlotys. Whose credit is this? The ministry, which now smiles so nicely, which it will have, as was the Prime Minister of this government 27:1, entered 3:104. [[If you guys were in charge, it was three zlotys. Remember that.]] And if you keep doing that, it's probably not 104, it's the Spanish version: we'll slaughter the entire population and buy pigs in China. Ladies and gentlemen, to work, and these glories take it for a few. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Divide. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Law and Justice. [[The doctor with the sick is talking.]] [[Voice from the room: Not with the healthy.]] [[What a joke, really.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Some, especially with PSL, have forgotten that twice the perspective... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Sick farmers are worse farmers?]] Stop it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u175	I'm asking you to calm down. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Member insults Polish farmers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u176	...the budget negotiations. First of all, the first one, 2006-2013...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u177	Excuse me, gentlemen. Cuba... [[Shame!]] [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u178	...then two times 2006 and 2013 and the next perspective, these agricultural matters. It's not just the average you didn't get. As a farmer, I can say that in the first one I reached up to 1100 zloty per hectare, and now up to 850 zlotys. So what's the European average? Tell me. Now you're saying we promised twice. The negotiations of the next budgetary perspective will only start and then we will see how much we will achieve and not immediately say: you have not achieved. Not only have you not achieved this, but for rural development you have achieved a few billion less, i.e. rural areas such as Braniewo, from which you are, have much less money for their development. Minister! I have a question about the Russian embargo. What are you planning and what are you planning for the Ministry in this regard? The point is that Polish farmers or those who trade will achieve what they lose back. Answer that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I brought so much because you weren't here yesterday. I am very pleased that the Minister draws a handful from the knowledge of many people, only that all the information that is in the reports of your teams has lost to one wild one with one wild one. [[Voice from the room: two, two wild.]] What I'm saying is that your resorting wars with Minister Szyszka led you to believe that you were unable to reduce the number of boars. Moreover, Mr Telus fought very hard here in May of that year... Let me remind you of this bill. In this bill, the Minister agreed, you promised Polish farmers hunting compensation, a hunting fund. At the moment, the environment committee has eliminated everything. You lied to the farmers, you lied about the new rules for payment of farm compensation. There's nothing. Minister! Now let's be specific. What's the biggest threat? I'll tell you what's in danger. The beef market, the pigmeat market, the poultry market. The poultry market inhibited by infectious disease such as avian influenza. We can send poultry exports there for almost 1 billion. The pork market is stalled. You promised to open up Chinese markets. Chinese markets are closed and will be closed for poultry and pork because you can't handle wild boars and ASF, with a small virus. You'll go down in history as a minister who, first of all, eliminated Arabian horse breeding... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...and spread, caused an outbreak of African swine fever in Poland. And that's what you're gonna do. Polish exports are EUR 15 billion, 80% of which goes to the European Union. 20% They're taking Germany from us, and you're fighting the Germans, first of all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] 21% our exports are only meat and their products, please take care of them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u181	Thank you very much, Member. The last question, because we have run out of time, will be asked today by Mr Lech Kołakowski, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the courtroom: There are three more left, Marshal.]] If there were three people, we still have... [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]] This is the next person, Mrs Bożena Kamińska finishes. [[No, no, PiS deserves it.]] [[Voice from the room: How does the PiS deserve it?]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no Member. I give the floor to the Minister. Excuse me, the first Member of the applicant. You're welcome. [[Room voice: Robert, what did you do?]] [[Voice from the room: You stopped the discussion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to thank you very much for this debate, especially those who asked questions, because we managed to bring up a lot of issues concerning Polish farmers and show them, because I could not do it in these 5 minutes because of the short time, all these irregularities or mistakes that are made in agricultural policy. I don't want this debate to be a debate between two people. I also don't want to talk about the Minister's qualities or criticize him. I just want to say, Minister, that you have accused me of not really, and I have all the information I have provided today, all the information that I have provided, in support of the motion for mistrust, I have drawn from the materials of the Ministry of Agriculture, the agencies under your authority, from the experts' opinions, from the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, from the votes of the farmers that were recorded at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. The ASF should not really be a political topic, but let those who, in 2014, in 2015 - I look this way - strike in the breasts - on this speaker were restrained in these matters. They screamed, they said, they had ideas, they presented ideas, but also you, Minister, said to Minister Sawicki or Minister Kalemba that those actions that they proposed in the first phase of ASF's development were too strict, they should not be such that the risks are exaggerated, so they would have to be loosened. Besides, as I'm analyzing the ASF problem and what the agricultural department says about it, where they're looking for the guilty, I find he's a few guilty people. First of all, I have even heard such an opinion that the border established in 1945 or a little earlier, between Poland and the Soviet Union, because if it were different, the ASF would probably not have come to us. Okay, these are the ones you're gonna blame for. Later it was said about Minister Sawicki, Minister Kalembie, that they had not mastered the situation. I have just quoted your statement from this period, and these quotations could be more, but time does not allow it. Later, veterinarians, who were involved in some diversionary activity, did not allow them to effectively combat ASF. They're already mostly listed or submissive. Later, they were guilty of farmers who were supposedly exaggerating the problem, organizing protests, even accusing them of either paying protests or taking 30 zlotys, and the point is to exaggerate the ASF problem. I do not know if those farmers who protested in 2015 are more popular than those present. It is those from 2015 who already announce that they will come out in a star march to Warsaw and under the Ministry of Agriculture, so they will probably be angry by now. On the way there were hunters who didn't want to shoot boars, and they wanted to shoot boars. Contact the hunting circles in Mazowsze, which today do not know what to do and stop wild boars from being shot, because they do not know what cold store they are supposed to take the carcasses to, who is to pay for the guts needed to examine what period must pass until they can manage the wild boar and whether they will get any money for it. Most of the hunting circles stopped the shooting. It shows the atmosphere around ASF. Recently, I heard that it was NIK, the Supreme Auditorium is probably guilty because she prepared a biased report, a political report, which the author had just heard in the voices of farmers who were talking about the mess in the ASF case. Probably if the President of NIK had been changed earlier, he would have presented the data that Mr Dolata quoted from the CUS. However, when you read the data of the CUS, you also have to understand, do not confuse columns with lines, just read exactly what is. The available money for farmers does not come from higher prices for agricultural products sold. You have to see a column next door or a table next door which says, if the debt of farmers has increased during this time, and it is much higher than the increase in the available funds, because it is complemented by a loan, which is already in many aspects in the countryside a common phenomenon today. [[Voice from the room: Investing.]] They're investing a lot. There is also a very precise indicator of investments, especially from the Rural Development Programme, where most of the actions are not operational at all or are required to do so, for example. Young farmers do not reach for these resources, and the agency announces more calls because there is no willingness to take this money because the farmers do not meet the requirements that you have prepared. There wasn't much time to move all the threads. I'll move two more. First of all, insurance. In the spring of this year, or maybe a year ago, it was said that there would be a record amount of aid for agricultural insurance and that farmers would finally be able to cover their crops. 900 million PLN was. What it looked like in a year, we all know. Late insurance companies, inability to enter into policies, early frosts, farmers not insured to this day have not received this compensation or exceptional aid. Actually, it's not about $2,000. zł per 1 ha only about 1 thousand. Most of these farmers did not receive aid. And what happened to the funds, the 900 million zlotys? The analysis in a few months' time this year, in seven months' time, says that less than 200 million were used out of this 900 million. So it will go back to the budget because you gave such a proposal to the Insurance Act that insurance companies, despite the increase in state subsidies, prepared such policies for farmers that they physically could not afford to sign a contract, and the crops are still uninsured. Same with the help. Here is a specific question, Minister: When will there be aid for those who have suffered losses on their farms for which this aid was to be activated? I don't want to torture myself again or paraphrase the quotes that were here, but as a lively head [[♪ The bell ♪]] The words come from one of the Members who said that the opposition talks, talks, so paraphrasing this quote: Minister talks, talks, talks, wild boars with ASF all the time rains, rains, rains, these boars are 700. These boars are about as much as you've prepared the documents to fight the ASF. They're as effective as the wild ones. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u183	Thank you very much, sir. The formal proposal was made by Mr Michał Cieślak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to make a formal request to extend the meeting by 10 minutes on this item due to the seriousness of the subject and the long list of those who joined the discussion. I'm justifying my conclusion. This is a proposal concerning the deteriorating situation in Polish agriculture, made by the Polish People's Party, PSL, i.e. representatives of the former Minister of Agriculture, for which milk cost 80 gr, and today, for this Minister, it costs 1.50 PLN. [[Your Marshal, is that a statement?]] Pigs, the living man reached 80 gr, 2.50 zł, 3 zł per 1 kg live. Today it is PLN 5.6 Apples for serving you from the Polish People's Party cost 0,80 PLN, and today - 2 PLN, 3 PLN. [[Voice from the Chamber: That's history, Mr. President.]] Cereals under the government of the PSL-PO state were used for burning in kilns, because it cost less than 250 PLN, as much as it had. [[Your Marshal, that's not a justification.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u185	Dear Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u186	Today's average price... [[Mr President, you are overreacting to the formal proposal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u187	Dear Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u188	...that's 600.800 zł.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u189	Sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u190	And one last remark. According to Eurostat, 38 countries in Poland have the cheapest food for consumers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[This is not a formal conclusion. You lied, you lied.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u191	Thank you, sir. I will not take this formal proposal into account because it is quite precisely defined in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm what the current information looks like. I know it's important, but we're not changing the rules of the Sejm. If you wish, you can put a question in writing. I ask Minister Jurgel to answer his questions. [[But you're happy because you played the marshal?]] [[Voice from the hall: How many times have you guys been nodding?]] [[We don't nod, it's a debate technique.]] I am very sorry, but if you are not interested in this debate, please leave the room.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to appeal to the honor of the Polish People's Party, if it has honor... [[Voice from the room: They don't.]] ...to give Mr. Kosiniak-Kamish an indication of a statement or a place where it is written that we were to double the surcharges. Don't lie to me, gentlemen, because that's not the kind of statement you've made. If you're honorable, don't say it again. The second thing about retirement age is that you raised it to 67 years. You're lying about that, too. [[Voice from the room: Who passed?]] I will say first, because here was the economic situation, that there is a report by the Institute for Economic Development of the School of Economics. This is published in the previous day's Rzeczpospolita. One sentence is enough: According to the Institute for Economic Development of the School of Economics, in the second quarter of 2017 the economic situation in Polish agriculture improved again. This is the fifth quarter in a row of positive trends. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I don't think this is our institute. It is an institute of the Warsaw School of Commerce, which has the right brand. You didn't mention land today, because I think you've already had some conversations, meetings with the farmers convinced you... [[There wasn't enough time.]] ...that this bill, which we adopted a year and a half ago, is supported in the Polish countryside. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Why are you updating it?]] And there's proof of that, too, because in the Internet Business portal - it's probably a portal connected to the Platform, at least with liberals - what are the titles? The land market is back to normal. [[What portal, Minister?]] It's called "Interia Business." [[But it was one of your deputies who posted it.]] Speculative investors pushed out of the market. These are the titles in the portals that... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[It's a sponsored article.]] [[Minister Babalski probably posted it.]] Third thing, we've prepared a table for the number of boars and the reduction. In 2014 and 2015 there were 258 thousand. Today's 198. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Maybe you'll listen to the farmers.]] So that the reduction is implemented. Now I'm going to answer some questions, because time isn't much and it wouldn't be enough to answer all of them. Here's what I'm gonna say: you have to realize... Anyway, if anyone's interested, this is a 2-year-old activity report, I told you, sent to the Sejm. All activities are described. I encourage you to read and write interpellations if someone disagrees with these records. Alternatively, we can discuss this at a committee meeting or the Sejm. [[Can you give us that report?]] [[Voice from the hall: In the Seym there is.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: On page.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] For the Minister, you're welcome. [[Thank you.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not distract the Minister.]] [[Voice from the room: It's a gesture. Learn.]] Now, the more important things. I would like to say that we have, ladies and gentlemen, a clear policy. I was talking about land, we stopped speculation. Those who were associated with the previous power are already holding this land. I don't know when they're gonna sell it. poles, unless there are changes. [[I hear there's no poles. That's what you wrote to me in the interpellation.]] Second thing, change the rules of development policy. You have to be really programmed, not the kind of plugs you're using here. It's not right, not even in Parliament. This was mentioned by Mr Ardanowski - the Responsible Development Strategy adopted - the government adopted sustainable and sustainable development. All responsibility for the development of Polish agriculture is accepted by the government for the first time. This is, of course, reflected in strategic projects, strategies for responsible development and also in the Rural Pact, which we will present for consultation at the beginning of the year. The Pact is the result of the whole development policy. It will contain instruments that are in the S.R. These instruments are within the framework of the common agricultural policy under national instruments. It's already been mentioned here. A Communication on the CAP has been announced in advance. There is already another principle of development programming. A strategic plan will have to be drawn up for the use of resources under the common agricultural policy, but this cannot be started before. We will start as soon as a legislative package is in place setting out the rules for drawing up such documents. As far as Mrs. Navel is concerned, I don't think there is, but I will answer, an IT system, ladies and gentlemen, there is an agreement concluded in 2016. The deal's done. Although you have raised doubts that there will be no payments for 2016, as you know, they have been paid. You said that there would be no subsidies and advances for 2017, but, as you know, the applications have already been accepted, the completeness has been examined and 70% advance payments have been made for the second time in a row, which was not the case for the governments of PO and PSL. [[There was no agreement from the Union.]] There's a minimum percentage of unpaid payments, but it's in every action where there has to be control or decision-making has to be completed, there's no... Almost 100%, on the other hand. advances are paid everywhere. I was talking about doubling the payments. Once again, gentlemen, show me proof that someone from the PiS has spoken of this. Really, be honorable. [[Okay, it's done.]] With regard to the bioinsurance programme that Mr Starzdowski referred to, the programme led to the fact that there were no more outbreaks in the areas where the ASF was or was in pig farming. The programme has fulfilled its task and for a year there has been no more virus or ASF cases in pig farming in those areas. As for the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that it appeared in the vicinity of Warsaw, there are two possibilities: either intentional action, which is examined by the appropriate authorities - such a thing is happening or it will - or the food that is imported from Ukraine is important here. Someone here said you didn't work here. It works, there's an interministerial team, otherwise there can't be. All services in Poland are involved in the eradication of African swine fever. [[Effects!]] In this case we are talking about the Border Guard, customs services which receive food at the Polish-Ukrainian border, it is realized. [[And it's snowing, it's raining, it's raining...]] As far as sugar is concerned - Mrs Krynick asked - we know that the quotas have been abolished, but in order to improve the sale of Polish sugar, we have launched in Gdańsk the construction of a terminal for PLN 100 million, where it will be possible to charge 300 t. I think in a year such a terminal will be built. This will certainly improve the situation when it comes to the Polish sugar market, it will be possible to export it. Mr. Dunin demands a natural disaster. A natural disaster occurs where the relevant authorities do not act or emergency measures are needed. Our services work: and the police, and the army, and traffic checks, veterinarys. At the head of these local or voivodship staffs are voivodships, who have appropriate competences within the framework of administrative teaming. It is not true what Mrs Niedziela, who is to be Minister in the future, said about avian influenza. I think you forgot, but Poland was released from avian influenza in July. [[I said the export wasn't started because it wasn't.]] It's started, it's exported to China, and we export apples to China. Next case... [[What about Elewarr?]] As far as Elewarr is concerned, let me tell you this: This is another lie - some newspapers have already asked about it - because neither there nor anywhere there is any family of mine. Gentlemen, Mr Dunin, let us at least be a little honorable. I personally... [[Game in the O.R.]] No, gentlemen, you know, let's not really point out something that doesn't exist, we don't tell lies. I don't jump out to anybody by name, I don't point to anybody, although it's clear that Mr. Creamman took money for nothing in Elewarra, there was a specially created position, and the prosecution is conducting proceedings in this area. For 2 years Elewarr has been profitable, and please see the 2013 or 2012 balance sheets - losses. Now he's making a profit. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Shame on you, Dunin.]] So I would advise if you have proof that someone has hired a family member, please... But don't lie to me, because it's really sad. [[No, no, hit your chest, see who's actually working there in this Elena.]] As far as Mr. Kamysz is concerned, and the doubling of the payments, that's what I've been talking about. Customs business. After all, it was the coalition that approved this agreement with Canada in 2014. We report this, it is in documents prepared for the Council of Ministers of the European Union, it is about protecting the Polish market, especially against sensitive products. Tobacco. This is a very important matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Previously, when I was chairman of the committee, you remember, we worked together here, even Mr Dunin supported these actions in Poland. [[Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, ……]] Tobacco has launched new bets in Augustów. We've negotiated, that's where almost 400 new people will work. We have negotiated with foreign factories so that tobacco is bought from Polish plants. There are declarations, agreements... maybe not agreements, but agreements in this area. We have restored what PSL has eliminated: the registration of the tobacco fields, which is to stop the gray zone. Now the National Agricultural Support Centre will register all tobacco plantations and then until the processing point will still be controlled. The revenue will increase by several billion zlotys due to taxes. Mrs Bartus asked about the rural pact. We'll introduce him at the beginning of January. It is not all up to us, because the pact also includes actions resulting from sectoral programmes of individual ministries. These sectoral programmes have nine, and in these programmes are compact actions on agriculture, rural areas. I would also like to ask the Committee on Agriculture to consider a number of issues to include on the agenda the way agriculture and rural areas are included in other sectoral programmes. This discussion should take place in committee. As usual, Mrs. Gądek is telling the wrong truth. There was no delay when it came to subsidies. Within those deadlines which were foreseen, they were paid. As far as the Russian embargo is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, exports are no smaller than they were. You can't talk about it too much, but it's not bad. On the other hand, we have made diversification of markets. An active policy in this area has led us to sign an agreement with Iraq. We want to go back to the amount of exports that took place in the '70s.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u193	Minister, I want you to go to the end of your speech because I've already extended my time. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: I'm just gonna answer your question on Sunday. Don't worry about those Arabian horses. You have led to the fact that this breeding was almost destroyed in Poland. We'll report back in December. Professor Olsztyn, I don't remember the name, he made it clear that this was just the first government that wanted to take care of the proper breeding of horses. [[He's your professor.]] In your day, horses were raised, not bred, and that's the difference. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[What about ritual slaughter, Minister? A lie can't be peaceful.]] Thank you very much. [[Correct, Marshal.]] This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u194	The presence of African swine fever virus was found in Poland in February 2014. It is well known that in the fight against ASF it is crucial to take preventive action, which unfortunately was missing when the Ministry of Agriculture led PSL. Anything to say - if PO-PSL were to effectively eliminate these small outbreaks that Members of these groups are talking about today, and if appropriate preventive measures were to be taken, we would not have a problem with ASF today. Since the onset of this disease in Poland, further cases of ASF have been reported in wild boars - it is known that they are the main vector for the transmission of this disease. The previous ASF outbreaks were detected in Podlaskie, Lublin and Mazowieckie voivodships. The virus is approaching the borders of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, one of the main pig breeding centres in Poland, hence I kindly ask the Minister to answer the question: What is the current situation regarding ASF in Poland? What measures have been taken to stop the spread of the virus?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u195	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The problems in agriculture, smaller or bigger, have always been as long as I can remember. I'm a farmer's daughter. The Polish farmer has always tried to cope with his own family. The most important thing is to tell him the truth. I hope that's how the Minister of Agriculture does it today. He's changed positively in the last two years. What is the situation on the agricultural markets, especially on the milk and pigmeat markets? And my second question. Following the obligation to conclude contracts for the supply of agricultural products resulting from the implementation of Regulation No 1308/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council 2013 in terms of establishing appropriate contractual relations, will there not be an indirect burden on the farmer at the expense of keeping records by the recipients?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Poland, about l300,000 crops are cultivated. agricultural producers who grow cereals on an area of approximately 7.6 million ha. Although cereal harvests have increased in recent years - in 2016 they were about 5% higher since the previous year, including by around 8% since 2016, but not only the yield but also the conditions of management and prices affect the achievable income of producers, are a very important condition for this activity. Hence the question: What action is being taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in favour of national cereal producers in order to improve their management conditions and increase their income? Does the Ministry have any strategy in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u197	We've been struggling with ASF for three years now, and we've been struggling with ASF for less than a year now. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki saw this serious problem yesterday and raised it in his exposé. The special act adopted by the Council of Ministers on 5 December, which introduces a number of solutions to facilitate the fight against ASF, is most appropriate, but isn't it a little late for border sealing? I cannot fail to mention that the work on the specialty started only when the ASF virus crossed the Vistula line, but in Lublin voivodeship it has been harvesting for more than half a year, putting farmers against the wall because of too restrictive regulations that they must comply with. A large proportion of the farmers in the Bial district still have not been compensated for their art, and the sale of the flock is still at the lowest prices, even in the blue zone. I therefore ask the following questions: Why, the city of Międzyrzec Podlaski was not included in the co-financing zone, even though the municipality is in this zone? Can smaller farms with less than 300 units count on no compensation as a result? Why did compensation in the district of Radzyński cover only July and August, since the ban on meat sales was valid for 3 months? Why do farmers wait so long for the results of blood tests for ASF virus because more than a week? Is it possible to accelerate the sampling process? Will farmers be paid compensation and compensation for selling live animals at the lowest prices in the market?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u198	In order to strengthen the market position of agricultural producers, it is important to organise the economy of farmers. The creation of producer groups of different legal forms is characteristic for the agriculture of Western European countries. Given the strong sense of individual activity of Polish farmers and bad experiences with rural cooperatives during the communism period, stereotypes must be broken and good examples of cooperation on the market should be shown, strengthening the position of producers in the chain from field to table. What action is the MRiRW taking to organise farmers? What forms of support is the resort planning to encourage farmers to cooperate?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u199	ASF disease occurred in Poland in February 2014. Since then, many outbreaks of this disease have been detected in Podlaskie, Lublin and Mazowieckie voivodships. There have also been a number of cases of ASF in wild boars, and sometimes one case means several dead boars. The disease is harmless to humans, but it brings both significant economic losses for pig production and serious restrictions on the production and sale of meat products. A few months ago, the Ministry of Agriculture reported that the results of legal and environmental studies on the construction of a fence at the Polish-Belarusian border with a length of 729 km will soon be known. In this way, the resort wanted to prevent the migration of wild boars that were infected with the ASF virus. Previous studies showed that African swine fever appeared in Poland just because of wild boars that came to our country from Belarus or perhaps from Ukraine. The financial resources needed to implement this investment have already been provided. The estimated investment costs are almost PLN 130 million. Minister, what is the fate of this initiative? Is this idea still in the circle of interest?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u200	Prime Minister Beata Szydło signed a resolution on 28 August 2017 on the establishment of an aid scheme for farmers and agricultural producers who suffered damage on agricultural holdings or special agricultural production departments due to a hurricane, hail or rain in August 2017. The implementation of this programme was entrusted by the Prime Minister to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. rural development. I would like to ask: What measures have been secured to implement this aid? What does cooperation with local authorities look like in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u201	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Over the past two years, the profitability of agricultural production has improved. In what areas of agricultural production has there been a clear improvement in profitability? Please provide benchmarks for the last 5 years. The Government of Law and Justice, through the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, has increased the activity of agricultural policy on world markets. In what areas was this increased global market activity particularly visible, and what countries did it involve? The government has stimulated the development of major agricultural markets. Which agricultural markets have particularly achieved good development indicators? How many laws have the agricultural ministry prepared in the last two years? What is the importance for agriculture of the agricultural laws adopted by the Sejm? What action has the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development taken on plant protection products?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u202	The difficult situation in the vegetable and fruit market is no secret. What are their prices this season, everyone sees. We know the reason. Especially when it comes to sadization, difficulties arise from the spring wave of frosts and hailstorms in various regions of the country which caused huge crop losses. So I have a question. What action is being taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in view of this difficult situation in the fruit and vegetable market?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u203	I'm asking for peace in the court if I may. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Waste Act and certain other laws (prints Nos 2096 and 2103). I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees propose the adoption of the Senate amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u205	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[Game in the O.R.]] Please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is part of the Waste Act, which aims to seal the entire system. The whole bill was made up of two parts. Part of this was the implementation of EU law, and the second part was legislation that would allow environmental inspections to comply more closely with environmental standards. This passage, this amendment proposed by the Senate, concerns the Marshal's decision on the so-called. products or substances considered as by-products. Sometimes, however, these by-products become dangerous substances. Then there is an environmental problem for people who live near such establishments. We have such a problem in Szczecin, where one company uses dust with varnish and other smoking substances, because it was considered a by-product. So far, the marshal, without taking any action, actually agreed that these substances or objects should be considered as by-products. Relax, they could have been further processed. The senators considered it necessary, however, to have some kind of control, including from environmental inspections. Therefore, in the proposed amendment, the Senators propose that the Marshal, in agreement with the Regional Environmental Inspector, grant permission to classify these substances or objects as by-products. If it does not, it will mean that then such a product will not be able to be a by-product and will be a dangerous product, it will be subject to specific standards. Of course, the entrepreneur will be able to appeal against such decisions. The second instance will be the Minister for Environmental Protection. So that there is no period during which they will immediately lose the validity of the existing permits issued by the marshal, often on the basis of this so-called. There is a six-month transitional period during which all parties interested in obtaining the status of a by-product may apply to the marshal, because he will be the administrative body which will issue the decisions to consider this substance or object as a by-product. There would seem to be no doubt about this amendment, but some of the energy sector is commenting on the procedure itself and the moment at which these solutions will be implemented. There are doubts as to whether all the provisions proposed by the senators in administrative practice will meet the objectives pursued. In general, however, the idea of the Senate was to protect the environment, among others. air, of which the Prime Minister also spoke [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the course of his exposé. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u207	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u208	Mrs. Marshal! This is the position concerning the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. The amendment of this law was due to the need to implement the European Union's rules into Polish legislation as soon as possible. The draft amendment to the Act describes in detail the criteria for the classification of waste as hazardous depending on the content of hazardous substances in the relevant hazard classes. There are also provisions for the transport of hazardous waste. It has been clarified that if hazardous waste constitutes dangerous goods within the meaning of the Act, the provisions of that Law apply to their transport. On the other hand, the transport of waste not classified as dangerous goods will be subject to the Waste Act. More extensive changes are planned in the field of waste records in order to strengthen control, in particular control of the flow of municipal waste received from residents and transferred to use. A new registration document - a transfer sheet for municipal waste is envisaged. This card will be drawn up by the recipient of municipal waste from the owners of the property separately for each batch of waste. In addition to the standard information on the holder and the recipient of the waste and the weight and type of waste, the name of the municipality and the area from which the waste was collected will also need to be provided. The waste stream monitoring tool will be the waste database to be set up by 1 January 2019. From 1 January 2020, the obligation to keep records of waste and to report electronically is envisaged. In practice, it will appear that each waste holder will be required to keep their records and report on waste management. For this purpose, you will have to apply for registration in the Marshal of the Voivodship within 6 months from the date of creation of the register. In general, it is a law which, I hope, will have the effect that this system will simply be more sealed. The waste will not land in different places for this purpose. Such a newest case in general is Świnna Poręba, where in the newly formed flood there are already tons of waste being collected from the surrounding villages. So, in general, the Senate here has actually introduced some amendments which are aimed, as the rapporteur said, at improving both air and environment quality, and should therefore be supported. And that's what we're gonna do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u209	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Waste Act. This Senate amendment is good. It seals the waste collection system by clarifying the procedure for the recognition of an object or substance as a by-product, indicating that this is done by means of an administrative decision issued by the Marshal of the voivodship after agreement with the Provincial Environmental Inspector. It is important that the decision is administrative in this respect, because so-called. The silent consent of the marshal in force in the current procedure allowed for the recognition as a by-product of hazardous waste which could then be processed without complying with environmental requirements. This put people's lives and health at risk. The amendment shall indicate the determining institution at second instance. It will be the Minister of Environment. On this occasion, I would also like to mention the amendments that we tabled as Kukiz.15 to this law. I remind you that none of them were rejected for substantive reasons - they would also seal the system - and they were rejected only because we reported them as Kukiz.15 I hope that the Ministry of the Environment, which has been quite positive about them, will accept them and present them in the next amendment of this law, because the fact that it will be, is a matter of course. The Kukiz15 will support this Senate amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u211	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Urszula Pasławska, a club of the Polish People's Party. Mrs. Ewa Lieder made a statement in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u212	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the Waste Act. The Senate introduces two amendments clarifying the way in which the subject or substance is considered to be a by-product, indicating that the administrative decision in this case is issued by the Provincial Marshal in agreement with the Provincial Environmental Inspector. Referring to the law itself, it is worth recalling that for several years there has been a specific waste revolution in Poland. Local authorities' responsibility for the proper functioning of the waste collection, transport and treatment system has been restored. A kind of monopoly has been introduced for the operation of waste treatment facilities. In each of the voivodships, seymikas adopt voivodship waste management plans, making a balance of waste generated in the region and the capacity of waste treatment facilities. The case seemed to be the perfect solution, but life creates different scenarios. Respect for how much waste we produce as Poles is still a big mistake. Here, the government's initiative on sealing the system is fully justified, but it points to the poor condition of the services responsible for monitoring waste management, i.e. Environmental Protection Inspections. When it comes to the system itself, including the waste database, we see the centralist drags of the resort, and the assignment of the electronic database, so-called. BDO, the function of the supercharger controlling the shipment of waste seems to be missing. One large system to which many entities are logged - an example of the CEPiK system shows that even well-prepared staff in the ancients may have problems with the operation of such a system. The system must be created, but efficient and thoughtful, not just as a collection of godly wishes. Next, the assignment, the authors of the bill in the explanatory memorandum, one person in the BDO region is the best proof of how seriously this problem is taken by the Ministry. The reduction of resources due to local governments of voivodships is another step in reducing local governments. After voivodship environmental funds have been seized, the collection of melioration boards and farm advisory centers is still trying to get a little bit out of the marshals' budget. Waste management needs to be built in partnership between citizens, local government and government administration. This is the kind of partnership I urge you to make. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u213	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? I'm closing the list. The first and only question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice. Two minutes for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u214	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the rapporteur. Of course, we are currently seeing the development of a grey zone in the field of waste management. I'd like to ask. I'm asked by locals who have a waste problem, discover what and start new landfills in the fields, excavations where the waste is stored. Will the solutions proposed by the Senate in this bill facilitate the fight against these phenomena and will we not finally, hopefully, have protests of the inhabitants and there will be no problems that they actually have, because they are really still health problems associated with this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u215	Thank you, Member. The committee rapporteur, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is indeed the answer to the problems that concern waste management, the so-called "waste management." wild landfills, grey zones, unregistered waste that are either moved in Poland or imported from abroad. The main tool to avoid at least some of the problems to date is the waste database that one of my previous speakers mentioned. This base is about to be the main tool to verify how much waste is actually transported and processed by entrepreneurs. Because so far, a large part of the gray area, a black one, which was completely unregistered, were companies that, in various strange places, were simply throwing away waste until, of course, they were caught. It was the cheapest. And these were no longer wild dumps created by individuals or households, but were created by companies on an industrial scale. Hence, the holes in the ground that are insecure in no way before the drain drain, before the passage of hazardous substances into the soil, we have a chance to eliminate, but only when there is a strict record, which will be covered by all entrepreneurs who are involved in the transport, the treatment of waste. And that's what this bill is for. The Senate amendment itself concerns only a part of the whole waste management, and in principle this element, which is partly related to the protection of the clean air that the Prime Minister referred to. As I mentioned, this is a reaction to the phenomenon in several places in Poland, where by-products, treated so at least by marshals, with silent consent, could be burned. Although, if the Environmental Protection Inspection were to do so, they would be considered rather hazardous waste and could not be burned and should be protected and protected from environmental impacts. There have also been suggestions here that this law somehow restricts local governments. Absolutely not. She clearly assumes the cooperation of the marshal with the Environmental Protection Inspection, but this inspection actually has the tools to verify whether the waste in question is dangerous or merely a by-product. Hence the increased role of the Environmental Protection Inspection. And she's the one who's gonna run this waste base. And since he acquires most of the competence from the marshal, it is natural that some of the money that has so far gone to the regional government will now go to the general environmental inspector. And the last element related to the amendments that emerged during the committee meeting. Indeed, these amendments have also affected these elements relating to the reduction of the grey zone and the facilitation of the disposal of waste to ordinary citizens, mainly electric ones, because this is the case. The Ministry itself clearly indicated during the committee's deliberations that it had nothing against similar solutions, but it had to examine whether such amendments would not be contrary to Polish law, European law and would not have any side effects. And the legislators pointed out that these amendments were not entirely in line with the subject-matter of the law itself, and therefore there would be doubt whether they were going beyond the substantive scope and there would be a constitutional problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u217	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u218	Marshal/Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws, prints Nos 2096 and 2103. The Senate's amendments to the draft law amending the Waste Act and some other laws assume that the Marshal of the voivodship will be required to issue within 3 months of receipt of the notification from the manufacturer of the object or substances resulting from the production process, a decision regarding the recognition - or absence of - of the object or substances as a by-product. This is to be done after agreement with the Regional Environmental Inspector. Previously, the recognition of a by-product was not mandatory and acted on the basis of opposition from the marshal who could express it within 3 months. This change will certainly result in a lot of work for the Marshal's offices of the voivodships. In addition, the manufacturer of the object or substance which submitted to the Marshall of the voivodship the notification of the classification of the object or substance as a by-product before the entry into force of the Act must obtain the said decision within 6 months. The costs that will certainly occur with such a significant change in legislation have not been taken into account. At the same time, however, this regulation will make it possible to clarify the control over objects or substances that arise as a result of the production process and are not always properly categorized as hazardous waste. The purpose of the recognition of a by-product is to ensure that only those products or substances can be considered as a by-product for which processing processes are not required for their use which may pose a risk to the environment or human health. We are therefore inclined to support the Senate amendment in order to minimise the situation in which hazardous waste becomes a by-product. This is a problem that had previously been highlighted by the Provincial Environmental Inspectors. According to the amendments, the agreement between the Marshal of the Voivodship and the competent for the production of the object or substance of the Voivodship Environmental Protection Officer must take place within 60 days and the Marshal will have 3 months from the date of receipt of the notification for the final decision. The Modern Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u219	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and certain other laws (Prints No. 2095 and 2117). I ask Mr Robert Warwas to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u220	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs a report on the work of the committee on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and certain other laws, print No 2095. Ladies and gentlemen! Senate on 6 December this year. he considered the bill passed by the Sejm. He proposed that a single amendment be introduced to its provisions in order to enable the consortium of cooperative non-governmental organisations or entities referred to in Article to join. 3 (1) (a) 3 point 1 of the Act of 24 April 2003 on public benefit activities and voluntary activities, if they carry out: occupational therapy workshops, occupational activities, social inclusion centres, social inclusion clubs, are legal persons active in the field of social and professional reintegration of persons at risk of social exclusion. Marshal on 7 December this year. addressed the Senate resolution to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on 12 December. it has examined the amendment contained in the Senate's resolution to this law and recommends that the High House adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u221	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Warwas, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u222	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice I have the honour to present my position on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and certain other laws, print No 2095. High Seym! The Act amending the Social Cooperatives Act introduced an amendment aimed at enabling non-governmental organisations, legal persons, active in the field of social and professional reintegration of persons at risk of social exclusion to join the cooperative consortium. The Senate amendment aims to ensure that workshops for occupational therapy, occupational activities and social inclusion centres and clubs can be a party to the cooperative consortium agreement. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Given the positive effects of the amendment introduced by the Senate, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill together with the Senate amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u223	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u224	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club supported all the amendments proposed to the Act amending the Act on Social Cooperatives, recognising them as good and needed. Mr Warwas has just used the wording that, considering the purpose of the Senate amendments as important and significantly improving the functioning of social cooperatives, social economy actors, the PiS Club will support the proposed amendment. I just want to say that this is exactly the amendment she tabled - and that it should not be that these are special bows, because Kukiz15 is not particularly friendly with the Civic Platform - Mrs Chass during the second reading and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs rejected this amendment by her colleagues, then it was considered unnecessary and unreasonable. Why are you initiating such a long legislative process, through the Senate, which could adopt without amendments a good law coming out of the Sejm? Why destroy the order of things on such a small, actually apolitical or very political matter, but very much because of this political decision of the law needed, so complicated and so unnecessarily political action? It was a good amendment going in the right direction. We could have stopped the proceedings on the bill at this stage, we would have accepted this amendment and today we would not have talked about the Senate amendments, so praising them, when exactly the same ones were banished a few days ago. That's not necessary. The Civic Platform Club will, of course, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u225	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, everything I could say was said by Mrs Kochan. And thank you for that. That is, it is a very good resolution, because it brings a very good amendment, which was actually a mistake in the procedure of good law. Because the law was well-tested from the beginning, taking into account the needs of social cooperatives, especially those who find employment in them. I have tried to bring into this law something that I think would improve the functioning of the competitive market, on the open market, of cooperatives that could create consortia to compete, to compete in tenders, to provide good services so as not to forget other entities that also conduct rehabilitation, i.e. professional activities, integration centres, professional integration clubs. And that's what the Senate resolution is about. This amendment is an exact copy of the amendment that I actually tabled at second reading and which was rejected. And I'm only gonna allow myself to be digressed like this. I absolutely don't understand this kind of action. I've been in Parliament for two years. I find neither logic nor justification. I understand there's a policy going on here. Some of you gave such advice at the very beginning: this is the policy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are making politics. If that's how we do politics, how are people supposed to get along downstairs? They don't get it at all. Indeed, when we fight for electorate votes, let us not forget that they are waiting downstairs for a good law, for the law that we are creating based on consultation with them. And we are all in this parliament to give them a good right, and everyone has the right to bring something substantial. It's a really bad policy, but we're making it. [[This is politics, Mrs President. This isn't politics.]] It's politics, well, well, yes, politics. But we create politics, we can have an impact on it, really, just don't just do these, well, treatments that are absolutely, I would say, just dishonest, just dishonest. But it's good if that's the case, since you still want to go into politics, I'll give you a hint. In the Seym printing no. 1968 is submitted a draft law on the amendment of the Social Assistance Act. This is the bill I filed with my clubmates. It is a purely substantive law that goes further and also helps social cooperatives to have further scope for action, i.e. to take care of the elderly, in such a way that they can lead sheltered and family welfare homes. This is an oversight from many years ago, a simple, substantive act. Please don't do politics or, if you have to, actually reject it and fold it as your own, but bring it to this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we can move on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u227	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u228	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! I have déjà vu. I have déjà vu because we have already voted on this amendment. We voted on this law in the third reading. It is good that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, so to speak, found, although only in the Senate, but found, a good word for this amendment, because it is indeed good. The Modern Posel Club, like during the process of the bill in the Seym, will support this amendment because it meets the expectations that were communicated by the social side. I do not really understand, like my honourable previous speakers, why we cannot do such things in the spirit of agreement, the spirit of working for citizens, for the benefit of different communities, to adopt laws in consensus regardless of who is the author of a good legislative proposal. So that I hope, at least in cases like these difficult areas... This law concerns a really difficult area where we should all be sensitive, I would say, going much further than other laws. There, at least, in such areas, the largest club in the Sejm, or Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will, however, apply, I would say, such sound principles, common sense politics, and not something that we all do not like, on the one hand, voting for them, and then making the same amendments as the substance, reversing it in the Senate. So that once again I inform you that the Modern Posel Club will support this resolution of the Senate, the proposed amendment in the Senate resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u229	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and some other laws, print No 2095. Ladies and gentlemen! The revision of the Social Cooperatives Act aims to increase financial support for social cooperatives and facilitate the establishment of such centres. The purpose of social cooperatives is primarily to run a joint venture based on the personal work of members and its purpose is to integrate its members into society and work. Consequently, the social cooperative must carry out an economic activity, but the profit generated from that activity is not an objective in itself but a means of achieving its statutory objectives. To this end, an amendment is inserted concerning the possibility that workshops for occupational therapy, occupational activities and social inclusion centres and clubs may be party to the cooperative consortium agreement. In addition, the provisions of the Act provide for a reduction in the number of founders of cooperatives from five to three. However, new cooperatives will be required to complete the remaining membership within 12 months. It also states that at least two persons at risk of social exclusion must be members of the cooperative. The Act provides, inter alia, that unemployed persons under the age of 30 and at the age of 50 will be able to seek support from the Labour Fund to undertake business activities in the form of social cooperatives. The proposed solutions also provide for the extension of financial support for social cooperatives, including: up to six times the average wage to create a job for an unemployed person up to the age of 30 and at the age of 50. The new amendments to the Cooperatives Act also allow the use of shortcuts in trade. The aim of the amendment is to allow cooperatives to use a legal abbreviation, similar to those adopted for companies governed by commercial law. The above changes are positive. The Polish People's Party Club - like everyone else, I understand, my previous speakers from all parliamentary clubs - supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u231	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a statement in writing. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and some other laws. Let me stress once again that social cooperatives are one of the most important players in the social economy. Social cooperatives have an impact on social activity and, what is very important, social inclusion, which is an important part of social life. I would like to remind you that the amendment to the Act aims to increase the sustainability of social cooperatives by making their operations in the first phase more flexible and more efficient. By clarifying the area of activities of social cooperatives, it will be possible to fully achieve the objective of the cooperative, which is social and professional reintegration of people at risk of exclusion. The changes introduced are a step forward, which aims to improve the situation of existing cooperatives, but also to encourage the creation of new ones. I am convinced that this type of social activity will grow and cooperate with other forms of business on the market. It is a good law that responds to the social expectations of the non-governmental sector and those who want to activate themselves by including existing or creating new social cooperatives. The regulations introduced will facilitate such action. During the debate on the draft law in the Senate, an amendment was tabled to allow the cooperative consortium to be joined by religious persons who are active in the field of social and professional reintegration of persons at risk of social exclusion. The amendment is complementary and therefore fully supported by the Free and Solidarnia Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u233	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. [[There were no questions.]] We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Insurance Distribution (Prints No 2106 and 2126). I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present a report to the committee. There's no envoy. [[So, what's up, marshal?]] I don't want to announce a break. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the social security system and certain other laws (Prints No 2108 and 2118). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Sejm Act on the amendment of the Act on the social security system and some other laws adopted at its meeting on 24 November this year. This law mainly concerns the abolition - that is its main objective - of abolishing the principle that more than 30 times the average wage is not paid for pension and pension contributions. As of today, accident insurance contributions are levied on the full basis, while those who earn very well, who receive more than two and a half times the average salary per month, after over thirty times the average wage, stop paying social security contributions. This law abolishes this principle introduced in 1999. The Senate made four amendments to this law at its meeting. The Marshal of the Sejm sent it on 8 December this year. a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. Our committee met on 12 December, considered these amendments and proposed that the High Sejm vote on these four amendments together and that these amendments be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u235	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, as the first Mr Tadeusz Cymanski. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr...]] [[Taddy, Taddy...]] Excuse me, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski. Please take the floor. Now it's your point. [[Is he here yet?]] Yes. [[It's moved, though, your marshal, isn't it?]] Mr President, we need to keep an eye on the room and know what's going on. [[I'm so sorry. Three minutes?]] Three minutes, but it could be shorter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u236	No, no, no, not less than that. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was honored to properly comment on the Senate discussion and its conclusions, because it is difficult to discuss it for three minutes. That's why I'm going straight to the conclusion. The Senate proposes, in short, to postpone the entry into force of this law by 1 year. The arguments in the Senate debate were very different. The only one worthy of respect and recognition is the main one, and he actually explains the whole matter, namely when it comes to preparing the IT system of ZUS, unfortunately he is not able to do so in such a way that the law enters into force on 1 January. Other arguments show, unfortunately, the problem of more specific interests, and there are also arguments that have already been made here in the High House. A powerful force is behind the interests of a few hundred thousand people who make the best money. These are not only IT elites and elites of the best, rare professions, but they are also powerful industries with very high earnings. I think this bill will come into force next year, it will be a year for the CSO to prepare all of this, as well as to have a bigger social discussion, because that's what we're talking about. If someone undermines the belief in our country, that the state will be able to fulfil its obligations, it is a very disturbing, dangerous phenomenon. Also when it comes to assessing people who will be subject to this law, that they will flee abroad on a massive basis, move to self-employment, because their real salary will be reduced by 10% of the pension contribution, and at the same time 15% will be added to their ZUS account. 6.5 plus almost 10 - I congratulate you on your pessimism. I'm saying this with some irony. To conclude, I would like to thank the government for taking up this subject, which has been postponed for many, several decades in the name of equal treatment, and that this will be done by the High House, I hope, for a year. And that's the power of over 300,000. people who make a lot of money are bigger than the power of a dozen million Poles, that's another right, timeless... [[A lie because trade unions are against these solutions.]] ... Because money rules the world. The Senate was simply not the House of reflection, but the House of weakness, which was subject to these particular interests. I say it with a bitter heart [[♪ The bell ♪]] And opening up. Yeah, it's got to be made clear. [[Trade unions are against it.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I've always been in favour. Check the annals.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u237	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna... [[I was for the same thing years ago.]] Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Platform. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Mrs Joanna Frydrych speaking. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I waited until Mr Cymanski's discussion was over. On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 7 December 2017 on the Act amending the Act on social security and certain other laws contained in print No 2108. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out that 48 senators voted on the Act amending the social security system and some other laws. Here I am questioning the validity of further proceedings of this law. In any event, the Senate resolution in question introduces four amendments. Amendment 4 is essential as it amends the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2019 and the other amendments are the consequence thereof. It is worth noting that all representative workers' and employers' organisations, the Union of Polish Powiatów and a representative of the Social Insurance Institution negatively assessed the bill and the mode and pace of its process. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club submitted a request to reject the Act at first reading and a request by minorities to enter into force of the Act on 1 January 2019. Unfortunately, the PiS Members were unable to convince the arguments either substantive or technical. I would like to address Mr Cymanski here, but he does not listen, which has confirmed that the IT system needs a long time to adapt, but still believes that this law is good and should be earlier. Unfortunately, the professionals could not convince the members of the PiS and this harmful bill was unfortunately adopted. From this point of view, I would like to thank the Senators of the Civic Platform very warmly for submitting an amendment on the transfer by one year of the entry into force of this law. I also appreciate the fact that the Senate accepted the arguments also raised during the work of the Sejm and the amendment concerning the vacathio legis. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote against the rejection of the amendments tabled by the Senate, but we maintain the view that the bill under review is very harmful to both social security and the labour market, the economy and local government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u239	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club. There isn't. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u240	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and some other laws, prints no. 2108 and 2118. Ladies and gentlemen! Adjournment of the judgment - in short, the works that took place in the Senate can be summarised. The fact that your amendment will not enter at the end of this year, but at the end of the next year, will not change the attitude towards the proposed changes. You lied to your citizens that you would listen to them - you wouldn't listen. Your idea of abolishing the so-called. The 30-fold principles are not only strongly opposed by all business and employers' organisations, but also critical of them even by the NSZZ Solidarity Union. [[That's sad.]] This Solidarity, whose voices you entered the Sejm. Nor does it preclude the Member from complaining to the Constitutional Tribunal. But you're not afraid of it, because you've already successfully plowed the tribunal. [[Oh, come on.]] But it's not over. Even the ZUS was against your idea. [[Speech outside the microphone]] Marshal, please calm down. "Solidarity, as I have already mentioned, does not exclude that it will file a complaint with the Constitutional Court. But it's not over. The U.S.S. was against your idea. An idea that, as it turns out, is intended to draw more money from citizens. 5 billion PLN - this is what you expect to gain from a new project. The question is why. In this respect, will you support the PSL project and pay benefits of PLN 500 to pensioners? You don't bother. Or are you going to lower the retirement age you've recently raised by five years? Let me repeat, Minister, the questions I have already asked, and I have not received the answers: Will the change proposed by you not deepen the imbalance in the Social Insurance Fund? What kind of recipes do you have to make sure that doesn't happen? Isn't the change you're proposing gonna cause a mass exodus of workers to self-employment to escape the new charges? Mr Cymanski mentioned this. What ideas do you have for this not to happen? And most importantly, do those who are getting the lowest pensions today really benefit from this change? Thank you very much. The Senate amendment, of course, will support the Polish People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a statement in writing. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u242	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The project concerns the abolition of the upper limit of pension and pension contributions entirely paid out on income. Initially, the project envisaged amendments since 2018, while the Senate has tabled amendments to the Act and the most important amendment is the extension of the vacathio legis, the entry into force of this Act on 1 January 2019, a year later than proposed by the High Chamber. The rest of the amendments proposed by the Senate are the consequence of this amendment. The Senate argued that the amendment had serious financial, social and economic consequences, so the extension of the vacathio legis is necessary. It should be noted that this law should not be dealt with in the High House at all, firstly because it strikes active and entrepreneurial people, those whom we should protect... [[Not in lazy.]] Yes, sir. You keep raising taxes, and that's another element, another bill that you're raising taxes. 5 billion zlotys will be extracted additionally from the pockets of Poles. And this is your cold face, you don't care about people, you don't care about active, entrepreneurial people, you don't care about middle class, you just reach into the pockets of Poles as deeply as you can. And that's the kind of bill. Another thing about this law - as far as the Senate resolution is concerned - which is highly questionable and gives rise to reasonable suspicions about which we informed the prosecution, is a scandalous way of adopting this law. Ladies and gentlemen, your vice-marshal of the Senate in a completely arbitrary, non-executive manner, neither from the rules of procedure nor from the practice that has been adopted so far, has led to a change of record as to quorum. 48 senators voted, half of the House's legal membership is 50 senators, so I think even for a kindergartener the answer to the question, which is bigger, 48 or 50, is pretty clear. 48 senators do not fulfil the constitutional obligation, and therefore we have very serious doubts about the correctness of the adoption of this law. However, of course, this amendment itself is another example of the fact that in the High House the opposition tells PiS: listen, it cannot be done, because firstly, it gives rise to burdens, secondly, it makes it necessary to change the IT system, the ZUS will not make it - we talk about it in committees, we talk about it during readings - and the PiS obviously does not listen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So? And he's improving the Senate bill again. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no way to work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u244	Don't raise your taxes and listen to the opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u245	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u246	It's really gonna be a good change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[These are contributions, not taxes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u247	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, as the first Mrs Magda Kochan, the Civic Platform. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u248	Thank you very much, Marshal. There's a great deal of trouble with this resolution right now. Of course, we will support the amendment because it is the same as our minority proposal and postpones the sentence really for the whole year, but the question is... a sentence for entrepreneurs, for the labour market, for the workers, because it is the law on which they did not leave in a joint statement, the common position of employers and trade unionists. It takes away the middlemen and gives nothing to the poor. Again. [[127,000.]] That's not true. No, sir, and please don't practice demagogy here. My question is yes, Your Marshal: Can we debate a resolution that has passed without the quorum required by the Constitution and all the Rules of Procedure - the Senate and the Sejm? Can we vote on this amendment? [[Great, this bill without amendment will pass...]] That is the question which, please, on your hands, I also address to the Bureau of the Sejm. Don't be happy about something. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which we think is better than bad.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u249	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. I'm asking you to dull your emotions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u250	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to address the question to a representative of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, why do you not like Poles so much? Why? [[Joy in the Chamber]] You raise your taxes. You keep raising your taxes. [[It's a contribution, not a tax.]] This is another bill where you raise taxes by PLN 5 billion. You reach into the pockets of Poles, active, entrepreneurial Poles, to the pockets of the middle class, destroying their sense of security. We are still adopting in the High House, you are pushing new taxes. Why do you dislike Polish citizens, Poles and Poles, active and entrepreneurial, who are going to work, are trying, looking for additional employment, and therefore earn a little more? So? And you guys are taking their next taxes. This law draws 5 billion PLN from the pockets of Poles. [[Voice from the room: The poorest.]] Why don't you like active and entrepreneurial citizens so much? You're welcome. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u251	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u252	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to correct Mr Tadeusz Cymanski's statement, because this tax will already be paid... [[Voice from the room: contribution!]] ...this premium will already be paid by employees, among others. State Forests. And don't tell me this only applies to the richest. Secondly, the fact that you are moving this country, the proposal to postpone this deadline for implementation. But no one said what he was gonna be like... [[Cost.]] ...cost on the part of payment of benefits, this balance sheet, if we say: it affects 5.5 billion, but in relation to those who will be entitled to this benefit later, they should also know how it will affect this fund. [[It's an admission to a citizen's pension.]] It took consensus, talking. I'd like to know what kind of calculations you've made in the end, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what benefits will be due to persons who will pay this benefit to the Social Security Office. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u254	Minister! I have a question: Is the attitude of the entire opposition that defends the best earning Poles, calling them middle class... Mr Suchoń says that this is about the middle class. So I would like to say that Members are in the lower class. [[Moravian!]] The average is above us. It's true of them to see the world. I'm asking, I'm asking. [[Don't scream, don't scream!]] I'm just talking with a raised voice, and I'm just about to start screaming. [[Voice from the room: Here you go, here you go.]] Minister, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u255	Excuse me, sir. You can't scream in the Seym. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u256	That's why I'm not doing it. I'm just saying with a raised voice, [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm just informing you of my options, High Izbo. Minister, doesn't this attitude make it difficult, or maybe not, to help the weakest... [[Mother!]] ...aid for health care, reduction of tax from the Social Security Office for the smallest companies, not for fat cats... [[For self-government.]] It's just a heartless attitude. I'm asking you. Just be clear here. Because this money isn't hen, it's budget money. They're giving you a chance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] implementation of very important social projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u257	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much, sir. [[And how much will the local governments lose?]] I'm asking you to calm down. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u258	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear fellow, before you speak, don't say such things, or people will believe it. [[The voice from the room: Bitter truth!]] I didn't bother you, so don't tell me now. Okay? [[My friends were yelling at me.]] [[You're pulling 5 billion out of the Poles' pockets.]] Dear Sir, Ladies and gentlemen! This is the lack of responsibility of this government for future generations. Every government should focus on this first. Just because you're taking money from richer employers now doesn't mean our kids won't have to give it back. You're charging our children with this because you're trying to raise $5 billion next year because you're short of money for the Social Security Office, and this year you're even short of money. [[The sick are missing.]] You're short of money. You want to rip the money out of these people... [[Give it to Rydzyk.]] ...to charge our children, because those people who are now going to pay so high contributions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the 1930s, they're gonna get about 40 grand old-age pensions. zł. [[That's not true.]] [[Right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u259	Thank you very much, Member. And last question by Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[5 billion zlotys you're pulling out...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Please accept, ladies and gentlemen, that no one steals from anyone, no one steals from anyone. The current pension system is a capital system and a pension is calculated from what anyone will contribute to the social security system. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Mr President, listen to your colleague.]] And none of us make 30 or 20 grand a lifetime. It is simply also support for those who today will pay a higher premium, and when they are old and need help, they will get a higher pension. [[The next generation will pay for it.]] And this is our country, and please don't use such expressions that you're being robbed. [[The next generation will pay for it.]] The state protects you and gives you the conditions for development. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u261	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Very good, sir. [[Correction!]] Yes, in the procedure of correcting Mr Mirosław Suchoń. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Cymanski is leaving. You're running away, aren't you? No? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[No, I won't hurt a word.]] Mr President, of course you have already... The Member absolutely did not understand what I said. I made it clear that these fat cats are your Teddy bears who make 50,000 dollars each. And more, and indeed, at the end of the day, you still give them pensions for which future generations will pay, because they will actually pay a higher contribution today from the Social Security Office, but future generations will have to pay for your wastefulness. But what's important is this -- these active and entrepreneurial people, this middle class, these are people who go to work every day, they try to earn a penny every day -- sometimes it's a little bit more -- and you just reach into their pockets. They're not rich, they're wealthy, they're very often living from first to first, they're going on vacation once a year, they're planning it six months earlier. [[But I don't think you know the bill.]] They're raising money for all of this. And you out of their pockets are trying to pull that money out. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u263	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u264	5 billion PLN. [[To health care, my friend.]] Then where's the justice? No health care, no Misiewicz. [[Hospitals, look, health care.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u265	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u266	You want to give that money away, you don't know who.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u267	Gentlemen, to calm the situation, please, the Undersecretary of State... [[They can't be in health care.]] [[Of course they can't.]] ...in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Marcin Zielenecki for answers to questions and silence of the hall. [[It's a good thing you're so calm, Minister,]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Discussion of this draft law took place in the High House. I had the opportunity to present our point of view, the government's point of view, the justification, the ratio legis, the axiological basis of this solution. So I don't think it's worth repeating it, but it's worth referring to numbers. And these numbers are worth reminding at every opportunity, also in the context of this discussion today. These numbers are 98%. persons subject to the Polish general social insurance scheme who pay contributions on the total income they earn for the subject of this social insurance. The second of these numbers is 2%. the persons concerned, 2% people with the highest income, because it is revenue in 2017 at the level of PLN 127 890 per year, on a monthly basis it is PLN 10 790. [[Yeah, that's right.]] I hope, Mr President, that speaking of people who get up every morning, go to work and work hard, you mean not only the 2% persons, [[Applause]] What income... [[Bravo!]] ...they exceed this threshold of 30 times the average monthly salary, but also those who work very hard, just as hard for them to get up... [[You raise taxes on water, you raise taxes on electricity.]] ...they go to work every day and pay their contributions... [[12 million people.]] ...from the total salary achieved within the framework of... [[The height of demagogy.]] ...of various titles subject to social security. You have asked to address issues related to the impact of this solution on balance or any imbalance, as you suggest, in the Social Insurance Fund. I mentioned it to you, too. The impact assessment attached to the draft law indicates... [[Nothing.]] ...that on the scale of the first 10 years of this law the balance sheet of the Social Insurance Fund, and I think it is worth talking more about it, so the balance sheet of the public finance system will be a positive balance sheet, at the level of PLN 5400 million. [[That's why we're talking about grandchildren and children.]] And I would like to assure you, if necessary, that this balance sheet for the public finance system is a positive balance by 2060 in the course of the debate and in the Parliament's plenary session. [[Applause]] [[You can't count.]] In the long term, you understand this country, by nature we do not carry out such forecasts. As for the issue that emerged in the course of the discussion, scaring down horror pensions... [[Yeah, 40 grand.]] ...which the Social Insurance Fund will have to finance from the Social Insurance Fund, then, ladies and gentlemen, such simulations have of course been carried out taking into account the various options of the income generated by the insured persons. I will give you an example of those who have achieved a premium of 400% during their career. The average... [[Medium, yes, sir.]] ...remuneration throughout his professional life, the entire period of insurance. According to the calculations, the pension of such a person will be around 7 000. zł. 7,000. gross zloty it, I feel, is not a pension that we could call retirement... [[Horrible.]] Horrendous. [[Very creative counting.]] I would like to draw attention to the themes that emerged during the discussion. We're not talking about people who earn high income by some part of their career. We need to look at the story of the insured... [[Exactly.]] ...from the entire insurance period. And in many cases, the situation is that the insured person has periods in which he or she achieved little or no income at all, as well as periods in which these salaries and, consequently, the basis for the assessment of social security contributions were relatively high. I don't understand why you don't want these people to have a chance to get a pension in relative terms...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u269	Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: ...higher heights. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And just a little bit more, the draftsman of the committee, but very briefly, because I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to go. 18 is the time by which we have to complete the examination of
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u270	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to comment briefly as briefly as possible on what was raised in the discussion. [[But there were no questions. There were no questions for you.]] I would start with the speech by Mr PSL, who once again raised the issue of pension allowances. I would like to say once again to the Member that pension allowances for the poorest pensioners were paid only during the years of the Law and Justice Government in 2005 and last year, while for 8 years, when PSL co-ruled with the Platform, all draft laws were submitted, among others. by me, written by me, they were rejected. Last year, Law and Justice again paid out the pension allowance and raised the lowest pensions this year. The lowest pensions increased by one hundred dozen zlotys per month, which gives about 1400 zlotys per year. [[Previously, it was elevated as well.]] With regard to the second argument made by Mr PSL, about raising the retirement age, the Member again misses the truth, because it was the PSL, together with the Civic Platform, that raised the retirement age for farmers in 2012, and this raised so much that women were raised from 55 to 67 years of age, as well as men to 67 years of age. Yes, it was delayed the entry into force of this part of the bill, but it would already apply. That is why Law and Justice have also reduced the retirement age for farmers. I also wanted to refer to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u271	But just for the punch line...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u272	...the speeches made by Mrs Kochan, who said that the people we are talking about are middle earners. The 2% These are not middle-earning people, these are the people who earn just over 2.5 national averages a month. So it's not an average earner, it's an average earner of at least 2.5 times this average. I also wanted to say that this does not really apply at all, because entrepreneurs pay the declared premium and this contribution cannot be less than...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u273	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u274	... 60% the national average as the basis for this contribution. So these contributions are lower. And I cannot, Mrs Marshal, refer also to Mrs Chmiel's speech, because Mrs Chmiel has accused the Government of Law and Justice of irresponsibleness. So let me put it this way: what we can say about the responsibility of the PO-PSL government, who took money from the Demographic Reserve Fund, took money cyclically, and also took...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u275	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u276	...money from open pension funds? Thank you very much. [[He didn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u277	Thank you very much. There was a discussion here, not about amendments. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u278	On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on the Social Security System and some other laws after the Senate passed. As I mentioned earlier, the bill is an expression of the government's concern about the poorest Poles. It is in this project that I am so close to the idea of social solidarity. In his amendments, the Senate took the view that the entry into force of the Act was too fast in 2018. I am aware that the provisions adopted in the Act are comprehensive and modify the conditions for employers to do business so far, However, I do not agree with the Senate's position. However, I believe that the compromise is necessary in this situation, and I accept the argument that, due to the appropriate safeguards of the situation of employers and workers involved in the implementation of the law, it is necessary to extend its vacathio legis. About Free and Solidarni, as recommended by the committee, will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u279	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. [[Member, you lied because no one took the money. You lied.]] We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Insurance Distribution (Prints No 2106 and 2126). I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Referring to this earlier discussion, I would like to say that Members also sometimes get up in the morning and sometimes work hard. We worked so hard, among others. on the Act on Insurance Distribution, but despite the Senate, which worked equally hard, he submitted to us five amendments to the article. 94, 101, 108 and 110 of this law, related to a certain specific sales, e.g. greenhouse gas emission allowances or publication of information. But in total, these are rather amendments that go towards ordering, and also partly legislative amendments. That's why I'm asking you to consider them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u281	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act on Insurance Distribution. By adopting Amendments 1, 2 and 4, the Senate decided to adapt the catalogue of grounds for withdrawing the authorisation of the auction platform by the company operating the regulated market. Amendments 3 and 5. The Senate has extended its law to include a transitional provision governing the public disclosure of pre-trade information in the period before 3 January 2018. The Law and Justice Club supports the solutions presented and the entire bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u283	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u284	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! I am here to present the position of the club in relation to this project, but it is worth saying and denying what Mrs Bartus lied about this speaker. The government of the Civic Platform and PSL did not take, did not steal from Poles, but gave the choice to all those who had raised money in open pension funds, or leave it in an open pension fund, or move to the Social Insurance Institution the part that was mandatory. And I would like to say to you that in this case, the law and justice club had far-reaching amendments regarding the elimination of open pension funds at all. It's worth saying that, not lying from that platform. As for the bill - Senate amendments, the Civic Platform club considers it justified. They focus on adapting yet, improving this project, which came out of the Sejm, and mainly concern two issues. The first issue is to ensure the continuity of the system of organised trading in financial instruments, i.e. by launching a greenhouse gas trading platform, extending the trading deadline from 12 months to 36 months so that it is time to select an auction platform and listing according to European Union legislation on a system for the allocation of greenhouse gas emissions. The second issue concerns the publication of pre-trade information. This is the implementation of the MiFID II Directive, the introduction of a transitional provision which allows trading organisers to apply the existing rules on the publication of pre-trade information between the entry into force of the Act and the date on which the Financial Supervision Authority takes a decision on obtaining consent... to make public, and precisely: to obtain consent for exemption from that obligation. The Civic Platform Club will support the amendments tabled by the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u285	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u286	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act on Insurance Distribution. High Izbo! The Senate has tabled five amendments to the Insurance Distribution Act to the High House. These amendments are rather orderly, more precise. Amendments 1, 2 and 4 align these provisions with the provisions of Commission Regulation No 1031/2010, while Amendments 3 and 5 extend the Transitional Law on the rules for the public disclosure of pre-trade information before 3 January 2018. Given the nature and scope of these amendments Poselski Club Modern will support them in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u287	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u288	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act on Insurance Distribution. The Senate introduced, as has been said, five amendments. The law, which we adopted as the Sejm, slightly extended the scope of the provisions of Regulation 1031/2010 of the European Commission, was a kind of extension of the regulations contained in that regulation. The Senate amendments withdraw these additional provisions - not necessarily and complicated implementation of this Regulation. We will vote in favour of these amendments, i.e. against their rejection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u289	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a statement in writing. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act on Insurance Distribution. With this resolution, the senators propose that the draft five amendments be made to the previously worked by the Sejm. Three of them slightly modify the rules on the authorisation of the auction platform and the other two extend the law to transitional provisions. My support for these amendments stems from the belief that they are the result of an in-depth analysis of the project and an attempt to better adapt it to the reality of the insurance market. I am convinced that, in this form, the regulations contained in this law are reasonable and will meet the objectives assigned to them. By increasing consumer protection and transparency of transactions, the number of frauds and frauds will decrease and the insurance services market will gain. The purpose of the draft insurance distribution law was to implement the EU directive. I am pleased that the intensity of the work carried out in addition to the good law will also translate into the introduction of its provisions within a time limit which is in line with EU requirements. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u291	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws (Prints No 2105 and 2127). I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u292	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, to present a report on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and on certain other laws, print No 2127. Let me remind you that this is about the bill on the split payment mechanism, with the English split payment. The Senate leaned over our bill and proposed 10 amendments. Some of these amendments are more detailed, improving. They express our intentions even better. There are several amendments that move the split payment solution into effect by 3 months. This is because some banks have reported that they may have problems implementing the split payment mechanism. With the whole split payment mechanism, which consists in a chain, so to speak, split payment, if one eye hadn't been prepared somewhere, it might not have worked. I think the bill with these amendments should be adopted. Such a recommendation is also given by the Public Finance Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u293	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is the continuation of a great public finance recovery. What the Government of Law and Justice is doing is further effective sealing of the tax system. At this point, it is worth recalling 2007 and the information that was coming out, which appeared in the European Commission, which stated that Poland is the leader among the countries of the European Union with the lowest VAT gap. Then, in 2007, only the Netherlands could boast a better result than us. Since 2008, when the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party ruled, the VAT gap has widened at a turning rate. In 2015 it was already over PLN 50 billion. The gap in VAT in 2015, as I mentioned, was seven times higher than in 2007. It is also worth noting that the cumulative VAT gap in the years 2008 to 2015 and, therefore, I will mention it again - during the times of PO and PSL, is the amount of more than PLN 262 billion. The Government of Law and Justice effectively, as I mentioned, seals the tax system, sealing VAT receipts. This can be seen, for example, from the revenue to the budget, from the state's income. For this reason, there was PLN 134 billion a year ago, and the amount planned for next year is PLN 166 billion. We're not raising taxes, we're just effectively sealing the tax system. This will also happen because of the bill we are talking about. The Senate has proposed 10 amendments to this bill. The Senate amendments mainly postpone its entry into force from 1 April to 1 July 2018. There is no doubt that the split payment mechanism is based on the banking system. Thus, it is crucial for the success of the implementation of this mechanism that all banks and cooperative credit and savings banks prepare for new solutions. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend to the High House that the Senate's amendments be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u295	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Vladimir Nykel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u296	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and certain other laws. The split payment mechanism itself introduced by the project can be an effective instrument to combat tax evasion in relation to the tax on goods and services, as the tax paid to the supplier or service provider will be credited to the isolated VAT account and from it to the tax authority. However, it should be stressed that the rules contained in the project also have disadvantages, as they may have a negative impact on the financial liquidity of undertakings, since the taxable person who is a supplier or service provider will be free to have only the net amount of the receivable received, since the amount of the tax which is part of the price will be frozen in a separate VAT account. In addition, it should be recognised that the introduction of this mechanism will be costly primarily for entrepreneurs. The Senate amendments themselves can be included in two groups: the first concerns the extension of the date of entry into force of the Act from 1 April 2018 to 1 July 2018 and the other amendments are formal in nature, and they order the text of the Act in technical and legislative terms. We do not object to the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u297	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sitarski made his statement in writing. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tulaev! Just now, using the mandate of a Member, you have misled citizens. I hope it's not on purpose, and if it's not, I'll explain it to you. It is not true that the PiS does not raise taxes and that it does not benefit from the state budget either, because the State has already introduced a bank tax, a trade tax, which has so far been suspended only thanks to the European Union, gallery tax, progressive housing rental tax, increased electricity, water, gas charges... [[It's not tax.]] ...and you've already raised the ZUS twice, so please don't mislead the Poles. Every time you lie from this Parliamentary pulpit that the PiS doesn't raise taxes, I'll go out and overthrow your lies, and tell the Poles the truth - the PiS raises taxes, does it faster than the previous government. [[Just give me one, please. We didn't raise any.]] And you also benefit from this, although you operate in conditions of economic growth and prosperity in the world, in Europe and in Poland. Going to the 2105 Print Act, it is my pleasure to present the position of my club. The purpose of the resolution is to amend the Act adopted on 9 November to seal the tax system as regards the tax on goods and services and to ensure greater stability of VAT receipts and to prevent tax evasion. According to the solutions contained in that law, a new tool was to be introduced - a split payment mechanism. The Modern Club was in favour of the adoption of the bill to which the Senate resolution was submitted. From this speaker we expressed our approval for the solutions presented, but we pointed to some reservations. One of these reservations, one of the criticisms that we had for the solutions we had in place, was that it would take time for the system as a whole to adapt to the split payment mechanisms, so that the whole system, the representatives of the banks, but also the environment could adapt to it. Delaying the date of entry into force of the Act, moving it from 1 April to 1 July of next year is the most appropriate decision. We have said in advance that you have left too little time in the bill, which is why, of course, we will support the Senate amendment as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u299	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u300	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before I make a substantive comment on this project, I just want to comment on Mr Tulayev's statement. As I've noticed, I've heard slogans written for the third time, untrue of course, and repeated at every opportunity, whether about or not. And now I'm moving on to my club's position on Senate resolution, 2127 print, and really to the public finance committee's position. In general, the Law on the amendment of the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws, namely this Act, concerns the so-called. divided payment. The Senate introduced ten amendments to her. The main substantive change concerns the extension of the date of entry into force of the Act from 1 April to 1 July 2018. This is about giving more time to prepare banks and SKOKs for new solutions, and especially for adapting ICT systems. My club supports these amendments, which means it will be against the rejection of the Senate's amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u301	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u302	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Minister! I present the position of the Poselski Kukiz Club15 vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws (Print No. 1864). The bill came back from the Senate of the Republic of Poland with important amendments (print No. 2105), i.e. - the split payment mechanism will be introduced on 1 July 2018, - the VAT account may be charged in accordance with the new provisions in order to pay to the tax office: VAT, additional tax liability, interest on VAT delay, interest on late payment of the additional tax liability. Here I would like to express my doubts: Will the VAT account be charged only on the amount corresponding to all or part of the amount of the tax on goods and services? Or will such regulations open the way for tax authorities to collect other danins and liabilities from the VAT account? Split payment will be used voluntarily by buyers who have received an invoice issued for the product purchased or a service rendered with the amount of tax shown. Such payment for these commitments is to be made in two bank accounts, i.e. the net amount for the supplier's bank account and the VAT amount for the special shadow bank account. The use of funds in a special account will be limited, there will be no possibility of financing the current activity with tax. Benefits for entrepreneurs resulting from the application of the split payment mechanism: no additional VAT account fees, the granting of an amount of excess input tax, one of the arguments for the recognition of business transactions as a condition for due diligence. The disadvantage of the draft law is to deprive sellers of the freedom to dispose of the amount on the VAT account of the fact that the decision on the choice of the payment model will belong to the purchaser and that the application of the split payment will affect the limitation of financial liquidity. Is it true that the seller's consent to the split payment mechanism is not required? Trade representatives sought the possibility to transfer funds between VAT accounts at different banks within a single company. Will such a solution in the split payment system be possible? High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Minister! The split payment mechanism should be simple and mandatory, which would exclude the existence of transactions other than split payment. Since when will each trader have an additional VAT account created? When will it be real that split payment will become the universal and only VAT system? Who is responsible for the funds collected on a special VAT account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u303	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims (print No 2131). I ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the group of Members to present a draft amendment to the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. High Izbo! The draft amending act provides for an amendment to the Act of 7 April 2017 amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. The essence of the proposed amendments is to postpone by 6 months the date of entry into force of the amended Act, amending 1 January 2018 to 1 July 2018 as regards the keeping of the Register of Public Claims. The consequence of the amendment of the date of entry into force of these provisions is the amendment of the transitional provisions, that is to say, Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the amended law, which is replaced by the new law, and Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the amended act which is repealed. The change in the date of entry into force of the register was dictated by the need to make comprehensive changes to the information systems used by the heads of the tax offices acting as creditors, which are relevant for the various categories of cash claims to be entered in the register. Information from the IT systems of the heads of the tax offices acting as creditors concerning the arrears collected by the tax offices, inter alia. for tax obligations, duties, monetary claims resulting from the Act of 10 September 1999. The tax penal code and fines imposed by way of a criminal mandate in criminal proceedings, together with other information referred to in Article. 18b § 2 of the Law of 17 June 1966 on enforcement proceedings in the administration concerning the designation of the obliged party, the designation of the creditor and other circumstances relating to those claims are to be directly entered in the electronic system in which the register will be kept. The effective date of entry into force does not take into account all changes made and planned in the IT systems of the Ministry of Finance, National Tax Administration and other entities. It is necessary to carry out additional work that will allow for the complete adaptation of the existing creditors' IT systems in order to make the functionality available to enable the automatic entry of the data set out in the Data Act into the Register. The estimated duration of the full adjustment of the creditors' system is 5 months according to the Ministry of Finance and therefore it is necessary to postpone the date of entry into force of the provisions establishing the Register of Public Claims. This change will guarantee the stability and full functionality of the solution. According to Art. The draft law shall enter into force on 1 January 2018. This is due to the need to correlate the date of entry into force of the Act on the date of entry into force of the Law of 7 April 2017 amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims in respect of the keeping of the Register of Public Claims. Importantly, the amendment of the date of entry into force of the provisions governing the Register of Public Claims, including a transitional provision setting out the deadline to be entered in the Register of arrears arising before the date of entry into force of the Act, will not adversely affect citizens, businesses and the public finance sector. Changes also have no impact on the competitiveness of the economy and entrepreneurship, including the functioning of entrepreneurs, without affecting the family, citizens and households. On behalf of the Members who have signed this bill, I ask the High House to adopt a law amending the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u305	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylvester Tulaev will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u306	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As an applicant Member, I have presented exactly what this draft law concerns. I would like to stress once again very strongly that the law is quite short, it only proposes to change the date of entry into force of the law. The point is that with regard to the introduction of the Register of Public Claims, we move this deadline by six months, from 1 January 2018 to 1 July 2018. It's a very important bill. Once again, as an applicant, I have explained the meaning of this law in detail. Without wishing to renew any more, I am bringing in on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Law and Justice on the adoption of the law in this wording. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u307	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I'll talk about the conclusions right away. Yes, we are in favour of passing this law in this extraordinary mode today. The Civic Platform Club will support this proposal. I would like to stress very strongly that we have a situation that is quite characteristic of the legislative standard in recent months. The last sitting, de facto the last vote, de facto today's Convention meeting, where Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki responds to the letter of the Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, sending to the Marshal a request that this is the last chance for a dead rule not to enter into force on 1 January, because the IT system, which was to ensure this automation, simply does not function. These additional five months are obviously needed not to create fiction and there is no dead law and chaos. We know this from the poorly introduced CEPiK system. [[Voice from the room: Still no.]] We will not create this problem de facto for ourselves, but I remind you that this law was passed in April this year. It did not enter into force quickly enough, i.e. with a short period of vacathio legis, i.e. On 1 July, the existing IT system had to be checked. If he was there then, why isn't he here today? That's why we bought an extra six months for him to be there. So I didn't want to ask anymore. I hope this is a guarantee that on the last day of the last June session in the new year we will not use it to move this entry date back to July 1st, sorry, January 1st. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u309	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members of the Law and Justice! This bill is the best proof of how incompetent you make the law. The sad thing is, first of all, that this is the third law or Senate resolution - depending on the form in which we proceed - in a row, which dismisses the entry into force of the laws, because so you create the law that you want to implement everything immediately, in an unprepared, extraordinarily manner, without paying attention to what the opposition environments say, what the non-political environments say, which sometimes even directly tells the authorities that will be directly responsible for implementing a given solution. You don't want to listen to anybody because PiS is a shoe and arrogance, and he knows everything best. Today, let's just mention this remoteness of the entry into force of the Act on the elimination of the upper limit of the contribution to the Social Security Office, 12 months away. At the meeting of the Sejm Committee, the representatives of the Social Insurance Institution made it clear: do not set a deadline for the entry into force of the Act on 1 January this year, because we will not be able to implement this solution in IT. Trade unions have made it clear that companies don't have budgeted costs. PiS knew better and planned the date of entry into force of the law on 1 January of the new year, which will be in a few days. Next thing you know, there's a split payment mechanism. We have just been investigating, we have been talking about the Senate's decision to dismiss this solution by 6 months or up to 6 months, because banks are not able to prepare for the implementation of this solution in IT. It was also said in the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance, but PiS knew better. Now what? Register of public debts. When we said in the middle of the year that although this is a good and supportive solution, we need to prepare ourselves for it in the right way, because you are implementing a major reform of the tax administration, and it is not possible to thicken the implementation of new solutions in this way, because they will not work like the CEPiK, but, of course, you knew better, you had to do things your way, because it is the boot and arrogance of the PiS, because the PiS knows better. Finally, we should mention the withdrawal from revolutionary solutions in the electoral ordination, because once again everyone around us told the Law and Justice that it would not be possible six months or a year before the local government elections, counting on implementation, making changes, that it would take six months to close the project, so that it would be known in which system we would elect local governments in the forthcoming elections. Law and Justice all the time said he knew better that he could do it. You were ready to fire the entire State Election Commission. What did we hear? That you know better that the PKW isn't capable of being incompetent that they don't want to work. No, ladies and gentlemen, changes, especially revolutionary ones, must be made in a normal way in the country so that citizens feel safe to have confidence in the state, and not to lose that trust. Of course, given that the last call proposed today at the last moment, after the great request of the Minister, the Prime Minister and your Marshal, the solution will not work in practice, we will support the six-month period of entry into force of the system for the identification of public debts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u311	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u312	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present a position, an opinion on the parliamentary draft law amending the law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims, print No. 2131. The draft of this Act introduces three amendments to the Act of 7 April 2017 amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. The proposed amendment concerns a transfer of 6 months from 1 January 2018 to 1 July 2018, the date of entry into force of the provisions of the Act on the keeping of the Register of Public Claims. I would like to point out that this is a parliamentary project, not a government project, which states that there is a need to carry out additional, necessary work that will allow for the complete adaptation of the IT systems of the Minister of Finance, National Tax Administration and other entities to the automatic entry of data into the register. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I declare that we will vote in favour of this project. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the repeated irregularities in the creation of the new law. The project we are debating today is not an isolated example of the irregularities and chaos that we are creating in many projects that you are proposing without proper preparation, without consultation and in a great hurry. In addition, most projects are human resources laws. These really aren't good changes. The exchange of the majority of workers in institutions that are allegedly reformed leads to a situation such as today's draft of changes. You refer to the leadership positions of the unsubstantiated, incompetent, but faithful to the Law and Justice. They really just have to learn from the underlings of good work, and that takes time, and that's why they're moving the next dates. Nor do you listen to us, Members of the opposition, who often, in an objective assessment of the situation, try to point out the risks envisaged to you, and that is not just regarding the deadlines for introducing the new law, but that our amendments and our comments mean nothing to you. In view of the exposé of Prime Minister Morawiecki, I would like to ask you, Members of the governing party, whether it is possible to change this for the better. Now, High Izbo, listen to what we're debating today, how it sounds. We are debating a change in the law on change, etc. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u313	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the law amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims. The purpose of the proposed amendments is to postpone by 6 months, from 1 January 2018 to 1 July 2018, the date of entry into force of the provisions of the Act relating to the keeping of the Register of Public Claims. I consider the proposed amendment to be justified. The need for comprehensive changes in information systems, which are used by the heads of tax offices acting as creditors, has arisen. The current date of entry into force of the Act does not take into account the ongoing and planned changes in information systems, among others. The Ministry of Finance. Therefore, I believe that the extension of the period of entry into force of the provisions of the Register will affect the complementary alignment of the existing IT systems of creditors, which I believe will translate into the rapid introduction of the data set out in the Data Act into the Register. I believe that the delay in the period of entry into force of these provisions will affect the stability and full functionality of the implemented solutions. The change will have no impact on the competitiveness of the economy and the public finance sector. About Free and Solidarni supports the bill submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u315	I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the bill. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to second reading. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the bill? No one's checking in. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 6:30. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 51 hrs. 18 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commemoration of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. This is print number 2133. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection... [[Objection!]] [[Voices from the room: Objection!]] I can't hear you objecting. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the room: Objection!]] There's an objection, right? Who said "objection"? [[Everyone.]] Mrs Elżbieta Raven. At the same time, I inform you, the High House, that at the moment the discussions are being listened to by young people from Szczecin high schools and universities. Welcome. [[Applause]] We'll be right back to that point. I'm gonna make a formal request right now. Mrs Beata Kempa, Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] [[On your knees and apologize.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration at the hands of the Minister of Justice, the Prosecutor General, the Minister for Special Services, for the effective action taken to capture the person who set fire to my parliamentary office. From here, I'd like to thank all the officers, if you don't mind... [[Applause]] [[We'll allow it.]] You're welcome. ...for all those I don't know by name and by name today who have contributed to the fact that this person has been taken into account. [[Voice from the room: Statement.]] I want to thank you from this place for their sacrificial work, and I want to thank you from this place for their determination and for proving that there is no political hatred in our country. [[Applause]] I would also like to thank the prosecutors for their determination, for their on-the-spot work, for their decisions regarding the category of the plea. Yes, I agree: it's a terrorist act. [[Applause]] If you set fire to a parliamentary office, if you set fire to a place where dozens of families live nearby, if you do it in the middle of town, that means it's a terrorist act. [[Applause]] I also want to thank, my dears, all my colleagues, no matter what political beliefs you have, for the acts of solidarity with me, for the words of support. I want to do this on my own behalf, and also on behalf of my husband and my children. Thank you very much, and at the hands of the ministers, I would like to thank all the officers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u317	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I understand that these are serious matters, but I would ask that there be formal requests for the procedure to be kept. [[Why didn't you stop?]] Mr Mariusz Witczak, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 6 of the Rules of Procedure calls for a reassignment of a law aimed at increasing the participation of citizens in the selection, operation and control of certain public bodies to committee. Now the justification, Mr. Marshal, and a few sentences of history. The law and justice such an important project, so critical for the functioning of democracy and for the functioning of the free state and free elections, submitted, after which at the first meeting the applicants submitted 100 amendments to their own project. The next day, Mr. Marshal, the applicants have added another 30 amendments to their own project. After further discussions, difficult discussions, which proved to the applicants that this was a legal bubble, yesterday Law and Justice filed on the third lap, Mr. Marshal, 100 amendments, another 100 amendments that we worked on late night. And, Mr Marshal, this is the work, this is the amount of documents, High Izbo, to be read by your fellow Members for several minutes. After all, these documents, finally formulated, grouped... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Do you remember 300 amendments in the Senate?]] ...with amendments that make each other... Listen to me. Look, this is a very important thing. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] These amendments, all these very important issues that concern the Polish system, the future of Poland, were grouped in a chaotic way. In this document, many amendments exclude one another. And I want to say something very important to you, Mr. Marshal. At yesterday's meeting, the Legislative Bureau clearly indicated that a lot of amendments were going through - because, as I said, you added 100 and that's 30, and that's yesterday. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another serving of 100 - beyond the scope of submission. Normally, if the Constitutional Tribunal were to function, it would reject this law for its very mode. Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u319	Thank you, thank you. Let me...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u320	...this is an outrage. This is bullshit. [[Oh, he's shooting.]] ...legal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u321	Thank you. There's a formal conclusion. [[Till I fired.]] Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u322	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I ask for the adjournment of the point on the Extraordinary Commission report on amending certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the selection, operation and control of certain state bodies by tomorrow. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, as my previous speaker said, 250 amendments were tabled to the bill, which was scandalously prosecuted. Yesterday at an hour. 23.30 we have completed our work in the Extraordinary Committee, today at 3 p.m. 17.53 we received a voting scenario. It is not possible that within a few dozen minutes or even hours to prepare recommendations, to check this, the more that the report has changed the number of amendments, there are completely different ones on which we have examined... [[The contents of the amendments.]] ...at the stage of the committee's work, and those that are in today's ranking. We have 330 amendments to the vote, 185 from the second reading, and over 150 minority proposals. There's no way to do that. Mr. Marshal! I know that it was thanks to you that these 100 amendments were affected, because the rebellion of the locals from Podkarpacie caused that the proposal to change the electoral code was turned upside down. I hope that you will stop this work and will not be able to vote on it today. This document is inconsistent, it is hopeless, the only element it contains, is an element of giving full power and supervision over the National Election Office of Minister Błaszczak. The former era of Misiewicz, the era will be... [[Voice from the hall: Tera, tera.]] ... Clowns. [[Applause]] They're going to every municipality, every county. 5,000. The Blaszczaks are on their way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u323	Thank you, sir. Mr Adam has the floor... [[Look, the platform called it in.]] Mr Schreiber with a vote against.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, you could say that blind feelings and memory will drag you out. [[Applause]] Dear Member, I would like to say yes. First of all, you're not telling the truth, the amendments to this project, High Izbo, made on behalf of Law and Justice, are 17... [[Voice from the room: joke!]] ...17, [[Applause]] with a positive opinion of the committee, and the fact that they are... [[113.]] ...in many cases grouped into one block, because they're the same case, I think you should know. And it is remarkable and surprising that this behaviour and this attitude of the opposition Members, especially the Platform. You can recall how it was before. Ladies and gentlemen, in 4 days you decided to take the money of Poles from OFE, 150 billion. [[Applause]] Work on this bill continued... [[Voice from the room: What does that have to do with anything?]] ...over a month, High Izbo. You've also forgotten that in your previous term you've been reporting to your draft electoral code... [[What does that have to do with anything?]] ...over 370 amendments. They went to the Senate, which had a few hours to get acquainted with this. High Izbo! I'm asking you to reject this motion because it's groundless. There was a multi-day, multi-hour discussion on this subject, and everyone had the right to speak. And today, you are outraged that law and justice, by looking at the project, does not accept everything at once, according to what they think, but that they are talking to you, that they are talking to local governments, that they are talking to social organizations. It's worth remembering. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u325	Thank you very much. Just, ladies and gentlemen, there are further formal requests, and already more than two from the club. I would like to point out that there was an honorary agreement concluded at one meeting of the Seniors Convention, that there were only two conclusions from the club. If you don't want me to make a formal request not to carry out formal applications, then let's stick to the rules -- two from the club. And I'm gonna let that happen. At the moment, Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor. This is the second conclusion of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I wanted to make a formal request for a break during which the Minister of Foreign Affairs, if he is in the Chamber of Parliament, and if he is not, one of the Deputy Prime Minister in the Government, will explain and address the words, scandalous in my opinion words, one of the high officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Jan Parys about Ukraine. Jan Parys said that the existence of Ukraine is not a necessary condition...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u327	Mr President, this proposal is not on the agenda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u328	But that's why...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u329	In my statements, I ask you to do so. Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski has the floor... [[These are statements.]] ... Polish People's Party. I remind you, formal applications can only apply to points... [[In the parliamentary statements, at the end of the meeting.]] ... which are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to address the Marshal of the Sejm: Are we supposed to proceed today over such an important... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Into the microphone!]] [[Get in the mike!]] ...a problem, like a local government, in such a hurry? Mr. Marshal, 10 minutes ago we received this footage. Who is able to read the amendments contained in this material? Who's up for it? [[Me!]] [[Voices from the hall: Me!]] You can't talk about it at all. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I propose that the proceedings be postponed. [[I'll read it to you!]] This is too important for us to vote on amendments which, in fact, the majority of the High House simply does not know. [[Applause]] [[I do!]] And this project is like a poisoned cherry cake that shouldn't be confused, because it only proves that you mustn't lean over such a badly prepared project, to which they made 100 amendments, and then 150 more. Is that what we're supposed to do? [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]] [[Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo!]] Why didn't you ask the Poles what they thought about this project? Because you were just scared. Where was the consultation? It wasn't. You can't do that. The Polish People's Party requests that the debate be postponed. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u331	Request for adjournment, good. Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u332	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I request the adjournment of the third reading of the bill on increasing the participation of citizens - a perverse title: citizens - in local elections. I'll try to justify it quickly. I know that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u333	Mr President, I am sorry, but such a proposal has already been made. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: But another justification.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: So what?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u334	Dear Marshal, Dear colleagues...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u335	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, listen to me, too. There may be a motion to adjourn or close the session of the Sejm... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: About closure.]] ...not about delaying the point. There is no formal application. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[The adjournment of the sitting.]] Yes, thank you very much. Mr Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Platform Club... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yes, hello? Mr Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. Thank you, sir. [[Voice from the courtroom: But, Marshal...]] Gentlemen... Excuse me, gentlemen, but take your seats. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal request for a break and a convocation of the Senior Convention. This proposal is undoubtedly very necessary for Members of this law, Members of Law and Justice, because they do not know what amendments they have tabled. If Mr Horala... excuse me, Mr Schreiber says that they tabled 17 amendments, then I have a question: Who has tabled 180 other amendments, Mr Schreiber? [[Voice from the room: You!]] If you don't know it, how can you investigate it? [[Applause]] How can you debate the Constitution when it comes to elections if you don't know what amendments you've made? This is completely ridiculous. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[The voice in the room: Your blood pressure's up.]] Mr. Marshal, if you could calm your piss buddies down because they're so nervous. [[Voice from the hall: Calm down yourself!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u337	Please justify the request, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u338	Mr. Marshal, we're investigating a very important issue. We proceed without any legal advice, we proceed without any opportunity for Members to get acquainted... [[Thoughts.]] ...with these amendments. I understand that Mr Schreiber, who, as an applicant, does not fully know how many amendments he has tabled, knows what matter is involved, but there are Members in this Chamber who have not worked in the Extraordinary Commission, and they also have the right to read the amendments. If we allow the Sejm to vote, without knowing the amendments, on the electoral code, we can say that we will create a great, great confusion when it comes to holding elections. I don't think it's about President Kaczyński being happy that tomorrow he won't have to get up in the morning and come to vote on this project. You can wait one day, you can give the Members time to read the amendments. This break is really necessary, you can see, even for Members of the applicants, because they themselves do not know what amendments they have tabled. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u339	Thank you. There's a request for a recess. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would very much ask that all clubs be treated the same way. I therefore request that this meeting be closed [[Joy in the Chamber]] and convene a meeting in a new year, with new energy and new reason. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u341	Closure of the sitting... Adjournment or closure - that's, let's face it, it can actually be considered to be, to a certain extent, the same... [[It's not the same.]] ...but there's the word "or," [[Joy in the Chamber]] I mean, I get it, we can treat it separately, too, according to classical logic. We therefore have four formal proposals, ladies and gentlemen. I'll put them to the vote next. The first proposal was to refer the bill to the committee. This proposal will now be put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of sending the bill back to the committee, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 198 voted against - 233, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Now, Mr Zgorzelski's request to adjourn the Sejm. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting of the Sejm will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 196, against 238, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Request for adjournment. This motion shall be put to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 198, against 237, and no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. And last request to close the sitting. [[Well, here's your chance.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to close the sitting of the Sejm, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 198 voted against - 237, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Well, we are returning to the issue raised by the Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, with a draft resolution on the commemoration of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. There was an objection to initiating the procedure in accordance with Article. 51 point 1. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Who reported it?]] I would ask you to clarify this objection, because, I remind you, art. 51 (1) reads: In particularly justified cases, the Sejm may shorten the proceedings with draft laws and resolutions by: (1) accession to first reading as soon as the Members have received the draft. And that's the essence of things. Would any of you like to... There you go, Mrs Siarkowska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think the joyous celebration of the events that divided the Church is a bad idea. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: To the stakes!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, in that case, we shall hold the following vote. There's an objection. We have to vote. [[May I speak on this matter?]] No, no, no. Ladies and gentlemen... [[But there's a vote against it.]] [[It's the opposite voice!]] A voice opposed to opposition? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It may be for a formal application. I'm so sorry, ma'am. There's no such thing as this. [[It was supposed to be a happy Christmas.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we vote on this draft resolution as follows: if the opposition is rejected, I will read the draft resolution and then either we can accept it by acclamation, or - if there is an objection to the adoption by acclamation - we will vote on the draft resolution. [[Okay.]] There's a formal conclusion. Please, Mr Richard Terlecki. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Formal conclusion!]] Now, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a situation that surprised us. I request that this draft be referred to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u345	Okay, there's a formal request for referral to the committee. [[Objection!]] [[Objection!]] Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment, there is one formal motion to be referred to the committee. [[Voice from the room: Murder!]] Are there other formal requests? [[It's against the law.]] Who's calling? [[Me.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mrs Pasławska with the opposite proposal.]] There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u346	Mr. Marshal! I'm filing a counterclaim. The justification is that the draft resolution was sent by your marshal to the committee... [[Is there an objection?]] ...but the committee didn't discuss it. If Mr. Marshal wishes to proceed at his next sitting, he will be unwarranted, because 2017 is the year of the 500th anniversary. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister Beata Szydło tweeted several days ago: Poland is a country of tolerance. [[And he's not the Prime Minister anymore.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I wish that tolerance wasn't selective. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a resolution... I do not know if you have read the resolution prepared by the Sejm Bureau. This is another resolution. It's not written against someone. It is written in an ecumenical spirit, in a spirit of confirmation of the values brought by Protestants, such as General Anders, such as... [[Voice from the room: Piłsudski.]] ...wizard, creator of Poland of independent Marshal Piłsudski. It is worth today, when we are just after Christmas meeting, really in the spirit of ecumenia and agreement to support this resolution. [[Applause]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo, Ula!]] Poland has always been a strong diversity. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland... All Protestants, all religions today look at you, as well as feel in some way disturbed, because the subjectivity of Protestants, evangelicals, Lutherans, Baptists has been taken away from them this year. [[How'd you get it? Don't lie to me!]] There's a chance to make it right. Today let's celebrate the 500th anniversary of the Reformation [[Applause]] and people - evangelicals, Protestants - who worked for Polish culture, Polish army and Polish security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u347	Thank you, Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[But louder, because we can't hear.]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, is filing a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u348	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There was an agreement, I'm filing a formal request for a recess, and I'm asking the marshal to convene during this recess of the Senior Convention. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already signaled many times that a draft resolution on the commemoration of the 500th anniversary of the start of the reformation is being held in the committee for no reason. We have applied twice to supplement the agenda with a point including the consideration of this draft resolution. I would like to remind you that at the very beginning of the week it was agreed that if the committee this week did not consider this draft resolution, then this resolution would be presented to the High House in the form of a proposal from the Bureau. Unfortunately, the chairman of the committee had a few days and could not convene a meeting, and in addition, this project has been in the marshal's staff almost since the beginning of October, i.e. the cultural committee for 2 months has not found the time, an hour to deal with this project. This is, ladies and gentlemen, frivolous conduct. The Convention, which took place at the beginning of the week, was agreed. This morning, also during the Convention, the Law and Justice Club did not object to the proposal for a presidential resolution, so I would ask that the Marshal announce a break, call the Senior Convention so that we can talk about it, because really such behaviour, I would say, goes far beyond the findings that have been made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u349	Thank you very much. [[And now there's a problem.]] [[Voice from the room: Break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, here's what we're gonna do: I'm gonna put the proposals to the vote, not in the order of notification. It'll be a precedent, but it's the marshal who decides. Ladies and gentlemen, first I will put to the vote a request for a break and a call for the Senior Convention. If a request for interruption is accepted, I will call the Senior Convention, although I planned to return to this matter tomorrow, before the next day of the meeting, at the Bureau and Convention meetings. If this proposal is accepted, I will call the Convention. I will then put to the vote a request for referral to the committee, because if it were to vote first on the request to refer it back to the committee and it was accepted, the request for a break would become pointless. [[Right.]] He'd just be unobtrusive. [[Very nice.]] In that case, we are voting on a formal request for a break. Who among you is in favour of announcing a break, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 197, against - 236, 1 Member abstained. The motion was rejected. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the formal request to refer the draft back to the committee. The following proposal shall be put to the vote. Who among you is in favour of referring the presidential draft resolution contained in print 2133 to the Committee on Culture and Media will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 232, against - 193, with seven abstentions. [[Shame!]] [[Disgraceful!]] I believe the motion has been accepted. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases. We proceed to the third reading. The additional report of the Committee on Printing No 2116-A will be presented by Robert Telus. [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. During the second reading, the Civic Platform tabled two amendments. The Commission calls on the High Sejm to reject these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u351	Thank you, sir. We will vote first on the amendments that the Member has spoken about. In the first amendment to Article. 4 Amendment 3 of the draft amending act propose that the district veterinarian be able to designate the veterinary surgeons referred to in the provision also to carry out official controls in the context of the control of infectious animal diseases. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Questions. Member of Dorota Sunday, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u352	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a request to support an amendment that really restores the dignity of veterinarians who work in veterinary inspections. Inspectors working at the moment 8 hours don't have an increased rate for their work. Yes, Minister Jurgel, you haven't raised the rate for people who are fighting against ASF, who can fight ASF and help us not to lose EUR 1.4 billion for pork exports, but to make them work overtime. You give them jobs and you say, "If you want to stay in inspection and make more money, you'll have jobs and work like the people who've been on strike lately." You tell them to work after eight hours the next eight hours, then they'll make a decent living. These doctors are 3,000, and the ASF will destroy the farm in our country, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That brings in a billion and nine hundred. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u353	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Jurgiel! This is a very serious problem, and you've been ignoring it for the past two and a half years. As you took over the Ministry of Agriculture, there were 3 ASF fires in Poland. Now how much is it? There are over 104 fires. [[How can there be over 104?]] Here's a map. I'll show you all what it looks like right now. ASF has already gone to the other side of the Vistula and it is actually done very much, but it is a very serious problem, which is why we should finally do something about it. Of course, this bill is a step in the right direction, but it's only two years after you've woken up that this bill needs to be implemented? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u355	Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When we were discussing ASF in the High House, we repeatedly advised the government to make changes to the rules adopted so that this fight could be effective. All our ideas have been rejected and the effect is that the ASF is spreading at a rapid rate. These amendments aim to help the State combat ASF. These are good corrections, improving the functioning of veterinarians. I ask you to change your position, if it is negative, and to support these amendments, so that you do not look for any more guilty ones who, in your opinion, are responsible for the spread of ASF. At last, look at it seriously. You can't deal with this, listen to the opposition's good voice, support these amendments. [[Applause]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo, Mirek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u357	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. In favour - 198, against - 235. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We're going to vote on the whole thing. There are questions to be asked in full by the Members. Member Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are voting on another specialty project to fix this, which is to eliminate the ASF problem. This problem - I suspect, as with the previous two laws - will not be eliminated. I have a question for the rapporteur to tell us how many farmers have been punished, in how many cases no compensation has been paid to farmers, and how many hunting circles or hunters have been punished for failing to guard their firing. The ASF passed behind the Vistula, the problem is not on farms that cease to exist, but in the fact that the Polish Hunting Union does not manage or does not want to cope with the shooting of wild boars, which in a moment will destroy the total production of pigs. According to NIK, it's gonna be $10 billion for nothing but damages in a minute. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u359	Please. Mr Dorota Niedziela, Club Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u360	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Once again, I ask the Minister of Agriculture to speak to the Minister of Finance and actually take the argument of the ASF's danger into account by increasing salaries for veterinarians. Allow the doctors of the Veterinary Inspection to get more money. Right now, it's about 2,000. Up to 3,000. Gross. Please note how important they are for the economy, and the Minister does not raise their salary, but tells them to work on orders for more than 8 hours. I ask you to support this amendment in the Senate, to raise... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, I am so sorry. ...the salary of veterinary surgeons and the Veterinary Inspection. This is the first flank to fight ASF. Maybe that's why you're not doing well, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This fight that you're underfunded by an inspection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u361	Thank you, Member. Mr Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Member, how do you know that?]] [[From GUS data, years of practice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u362	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister, it's for you. After the destruction of our power [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In the breeding of Arabian blood horses, the expansion of African swine fever is unfortunately your greatest success. Bravo, Minister. The most dynamic program of the PiS, because from three sources, from three fires as many as 104 fires in 2 years, ladies and gentlemen. We will of course support this law, not for the first time, because ASF is the most serious threat to Polish agriculture and to consumers who will not see Polish pork for a long time, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen, when's the end of the day? There were committee meetings, subcommittees, big books full of recommendations. When are the results, Minister? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u363	Please. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it's the fourth or fifth special. You're using -- I'm talking about the PiS -- the name, as if this law is already going to solve the problems that exist in fighting the ASF. Just as the previous laws were imprecise and weak, so is the imprecise and weak. She's basically two things. The first is the construction of fences, fences, barriers on the eastern border of the Republic of Poland, which is intended to prevent boars from entering Poland from the east. I don't want to say and say out loud again what they think is mean and what farmers think. Firstly, they say that it is late, secondly, that it will not work, because even the natural barrier of the river Vistula did not help limit the flow of ASF, and some say that the Germans will build a fence faster, so that ASF from Poland will not get into Germany, and yet others say that this barrier will benefit Belarus, because ASF from Poland will not move to Belarus. Why do you prepare such weak projects, so weak laws, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That doesn't change anything about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u365	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u366	Once you've prepared something decent, because if you don't... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u367	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The truth is, the ASF had to react very radically when we learned about what was going on across the eastern border. [[Applause]] It wasn't done. Then you just had to knock out the wild boars in the East Belt - that's the truth, unfortunately - to stop this storm. And here responsibility falls also on the previous government, not only on the one that works sluggishly in this case, but also on the previous one. I have a question for the Ministry of Agriculture in this context, because we have a critically endangered pig farm, 15 million PLN of loss per day. At this point, you want to attack the fur industry, and those who sympathize with you from organic organizations want to attack poultry cages. I ask you clearly: Are you sure you want to defend Polish agriculture? [[Applause]] [[You have to go to heaven.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u369	Thank you. At the moment, I will ask the Deputy Minister of Agriculture of Mr Rafał Romanowski to address these issues. [[Voice from the hall: How about Jurgel?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! The existing currency in our country is zlotys, so if 1600 million zlotys are 5400 million zlotys, then this is an explanation. Of course, the Commissioner raises the issue of the Veterinary Inspection. This change of law gives this possibility, not obligation, that is a very important difference. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another project, another special act, when it comes to fighting ASF. [[Voice from the O.R.: Let's do it, let's do it!]] If the behaviour of the predecessors, the Civic Platform and the PSL coalition, in 2014 were good, then in a situation where there were three fires, ministers, MPs would take action... [[How embarrassing are you?]] ...and no, my fellow Member, in the shadow of the Minister, based solely on scientific publications, you have said, my dear fellow Members, that healthy wild boars will deny the sick. [[Voice from the room: Where was the colleague then?]] And so with your approach, these healthy wild boars disowned the sick behind the line of the Vistula. So we're gonna make more laws and we're gonna... [[Did you work in this ministry?]] I have worked, Commissioner, and I will not engage in unnecessary divisives. [[But you're here to answer.]] We will take the right action within a joint administration to do everything we can to solve this problem, not act like in 2014, i.e. to remain without any response. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u371	Mr Robert Telus, draftsman of the committee, has yet to speak. [[I want to correct, Marshal.]] But you didn't quote your statement. Excuse me, ma'am. [[How can you not?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have already told this speaker several times that we should discuss the ASF a little more calmly, have more humility and not politicize. [[To my own place.]] I am very surprised that Members who were in those coalitions, even in the rank of ministers, vice-ministers, are doing this terrible thing - because it is a terrible thing for Polish agriculture - such a great policy. [[Applause]] [[Then get to work.]] If only when there were three... [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] It's a lie. The PSL Member screams it's a lie. Why is Mr Sawicki not taking the floor on this matter, and today on the committee, he said the same thing I say, so that there should be more humility and less politics on this matter? Why? Because he knows the case, he knows that if the ASF case were dealt with just like the Czechs, who, when there were three fires, fenced it up, eradicated the wild boars and the disease didn't go any further... And here were three fires and what did the Polish People's Party do with the Civic Platform? It's shot. But who? He shot Minister Kalemba. [[Applause]] And it was the only thing, the only thing you did that day, and you didn't do anything else. Today, you're doing nothing but politics. Polish agriculture is in great danger. [[Thanks to you guys.]] [[Voice from the room: Because of you.]] If you don't understand this, if you don't go beyond politics, so that we can work together on this... [[How long have you been together?]] ...that, ladies and gentlemen, you will be responsible for this. You didn't do anything then, and right now you're just doing politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u373	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as rapporteur for the committee, you should refer to the committee's report rather than have a political discussion. [[But you survived the marshal.]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are no corrections. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2116, without amendments, would like to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm adopted a law amending certain laws to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases. [[Applause]] [[Correct, Marshal.]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Formal conclusion, Mr Marshal.]] We would like to refer to item 14 of the agenda: The report of the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee and the Committee on Territorial Government... [[Mr. Marshal, corrigendum, yeah.]] Member, I apologize. I've got to get some regular attention... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...Mrs. Dorothy Sunday because you're beginning to prevent me from holding a session of the Sejm. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Formal conclusion, Mr Marshal.]] [[You are preventing a Member from speaking.]] [[This is crazy.]] [[In substance, I wanted to ask you.]] And please take this as the first warning under Article. 175. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Request for a break for the club.]] [[But there's the head of the club.]] We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of organisational units, auxiliary units of municipalities, buildings, objects and devices of general interest and monuments and the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2128-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Czesław Sobierajski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs to present an additional report on the draft law amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system, a word about decommunization of public space. The bill is short, it is about speeding up this process so that we can finally celebrate the celebration of independence in a space free from the relics of communism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u375	Please. The formal proposal was submitted by the secretary Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u376	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask for a break so Minister Romanowski can correct his lies he has made... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...with this speaker on the tragedy of farmers who have been struggling for two years for your inability to cope with the growing problem of African swine fever. Not from today you have a problem with math. 1 is more than 27, 3 is more than 104. You took over when there were 3 fires 15 km from the border with Belarus. Now these outbreaks are 104, and the ASF has crossed the natural barrier of the Vistula River and is heading towards western Poland, where the largest pig farms are, i.e. towards Wielkopolska and Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodships. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Your inability, your sloppyness. The prescriptions you had when you were in opposition didn't work. It was a wrong, bad activity for the Polish village. You destroy the Polish village, you destroy the pig farm, you can't handle it. Apologize to the Poles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u377	Okay, there's a request for a recess, a motion against, which means we're voting. If we vote against the vote... [[But what's the vote against?]] ...it is no longer necessary to justify it unless it is absolutely necessary for Mr President to do so. [[But the break for the club was.]] [[Voice from the room: He didn't say.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 190, against 238. The motion was not accepted. We're back to 2128. The additional report presents amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 1 6 Act on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of organizational units, auxiliary units of municipalities, buildings, objects and public utility devices and monuments. The committees are asking, I remind you, to reject this amendment. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, you want to make this happen within 30 days, and if the local government does not change its name within 30 days, it does so by voivodeship's decree. You've led to this, for example. In Gdańsk voivode wants to change ul. Dąbrowszczaków on ul. Lech Kaczyński... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...which met with the great opposition of the inhabitants, especially as the opinions on the evaluation of the Dąbrowszczaks are divided. Just wait until you change the name of our river queen, because she was... [[That's what she said yesterday.]] ...recognized as a crime of communist action of the Vistula. [[Weak.]] Think about it, please, and withdraw this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u379	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 164 voted against - 263, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording in Article. 3 draft amending act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u380	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of today's law of the council of municipalities, councilmen, residents can call streets, squares, squares, airports, gasports, as they have, the name of President Lech Kaczyński? They can. [[Name, name.]] [[Yes.]] The problem is, you guys are making this bill. If some community doesn't want to, some people don't want to, they have a name, you call the street Lech Kaczyński by force. This is not a worthy celebration of President Kaczyński's memory... [[Very worthy.]] ...to force people to live on a street like this if they just don't want to. There used to be a joke. Who's your hero and why Lenin? You'll lead to exactly the same situation. People won't want to force it. This has nothing to do with democracy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u381	Mr President, your speech does not concern the second amendment. [[But please, Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u382	If the municipalities have no right to decide the street name, what do they have? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u383	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, has the floor. I merely ask you to ask questions relating to the second amendment concerning Article. 3.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is terrible. She just divides society. That's what you want. Prime Minister Morawiecki and Prime Minister Gliński want the Palace of Culture and Science destroyed. Gentlemen, I'm surprised at the minimalism. [[Voice from the hall: Away with the commune!]] After all, Warsaw is one great architectural relic of communism. [[Voice from the room: Search at your place.]] Gentlemen, wouldn't it be better to bomb the whole of Warsaw? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u385	Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor. I would remind you that questions should be asked regarding the second amendment and not at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems to some Members that if they have an organ of speech, they can come in here and talk nonsense. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is simple. If anyone doesn't know the story, learn it. Let him know who the Dabrovszczians were, and let him know who we commemorated. Ladies and gentlemen, there are city councils in Poland, communal councils, which perpetuate the relics of communism as a result of omission, laziness or ideological engulfment. The example is Wadowice. Only thanks to the Małopolska voivodeship, we managed to change the name relating to the fixatives of communism. For that, the city council that doesn't should pay. I have a question for the applicants, which led them to propose such a forced solution. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a forced solution, but necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u387	Of course, I would like to remind you that this amendment concerns the implementation of the replacement arrangements. Please, Mr Dominik Tarczyński, Mr Law and Justice has the floor. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask what is the difference between the Communists who murdered and who wanted to bury the memory of the cursed soldiers, about the heroes, about those who fought for Poland, with Lech Kaczyński, etc. A president whose memory you also want to bury to be forgotten. We won't forget. I also want to bring up my private subject. My grandfather was the commandant of the National Armed Forces... [[Don't scream.]] ...my family was persecuted, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] My parents, and you wanted to bury his memory, too. We will not forget President Lech Kaczyński under his coat... [[Vaseline.]] ...pseudoctoring administrative. It's hero time. Praise the heroes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u389	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 170 votes against - 263. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the whole project. Except that the Members have asked questions before. Member of Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u390	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! A year ago, this House adopted a law on decommunising those remains that have not yet been decommunised in the names of the streets. We've all almost voted for it. Today, the dispute is about the procedure that is being used and the amendment I tabled was intended to extend the negotiations between the IPN and the municipalities' councils until 30 June, as well as to encourage the municipalities' councils, which have not yet taken action to do so. approx. 60/70% We've got a change. We are talking about a small remnant of streets that are still largely negotiated with the IPN. I have a question for the applicant: Do you confirm that there are still about 700 names for which IPN has not replied, or should these names be changed? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u391	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have adopted this bill and decommunised it. You can, but with your head, asking the villagers' opinion. This was not the case in Katowice when Wilhelm Szewczyk's square was called Maria and Lech Kaczyński's square. Do not be surprised that the Silesians oppose this. [[Applause]] [[Speak for yourself.]] You cannot appreciate the people who contributed to Silesia's culture and work. You don't ask the residents what they think. And that is your duty - to understand that we, the inhabitants of Katowice, want to talk about what street we want to live in. If you want to decommunize, start by decommunising your ranks first. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u393	I would ask you, however, that this be in the form of questions addressed to the representative of the applicants or the rapporteur. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the rapporteur. We're talking about forced decommunization here. How many of these towns are in Poland? What is the scale of this problem? How many towns have complied with this, and how many have not? If there are few of them, perhaps the rapporteur will be able to give some examples. I am particularly interested in examples from Opole, whether there are places in Opole that did not want to decommunize, which is an incomprehensible action for me, because, as we know, communism, as far as its criminality is concerned, is not much different from Nazism, and as for the fact that it is necessary to denazify and that the denazification has been carried out, nobody had any doubts, and there are some doubts about it. about decommunization. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u395	Thank you. One of the questions was addressed to the applicant's representative. Mr Krajewski will answer, will he? The question was asked by Bogusław Sonik. Jarosław Krajewski, the applicant's representative, is responsible. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u396	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Questions have been raised as to the purpose of the applicants presenting this bill. We wanted Poland to be a country free from communist relics from the past on the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. [[Peterovich!]] And that's a very important goal that we should have in common when it comes to getting rid of each other. [[Game in the O.R.]] those monuments and street names that glorify totalitarian systems, including the communist system. As for the scale of street names that still remain to be changed, it is worth recalling that until recently we had streets: Red Army, Felix Dzierżyński, Karol Świerczewski, Wanda Wasilewska, and unfortunately for 27 years local governments did not exercise their right to give names to these streets. [[Where was Wanda Wasilewska Street?]] [[In Lublin.]] Therefore, 1 April [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] 2016 The Sejm adopted a decounization law which gave every local government 12 months to change the names that glorified the totalitarian system, most often the communist system. For 12 months, many local governments have exercised this right and made such changes, but some local governments... We know what the number is, because the case concerns about 400 local governments among 2.5 thousand. Polish municipalities. There are self-governments who have shown idleness and ignorance of the law and have made no changes. In such a case, the legislator should react so that the voivode has a real right to enforce the law. All local governments are equal to the law and there can be no local governments headed by the presidents of the Civic Platform and who do not intend to get rid of the communist street names... [[It's like Warsaw.]] ...or communist monuments, as in Warsaw, where to this day stands a monument so-called. gratitude to the Soviet Army near the National Stadium in Skaryszewski Park. The Warsaw authorities lacked this courage for 11 years under the Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: What about Lech Kaczyński?]] [[Jarek, who was the president before Gronkiewicz-Waltz?]] I would like to tell you that there are still some 560 communist monuments in public space throughout the country that are falsifying history. And we are in favour of basing our national identity on historical truth. I think this is a matter that should be combined, and any Member who will vote against this law should consider whether he is defending the Red Army or Felix Dzierżyński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And for three years, why didn't Lech Kaczyński change?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u397	The rapporteur of the committee, Czesław Sobierajski, asks for the floor. There was one question for your Member, as I recall.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I wanted to say exactly what my colleague just said. It was a longer line, and I'm just gonna concentrate on one thing. [[But it's six months, sir, six months.]] When we passed the bill on 1 April of that year, we gave 12 months and that time expired on 2 September. The Voyeur then has... 3 months passed on December 2nd. So? And 60%, about half of it wasn't done. Who is the Polish state's right? Every municipality? [[People are the subject, sir.]] Decommunization of space - to decide the state, the mayor or the higher right? In order to implement this law, which we have passed, we need an amendment, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] speed things up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u399	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2128 will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the hall: Away with the commune!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 264 voted against - 161, 6 Members abstained. [[Applause]] The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of organisational units, auxiliary units of municipalities, buildings, objects and public utilities and monuments and the Act on the Amendment of the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. We return to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the law amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims. The Sejm carried out the first reading and decided to immediately join the second reading of the bill. No one spoke at second reading. We proceed to the third reading. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u400	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the PiS! This bill is the best proof of how inefficient you make the law. This bill best shows how unprepared you are to rule and what consequences is the fact that you completely do not listen to the opposition and sometimes even your surroundings. Today, before the voting block, we had three more laws that were about to dismiss the entry into force of the various solutions that you wanted to implement at the beginning of the new year or a moment later. This elimination of the upper limit of the contribution to the Social Security Office, in which even the Social Security Office said it would not make time, is the introduction of a split payment mechanism, where everyone said that you had given too short a period for the implementation of the system, and finally the law on which we will now vote, concerning the register of public debts which was to be implemented soon and with which you also failed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you can't implement new innovative solutions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u401	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u402	...so just don't offer them. [[Applause]] [[Let them learn the transfers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u403	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2131 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 400 voted in favour, 26 abstained, no one voted against. The Sejm has passed a law amending the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the draft law amending certain laws in order to increase citizens' participation in the selection, operation and control of certain public authorities. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2113-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Additional report by the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws on the draft law amending certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the selection, operation and control of certain public authorities, print No 2001. Marshal of the Sejm at the 54th meeting of the Sejm on 13 December 2017 pursuant to Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 2113 to the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws for the purpose of examining proposals and amendments tabled at second reading. The Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws after considering proposals and amendments at its meeting on 13 December 2017 recommends that the High Sejm adopt the draft with positive amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u405	Thank you, Member. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety and then, if the proposal fails, we will vote on other amendments. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Piotr Zgorzelski, club of the Polish People's Party. [[Fight, Peter, fight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Law and Justice! What was that for? You can't compromise the legislative process more than you did. [[Applause]] Last week you defended Czestochowa's changes to the electoral code. After the sudden return of the action, the silence went silent and you reported 250 amendments. Shame. [[Applause]] It's the consequence of a revolutionary fever. First you think, then you do. Discredited. It's best to throw this project in the trash and save yourselves the embarrassment. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And PSL does first and then thinks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u407	Mr Mariusz Witczak, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u408	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is undoubtedly part of a series of anti-democratic actions that the Law and Justice have been taking for two years. I told you yesterday, and I'm gonna tell you again that you went to the Far East two years ago. You reach Moscow alone with this bill, you reach the Kremlin. It's the truth about this bill. [[It's not in the Far East.]] It's Putin's party - it's Putin's party, listen - he's writing his own electoral ordination...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u409	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u410	... She's cutting up her own constituency...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u411	...to speak according to the seriousness of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u412	... It is itself, Marshal, that he organizes elections, controls them, including judicial control.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u413	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u414	You are now taking over the Supreme Court...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u415	Don't compare the Sejm of the Republic of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u416	...and build, Mr. Marshal, an essential for the dictator. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[PiS-u!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u417	...to those institutions you mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u418	The decision on the validity of the elections on the part of the court, the decision on the supervision and control of the elections. It's the truth about this bill. High Izbo! This bill needs to be... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u419	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor. I would like to draw your attention to the seriousness of the Sejm, in the interest of the seriousness of the Sejm. [[But Mr. Marshal, yours please pay attention. It's already outrageous.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u420	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! No one can have any doubt that political amateurs, people who have no idea of the legislative process, have taken part in the drafting of this bill. The law was inconsistent, overturned the electoral system, threatened to paralyze in next year's elections, deprived people with disabilities and Poles abroad of the possibility to vote in correspondence. Of course, which is always in almost every law, she was to submit to the State Election Commission, the National Election Office of the PiS party. This bill isn't suitable for proceding. You've admitted that by making more than 250 amendments. This law is in no way suitable for adoption, and I therefore request that it be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u421	Thank you. Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u422	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Such silence will be when you vote on all these amendments and minority proposals, because you will not know what you are voting on. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Absolutely, bravo.]] That's not true. You're deceiving society. In three weeks, we've been investigating this process. That's not enough, now we have so many amendments that have been handed over to our offices at hours. 17.20, and all those amendments to the minority proposals, briefly... I'll ask you what the amendment asks if you know what you're voting for. And that's not true. You're cheating, this Sejm is cheating society. [[Applause]] You're politicians, not politicians! You're proof that one-mandate electoral districts will be here someday. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u423	I would also like to point out to you that you use the words... [[Like what?]] ...which must be regarded as words that violate the seriousness of the Sejm. [[One-mandat, he doesn't like one-mandat.]] [[Which one, marshal?]] Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you on behalf of Wrzedlice and Wróciszow Górny, because out of this legislative chaos, the councilman emerges from these two villages I come from, but he will stay. That's great. But I don't really know what we're going to vote on today because you've made so many of these amendments, at the last moment, that there really is one big legislative chaos. And the truth is... What does it say, except it's quick, it's made of crazy? Well, that tells me that you guys don't have that thoughtful... [[A voice from the room: Right!]] ...that you don't know what the political intention is. Because you can do something fast, you can do something last minute, you can even press your knee, but you need to know what you want, and you don't know. Unfortunately, proceding this bill resembles a phrase from the fairytale of Madagaskar, in which King Julian shouts: Now quickly, before we realize that what we are doing is stupid. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u425	Marcin Horała, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's still bad, and it's not good. See, we are criticized for listening to the opposition, the social side, the local government during our work in the committee, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] for having accepted several amendments to the opposition. [[You don't know what's in here. This is a mess!]] As I understand it, you are sorry now that you cannot criticize your own proposals that, at last, at second reading, we went further, we reached out, we compromised. That also happens to be critical, which bothers you. On the other hand, when we talk about the quality of the legislative process, we have heard so much about the thorough work on the electoral code, the multiannual code, etc. And what did it turn out to be? A few months after the adoption of that code - eight amendments, ladies and gentlemen. That was some legal shit. After a few years, eight times to revise the code. High Izbo! Please reject the motion to reject the entire bill. [[About rejecting the bill?]] It contains a number of pro-Citizen solutions, giving additional powers to citizens, affecting the integrity of elections, and the proposal to reject the law is therefore unfounded. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u427	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u428	Thank you, Marshal. The Union of European Democrats, despite these arguments which Mr Horał had just said, still recommends the rejection of this project at first reading, despite even the withdrawal from many nonsensical and compromising amendments. My question to the applicants: Is there any other reason for such preparation of the bill and such a process of proceding the bill and changing the status of commissioners from judges to officers appointed by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration rather than trying to manipulate and deceive Poles in the forthcoming elections? Do you not believe that a good change in Poland really likes it? You don't like it. Don't you believe in polls? Don't believe it. You're gonna lose this election. You will lose the municipal, parliamentary and presidential elections, and for those forgeries you are planning, you will answer. [[Applause]] [[Worry about yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u429	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 193 voted against - 233, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority applications Nos 27, 28, 33 and 49 were withdrawn by applicants. In the 1st minority proposal, applicants propose to give the bill a different title. Its adoption will result in the futility of proposals 2 and 3 and the 1st amendment. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the false and hypocritical title of this law is a symbol not only of intent but also of the style in which it was proceded. At an express rate, without consulting the local community, without consulting the constitutionalists. Whatever you say, before the opposition speaks, you've already tabled 131 amendments to this bubble. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a total of 250 amendments in the 18th Article Act. Guinness's record. [[Applause]] Congratulations to the esteemed applicants. [[Competence.]] You could laugh at it or joke about it if it wasn't for a very serious piece of legislation, the electoral code that will decide whether there will be free, democratic, fair elections in Poland or not. We're not authorized to do that. My question is, why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to manipulate the electoral code...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u431	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u432	...less than a year before the election? [[Voice from the room: There is no consent to en. Deal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u433	The question is asked by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Member of the Commission - Mr Pięk, Mr Horala, Mr Schreiber - you have been put on a landmine and you are incredibly insisting on doing everything you can to make this bill pass. Mr. Schreiber had already been put on a mine and motion, and the bill had to be rejected. Why do you want to be the authors of such a scandalous project that everyone laughs at? [[I don't.]] It's a mess, it's a mess, and it's a disgrace, gentlemen. No need to laugh, you're young messengers, this is your first term here. Do you want to please your principle? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u435	Madam, please ask a question about... [[Mr. Marshal, control yourself.]] [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: I have an amendment - amendment of the bill.]] Not about you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 193 voted against - 229, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority proposal, applicants propose to give the bill a different title. The adoption of this proposal will result in the nullity of the 3rd minority proposal and the 1st amendment. The question is asked by Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Honourable Members of the Applicant! In line with the methodology you have adopted in relation to the criteria for electoral commissioners, it is certainly important that they cannot be judges. But why do you allow judges to be commissioners in elections that take place six months after the local elections to the European Parliament? This shows that what you're doing is one big legislative slop. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u437	Thank you. I would just ask, ladies and gentlemen, questions should be asked about the second minority request, not at all. Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u438	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Well, you will not be able to ask questions about minority proposals, because if you know them, you know them only in the face of your club, and other Members do not know the content of these minority proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose in these... [[These aren't our conclusions.]] I'm gonna act professionally against appearances. Well, that's the title we're proposing, that's the title. Before the proposals, amendments at second reading in committee: amending certain laws to increase the influence of political parties on the activities of local government. I would like to inform you that we have tabled such an amendment, which is a proposal. And now the next professional behavior that you are preventing in this Parliament: the 2nd proposal, that is, in your 3rd proposal, we will unfortunately learn, will look like this. The state in sloppyness forgot about the correct legislation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It sounds like a change to the Municipal Government Act... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Very nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u439	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every time the PiS tries to pass a controversial bill, it invokes the will of the sovereign. That is also the case this time, but you do not have a mandate to invoke this sovereign's will. The title of the bill is false and needs to be changed. The aim of the PiS is not to increase the control of citizens in the selection of public authorities. Nor is it about giving tools to control the functioning of local authorities. You're just trying to make a jump on local governments, just like this. You've done with the public media, the Constitutional Tribunal, and just like you do with the judiciary. The changes proposed by you are only intended to pave the way for your party to take power in local governments. You can't win this election in an honest way, which is why you're tampering with the electoral ordination. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u441	Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u442	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The minority proposal concerns the title of the law, because this title is indeed inadequate. This is not a law to increase the participation of citizens in anything. This is the law on the party's leading role in organising elections that have so far been to be free elections. [[Applause]] Yeah, about the party's leading role. 'Cause who's gonna point to the head of the State Election Commission? Vice President PiS Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. [[You haven't read the project.]] Who's gonna point to the de facto electoral commissioners? Actually, it's a PiS. Who's gonna point over 2.5,000? electoral officials? On whose recommendation will they fill these functions? PiS-u. In recent days, the U.S. Department of State has pointed out that there is no freedom of expression in Poland, that you are breaking this principle. The U.S. Department of State has pointed out that you are violating the independence of the judiciary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want this bill to be... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u443	Thank you, sir. Mr Dominik Tarczynski, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have one question because there's a war on JOWs, and Kukiz's army is ready to give their lives for them. So I have a question: Where is your General Paweł Kukiz? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: He's sick.]] Ah! There isn't. Probably like the Roman senator lying there eating dinner. Thank you. [[A stir in the courtroom, a joy in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: What was that?]] [[Mr. Marshal, what is this? Is that a substantive question?]] [[And where was Kaczyński, when the martial law started, ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u445	However, I would ask you to ask questions about it. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, we have every right to respond.]] Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 181 voted against - 232, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Mr. Marshal, a little respect.]] [[Voice from the room: Was that about?]] Gentlemen, take the seats indicated in the Rules of Procedure by the Marshal of the Sejm. Don't make it harder for you to vote. In the third minority proposal, applicants propose to give a different title to the bill. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 1st amendment. The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Jaskoła, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u446	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dominic, I would ask you to have respect for a man... [[Where is he?]] [[Voice from the room: What do you care?]] [[At least he's sober, Dominic.]] ...who's sick. And now I would like to show you professionally what the minority request is about. The title is yes, it is to all countries: on the amendment of the law on municipal self-government, the law on county self-government, the law on regional self-government and the law on electoral code. This is the right legislative title. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u447	Thank you. Of course, it's not about voivodship, it's about voivodship. That's what the title should be. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Take cover!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I have a request that you take your subjects into discipline because they're disturbing you. High Izbo! In the name of this law are the words: increasing the participation of citizens in the selection process. And what's in the bill itself? This law deepens discrimination, this law eliminates the correspondence vote used by older, disabled and independent people. [[Applause]] In the second round of the presidential elections, 57 000 votes were registered in this form. Poles, Poles and Poles, voters. Today, this law does not increase the participation of citizens in the selection process, but this participation is hindering. Where is the representative of the government for: Equal treatment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where is the representative of the government for: Disabled people?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u449	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u450	They should... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u451	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u452	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask: What have the disabled people done to Members of the PiS that you are telling them that by taking this right away, you are increasing your ability to take part in elections? This is ridiculous. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u453	On behalf of the applicants? Mr Schreiber, on behalf of the Members of the applicants. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It can be said that when you listen to these statements, that actually Members who went on the stand were telling us that their colleagues were right, that they did not know the project, that they did not know what they were going to vote on. Mr Grabc seems to think that the Head of the State Election Commission will be pointing out to the Minister of Home Affairs. Please indicate the article in this law which states this. Other countries are talking about the correspondence vote. I'm going to refer to this, but we're at a point on one of the absurd conclusions of the minority that you're trying to give a different title to the bill. And what are the conclusions of the minority? What do they sound like? The stubbornness of the local elections. I think it somehow reflects your logic and your desire, because if you accept all your amendments, maybe that's how it would end. On behalf of the applicants, I would like to point out that we will oppose the process of stubborning the local elections and will not allow the opposition to do so. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Let Błaszczak vote for everyone.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u455	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 107 votes against - 230, 87 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose that the bill be given a different title. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u456	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! My previous speaker asked the High House to make a joke, saying that the PiS would object to the stubbornness of the electoral process. After all, you do nothing else, you have no intention other than to make the State Election Commission stubborn. But going back to this amendment, to the topic: usually the name of the bill indicates those laws that are simply changing. You wanted to give a special title to this law, suggesting that you would increase the participation of citizens in the exercise of power, control and functioning. No, you're wrong, ladies and gentlemen. In this bill you are really increasing the power of one man - the president of Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u457	No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 173 voted against - 228, 15 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Minority requests from 4 to 9 have been made in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Municipal Government Act. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 5a applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 4. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u458	Mr. Marshal! But what Mr. Marshal has read at the moment is the best proof of this - about, quiet, interested, you will learn something - that we do not know what we are voting on, because you do not know what you are reading, because this record we are proposing is not talking about a new record, it is talking about deleting words. It's something completely different. [[Applause]] I mean, you just don't know... [[That's a new record.]] The fact that Tarczynski doesn't know what he's voting on is normal, but you all don't know what you're voting on in this situation. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mr. Marshal! It's very serious because you're bringing it in. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I mean, this bill... Municipalities make civic budgets without your help. You're saying that you're introducing civil budgets with this bill, but here's the record that you're saying there's civic budgets, that the council of the municipality can change the budget -- that's the job that was -- if it finds that it needs to be changed. So people voted, there's a citizen's budget, and it can be changed. We ask that this be a real citizen's budget. And when we talk about counting, [[♪ The bell ♪]] level, lines... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u459	Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u460	Let me finish...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u461	Please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u462	I politely asked for one sentence... [[But, Marshal...]] [[Game in the hall, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u463	On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I draw your attention, I call you to order. Mr Sosnowski, you're welcome. Then remember...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u464	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's something I don't understand anymore. Mr Schreiber had just come out and argued to all Poles that by speaking to people with disabilities, citizens' participation in the electoral process is increasing. Mr President, please don't make fun of ordinary citizens. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u465	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 190 voted against - 231, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. 5a applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 5. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u466	Dear Marshal, We should all want this debate to take place seriously. I asked you to say one thing, I politely asked you, and you gave me a warning, and you will punish me in a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u467	Please refer to the minority's request, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u468	And that's the level of debate. This is another bullshit in this bill. Think about what you're doing. You write in the bill that there is to be a certain level of civil budget in the Grodzki powiats, but you forget about other counties, you forget about municipalities. Someone just made an amendment, didn't read it for lack of time, and you're gonna create a mess, not a real bill. Our amendment aims to ensure that the level is everywhere. And seriously, let's take this debate seriously. Second thing. We say there's no Kukiz who's sick. Everyone has the right to get sick. But, Marshal, I'd like to ask you where you are...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u469	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u470	...Judge Hermelinski and why he's not here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u471	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are not talking about any more.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u472	Perhaps you can inform the High House why you do not want to be in this debate. Thank you for letting me ask you a question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u473	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 189, against - 232, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 2nd amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. The 16th Municipal Government Act. Amendments 6 and 8 align with this amendment. Their adoption will result in the nullity of minority proposals 6, 10 and 13. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u474	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is an example of a great legislative error and chaos. A solution that is not as important as extending the term of office from 4 to 5 years for local government, an amendment at second reading, is not introduced. Even the Legislative Bureau protested such action. Ladies and gentlemen! This had to be discussed, it had to be consulted with the local community and possibly made decisions. [[Self-government is in favour!]] The Civic Platform had a huge dilemma as to how to behave in such a situation, because we need to consider this case together with the introduction of cadence for the ladies, mayors and presidents. The term of office, the limitation of passive electoral rights, the limitation of the possibility to act in this position for up to 8 years has led us to decide [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nevertheless, support these amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u475	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm really impressed because the whole right side is all geniuses - within 20 minutes they were able to adopt a hundred and a few dozen amendments. I'm really impressed, this is really Guinness's record.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u477	Mr President, I would like to ask you a question. Please refer to the second amendment. [[Mr. Marshal, don't censor me. You're gonna learn how to fix things, that's all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u478	As regards this amendment, this was the amendment tabled by the Modern Parliamentary Club. It is a pity that this debate, which followed up, was not the way it should have been, because the Legislative Bureau's comments were ignored at all. Therefore, the question is: Why do you adopt a law that decides for decades about the Polish local government system at such a rate and under such conditions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Let's hope so.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u479	I would remind you that the questions should be raised regarding the 2 amendments. Mr Horała, Member of the Law and Justice Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were voices here that you should have talked to local government officials. Is it true that this is a request made by local government officials, by a local government party in expert reports that were allegedly not on the committee and which were provided to committee members? When it was mentioned at such a rate just now, is it true that the work on the Act is already a month from its submission that the work of the Extraordinary Commission lasted two weeks? Perhaps it would have taken a little less time if the opposition state had not discussed the title of the law for hours if they had not submitted several hundred formal proposals to settle. Everyone could take the floor, all day was for free discussion, everyone could take the floor at any point, former constitutionalists, former representatives of local corporations, social organizations. That was all, so don't really lie, don't tell that to Members who haven't been to committee. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And they don't know how the work was done. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u481	Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u482	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Horala, you are not telling the truth. There was no public consultation, you did not consult with local authorities, with NGOs, with citizens. It wasn't there, and don't lie to me. I have a question for the applicants. On the basis of what studies, what calculations, from which do you assume that the term of office should be extended to five years? Or is it better to do it up to six years? In 2014 38% Warriors, presidents and mayors have lost their jobs. In our view, this is a sufficient correction mechanism. You don't have to spend your life on self-governments, reducing your term to two. If you want to make a life for others, let's start with each other, let's introduce a two-channel, also for Members. You're gonna need it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[How much are you in the Seym?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u483	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2, 6 and 8 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 413 voted against - 14, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Attention, amendment, Mr President.]] [[You have no idea!]] 6. the minority's request is irrelevant. In the third amendment, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 (3). It's connected to the fifth amendment. We will vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the nullity of the 9th minority proposal. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for these amendments to be adopted. Members ask questions. Member of Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your sloppyness causes us to support a number of your amendments. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Drama.]] We have to. And in this case, we have to. Incidentally, from now on, the concept of "something to shred" will have a different meaning. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u485	Mr President, please refer to the amendment and not... [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[But what kind of comment is that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u486	Well, you wanted the treasurers to be appointed exclusively by the mayor. You were gonna take it off... [[Voice from the room: But that's not the point.]] ... to protect in the form of a vocation by the council of the municipality. It's a basic formula for caring for self-government finances, a basic formula when you have to countersign the treasurer. That's the question. Decide: Do you want to strengthen the mayors or weaken them? I understand that you want to strengthen where they rule and weaken where they don't rule, but so far you can't write it down in law. But there are three young Members, and you'll be in charge for another two years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u487	Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u488	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to ask if Mr. Marshal can tell us what we're voting on right now, and I don't think Mr. Marshal would answer. In a moment there will be a block tied up, among others. with treasurers. However, ladies and gentlemen, I will insist on showing that what is happening in our House is only taking form... It doesn't matter what I say now. It doesn't matter that exactly... [[Touchdown, applause]] [[There's no time.]] No, it doesn't matter. The roles have already been divided. Please note how the legislative process... [[It's time to ask about the amendment.]] ...he treats himself in our Seym. We process one of the most important documents 3 weeks and prints... [[Marshal, is that a question?]] Yes. Question? Then show the marshal what we're voting on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u489	Thank you. Mr Jacek Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Krzysztof.]] Sorry, Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u490	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Members of the applicant whether in the whirlpool of this atmosphere that thickens over them in the club you are aware that you are taking this law another step towards getting Poland out of the European Union. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And its records, and the method of proceding, removes us from the European circle of values and European regulations concerning the local government system. The question is, are you aware that... [[They're aware, they're aware.]] ...after pushing through this... [[Voice from the room: He doesn't know what he's saying.]] ...the only direction you will have - you are also young people - will unfortunately be the east of Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u491	On behalf of the applicants? There you go, Mr Schreiber, on behalf of the applicants. [[Please answer my question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There seems to be some limits to hypocrisy, but if you look at this debate, you can say there isn't. High Izbo! I was reminding you how scandalously you acted as Members of the PO and PSL Act on OFE, how you plundered 150 billion PLN for Poles. [[A beautiful role model, a beautiful role model.]] Let me remind you, High Izbo, and other projects. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Draft Act on Change... [[Stop it. Sit down.]] ...laws on the operation of hard coal mining. Beginning January 8th... [[Mr. Marshal, are you deaf?]] ... January 15th vote. A week. I'll also remind you how you voted, how you tried to reform your pension... [[What's he talking about?]] ...as a result of which you broke your social contract... [[Well, that's not about it.]] ...with Poles: April 20 - impact, May 11 - vote. How can you say... [[Don't embarrass yourself.]] ...after all this debate at committee meetings, after hearing and letting all those who... [[The term of office will pass, shame will remain.]] ...and reported that anything had been broken in this case. It's really dirty. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The amendment concerns treasurers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u493	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. There were 409 votes against - 14, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and paragraph 2. 2ba and Article 29a paragraph. 2 and 3 Municipal Government Act. Amendments 7, 9, 17, 20, 24, 26, 29, 31, 33, 38, 68, 69, 74, 76, 79, 87, 91, 92, 95, 96, 98, 99, 100, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 118, 119, 126, 127, 128, 130, 143, 149, 151, 152, 154, 156... [[There aren't enough of those corrections.]] ... 157... 159... 161... 162... 164... [[17 amendments.]] ... 166., 167, 168., 173. and 182. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 16 and its related amendments and Amendments 181, as well as minority proposals 17, 24, 26, 31, 32, 36, 67, 68, 69, 70, 75, 78, 81, 82, 85, 86, 87, 94, 95, 96, 114, 115, 120, 121, 122, 136, 137, 138, 127, 134, 135 and 144. [[Applause]] [[Do you know what this is about?]] [[Bravo, Marshal!]] Mr Walda Dzikowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we've worked for two years with people and for people, creating the electoral code. And these aren't populisms. We have often learned from them, and we have created the electoral code, which is not an electoral pyramid and is not for politicians. It's a code that people are supposed to use, not politicians. You, gentlemen of the applicant, after 60 hours...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u495	Mr President, please refer to the 4th amendment. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u496	...you've turned the wheel and you've found yourself [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] at the starting point. And ironic smiles are not smiles towards us because you have capitulated from shame, fear and knowledge.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u497	Mr President, I would very much like you to refer to Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u498	Before that, you capitulated. This is a disaster. [[The voice from the hall: A Schreiber is what?]] It was a farce and nothing more. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I would advise you to always learn from those who stand in front of people and look them in the eye. It's just an election scam. And what was created is a caricature...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u499	I'm asking you again to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u500	... The electoral code. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u501	...spoken about Amendment 4. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[But, Marshal, don't interrupt.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u502	Please, please, louder. Mr. Marshal! You've read the numbers of several dozen amendments. I know you don't know what's in those amendments. [[Voice from the room: But we know.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what this amendment is about? [[Voice from the room: We know.]] This amendment is about the Blaszczak army, [[Applause]] army of the Blaszczaks who are coming to [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Local Poland. Yes, sir. One Błaszczak at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the other Błaszczak...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u503	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that this is how you violate the seriousness of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u504	...in the ABW, two Błaszczaks as commissioners... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, what do you allow? What do you want?]] ...political [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And 5,000. The Błaszczaks as electoral officials. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u505	Mr President, I will have to take away your voice. In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I must draw your [[And Blaszczak is an insult?]] Please don't disturb me. In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[But he's already off the stand.]] Next time I'll find that you're preventing the Sejm's deliberations from being held, and that involves an article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4. Please read this article. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[Ay, they don't like the Minister, they don't like you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! I have a question about amendments 4, 7, 9, 11, 17, 20, 24, [[Long-term applause, joy, excitement in the hall]] 26, 29., 31., 33, 38., 68., 70., 74., 76., 79., 87., 91., 92., 95., 96., 98., 99, 100., 102., 105., 106., 107., 108., 109., 118., 119., 126, 127., 128., 130., 143., 149, 151., 152, 154., 156., 157, 159., 161, 162., 164, 166., 167, 168... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ... 173. and 182. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr President, are you able to say how many blocked amendments are here? Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u507	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 255 voted against - 161, with five abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Some Members chant: Answer! Answer me! Answer me!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Quiet, please. In the 7th minority proposal, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 23. The question is raised by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u508	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Question for the applicant. Mr applicant, aren't you ashamed in front of your colleagues that they have to go red for you? Seven pages of shame. And the OFE bill is not ideal, and it's not the virtue you should restore. [[Voice from the room: Come on, Andrew, really.]] We We don't want that in Kukiz.15. [[But virtue is good.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is a shame, because first you say, Mr applicant first says that OFE... that Kukiz is crazy and wants JOWs everywhere, and then he says he's okay and loves JOWs. Do you know - do you really know - what kind of electoral code you want? What does the author mean? Because these amendments are amendments of shame - state, not opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u509	I must point out to you that you did not refer to the content of the 7th minority proposal. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] [[Voice from the gym: How do you know, Marshal? How do you know?]] [[How do you know?]] Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Voices from the hall: Hu, hu...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u510	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As part of the democratic package, you enter the records that the council clubs in the voivodship sejmies must make statements whether they support the boards or do not support them. According to the interpretation of the representatives of the Sejm Analysis Office, it may appear that someone will have a person on the voivodship board and at the same time make a statement that they do not support this board, and thus will have a chairman of the audit committee. But it may also be that the chairman of the review committee will not be elected. What then? Then the applicant's representative says: it will be dealt with by the supervisory authority. So? You'll be gone. Is that what you want? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u511	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Do you understand that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u512	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to address the applicants with a general question. Are you prepared for the scenario entitled: The election? You can't prepare, you can't carry out...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u513	Member, please refer to the 7th minority proposal. [[It does.]] [[He's talking about threats.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u514	Or is that what this is about? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u515	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are currently saying no to the subject, namely, under Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2. [[You're the one who doesn't know.]] Remember, this will be recorded. We are now voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 194 voted against - 228, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 8th minority proposal to Article. 24 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 2. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this proposal, we propose that you withdraw from an inept attempt to copy the article. 19 from the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Right here, I think you know what we're going to vote on. You want to allow councillors without any control, without any knowledge to all rooms, to all materials, with access to information, to companies, to all the administrative authorities of the municipality, forgetting that at this stage all these control tools are - in the form of whether it is a review committee or access to public information. Remember that every public spending by legal entities in local governments is controlled by councillors. So that this amendment is supposed to normalize this whole project, although it can't be done anyway, because, as you all know, it's just a legal bullshit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u517	Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment, this minority proposal, gives the opportunity for the president of the opposition club to be the head of the review committee. I have a question for Mr. Schreiber. You know, we're MPs in the Seym for the first time... [[Last one!]] ...and we could create some new quality. Me, for example. It doesn't matter how the laws were voted in the seventh term, really. [[You're the vice-president of the committee.]] You were supposed to introduce a democratic package, you were supposed to have a dialogue. [[You're not giving us.]] We were supposed to be one big community. And what have you shown these last two years? Caricature of dialogue, caricature. Under the leadership of Mr Kaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u519	Madam President, I would like to point out that you are out of line with the 8th minority proposal. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: No. I'm back!]] [[Applause]] [[But what's beyond?]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Voice from the hall: All must be punished.]] [[Mr. Marshal, don't censor me.]] Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Mr Schreiber. Mr President, I will not join in the personal attacks on you. I know you're a calm, cultural man, and I respect you very much. I agree with what you said. Proceding over the OFE or pension laws was below all criticisms. My question is simple: Why is there no good change? Why are you doing the same thing? That's all I want to know. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u521	Mr President, the question does not concern the 8th minority proposal, I am very sorry. [[Mr. Marshal, but the applicant was talking about it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, most of your speeches only strengthen my conviction, and I repeat that it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... [[Censor's gone, Marshal.]] [[Then you'll have to punish everyone so preventively.]] ...and prevent such bad minority proposals from being made. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the hall: The silent Seym.]] Mr Horała, Member of the Law and Justice Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In relation to Mr Szymański's question, I have a question as to whether the applicants know how Members of the Platform are concerned about the individual control powers of the councillors. [[Bravo!]] If he now has control powers only as an organ or a review committee, then the mayor, the president, who has a political majority in both of these bodies, is practically out of control by the councillors. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[There's all the tools.]] Therefore, individual councillors must be given control powers. [[The review committee, the mandate allows public spending.]] One more word. If you are talking about the army of ministers of the Błaszczaks, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to point out candidates for commissioners, I am making it clear to you that now, perhaps you do not know this, you have an army of ministers of the Ziobras in Poland, because now it is the Minister of Justice who gives the State Election Commission the nomination of Commissioners. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You want to control everything and everyone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u523	Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Marshal, don't be surprised that we are in the debate today, because firstly, there is no public discussion, secondly, during the work of the Extraordinary Commission, you have limited us to 60 seconds of questioning. That's the truth. [[On the first day?]] On the first day - no, the next day - yes. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! You have put the election commissioner's institution into legal circulation. [[He's here.]] A commissioner you've given authority to who doesn't fit the local government system at all. It was to constitute acts of local law belonging to the bodies constituting it. Under our pressure, you pulled out. There's supposed to be almost 400 of them, 100 left. That's the kind of legislative process you're running, that's what you should be ashamed of. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u525	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 194 against - 234, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Conclusion 9 is unobtrusive. Conclusion 10 is pointless. In the 11th minority application, applicants propose not to add Article. 19a. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the bill we're investigating, you're proposing a new IT system, a new camera system, and a network of all the polls. You say that everything will work at the level of thousands of municipalities throughout Poland. Let each Member now look forward to his voting instrument, because according to the Marshal's declaration - I am addressing you - on 12 September in this Chamber everyone was to have a new voting system. Today is December 14th, even in one room you could not build a voting system, and you want to build a system throughout Poland, in thousands of municipalities. [[Applause]] This is a sad assessment of what's going on here. And your marshal, please explain why the system, which cost PLN 5 million, has not worked so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u527	Mr President, you are not speaking on the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u528	And I ask the applicants how much the system will cost all over Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u529	I'm so sorry, sir. I draw your attention to the point. In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 175, I also call you to order... [[Answer me!]] ...to make your point next time. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, you're already being granted December, be careful.]] [[Voice from the room: Thirteenth!]] Mr Nitras, in accordance with Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I call you to order. Don't make it harder for me to vote. [[Then who was it for?]] [[Get rid of Nitras!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 192 voted against - 237, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 12th minority proposal to Article. 21 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 2a. The question is asked by Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u530	High Izbo! We want to delete a rather curiosity record, which was proposed by the applicant, that the councilman should have unlimited control powers within the framework of the companies and units subordinate to the county, under the old town of the county. Members of the applicant inefficiently, because the entire bill is inept, copied the solutions from the bill on the MP's and the senator's mandate to the district council law. You have only forgotten that Members now have less authority than you want to give the councillor. For example, Minister Macierewicz, who is sitting here, cannot respond to the simplest interpellation, e.g. About his relationship with Senator D. Amato. [[What does that have to do with anything?]] The PiS ministers aren't responding to any interpellations, and you want the councilman to be able to enter his uncle, the old-fashioned, stay in his room as long as he wants, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And control everything... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Think about what you're doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u531	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. There was no question to the Member of the applicant. [[No?]] Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 12th minority request would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 190, against 233, with four abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. 13. The proposal is without object. In the same minority proposals, 14 and 15 to Article. The 23 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 3b. The Sejm will vote on these proposals together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 14 and 15 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 182 voted against - 232, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 16th minority proposal to Article. 30 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 4. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Piotr Zgorzelski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u532	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask your marshal to discipline the applicants to answer questions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We ask questions, and you don't answer them. So now I'm asking you a question. In previous solutions and regulations, electoral committees could issue a double number of candidates. You've narrowed it down to the number of candidates plus two. What happens if, for random reasons, I don't know, it turns out that three councilmen just stop being councilmen? What is the mode of calling more councillors? This is a very important question. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Answer.]] [[Blaszczak's gonna point out a new councilman.]] [[One of the Members approaches the presidential table]] [[And what is that? What is it?]] [[He didn't write it down.]] [[Voice from the room: Everything from the beginning.]] [[How about a break?]] [[What kind of mode is this now?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u533	Good. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Marshal, what was this Member doing with you?]] The question is asked by Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u534	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to ask you how you consult these amendments. I mean, you don't know what's going on here, you don't know... [[The Marshal disables the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u535	Mr Tomczyk, I call you to order under Article. 175. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u536	High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant, how he will address the words of the Head of the State Election Commission, which he said - precisely in connection with this request of minorities, with these provisions - that elections can be disturbed and destabilised. You guys talked a lot about authority today. That's the authority. Legal authority, authority, in which Mr Kaczyński also voted in favour of choosing him for the Constitutional Tribunal, authority, which in 2009 was awarded the Bachelor's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland by the deceased. Lech Kaczyński. You refer to these authorities, but they mean nothing to you. Nothing that follows them is important to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u537	Thank you, sir, but this...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u538	I'm asking you to come to your senses while you're ahead. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u539	I'm recalling you for the second time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the wording of the 16th minority proposal... [[Voice from the Chamber: On what basis did Mr Schreiber enter you? Answer that.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: What right did Mr Schreiber come to you?]] ...in art. 3 in point 8 (1). 4 by the following wording: "4'. The chairman of the audit committee is the councilman of the largest councillor club in opposition. [[And that's what it was about.]] So I'd ask you to ask questions about the right minority proposals. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But, sir, you are only aware that these questions were not on the subject? [[About.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: They were on the subject.]] Mr... We'll proceed with the vote. [[Logic bows.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th minority proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 230, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 10th amendment to the article. 7th Law on the System of M.S. Warsaw applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. Two and three. Amendments 40, 94, 97, 101, 103, 111, 112, 113, 115 are combined with this amendment. [[Voice from the room: A 114?]] ... 120, 122, 125, 129, 132, 133, 136, 138, 140, 142, 145, 146 and 155. [[What's the matter?]] [[Explain what's going on.]] We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendment 110 and related amendments, amendments 147 and minority proposals 77, 76, 79, 80, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 98, 99, 100, 101, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113 and 117. [[Applause]] The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u540	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Question for Members of the applicants. Please answer how amendments 10, 40, 94, 97, 101, 103, 111, 112 are combined. [[But it's already been done.]] ... 113... 115... 120... 122... 125... 129... 132... [[Voice from the room: It's already been done, don't embarrass yourself.]] [[You're being rude, sir.]] ... 133., 136., 138., 140., 142., 145., 146. and 155. [[Bravo.]] [[But it's already been done.]] And I have the impression that Mr. Marshal forgot about the 120th and 132nd amendments. [[Applause]] We don't know what to vote on because you skipped two amendments. [[Voice from the room: You have to read it again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u541	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about these amendments and it is a question from Internet users who have prepared a list of signs to vote... [[That's not the amendment.]] ...which is in accordance with this bill. There's a cross for environmentalists, for priests, for traditionalists, for players... [[You threw it all in.]] ...for computer scientists, for stars, and for pilots. Do you really want our choices to be like this? [[Applause]] [[Not now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u543	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that Amendment 10 refers to Article. Paragraph 7 Two and three. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr Schreiber would like to respond. There you go. Mr Łukasz Schreiber shall speak on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have to say, I'm amazed. Of course, the Member has just been unable to see what we are talking about and what we are about to vote on. High Izbo! This package of amendments concerns one-mandate electoral districts, which in municipalities up to 20,000. They are to remain, and it is difficult to vote on this separately. I'm surprised because you've been fighting the idea of moving away from one-mandate electoral districts in small towns all the time, and now you're fighting this amendment. And I would like to take the opportunity to say just one word, because there have been accusations that the head of the State Election Commission was in any way insulted that no one would listen to him. High Izbo! 14 of the 18 comments made by the State Election Commission have been welcomed and accepted by the Extraordinary Commission in the amendments, those which you are fighting and for which you are not voting. [[Applause]] [[And four of them ruined everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u545	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 272 voted against - 132, 25 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. 17. The proposal is without object. [[But why is it unobtrusive?]] In the 18th minority proposal, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 4. [[Mr. Marshal, he's not unobtrusive.]] Formal conclusion... Oh, it's over. [[A voice from the hall: It is not without object!]] We are now voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] 431 Members voted. 195 votes against - 233, 3 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Waldy Dzikowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u546	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you to change the way you drive, but also to take a break to give applicants time for specific answers, which we will all understand, and they themselves will understand what this is all about. Well, we, Mr. Marshal, when we vote on some of the amendments that are linked to each other, are really talking about the electoral code almost entirely. I'd ask you to understand that. The consequence of a single record brings about consequences practically throughout the electoral code. I'm begging you, just... I understand that with this conduct you are not able to fully control it, but please do not take away our vote, because this concerns the key thing, namely the electoral constitution of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] This is what we're talking about today. We're talking about the quality of the election, what political class we're going to have after this electoral code. Don't you understand that, ladies and gentlemen? We're talking about this here. And there's one more thing I wanted to say. Well, if the applicants in the committee say that one-mandate electoral districts aren't crucial and aren't spines, remember... If you put one-mandate in those up to 20,000. and you say... to the questioner who is currently speaking, you answer that this is not a key solution, therefore it may be, do not ridicule this document, which is one of the most important in the Republic of Poland. They're bringing in one-mandate electoral districts because they're not crucial. Ladies and gentlemen, do you understand the paradox here? Next: Can the treasurer be appointed by the governor or by counsel? They say it's not crucial, but it can be. This is a serious investigation of one of the most important documents? This is a disgrace of shame and fear, I repeat. [[Applause]] And 60 hours of proceding... 60 hours to get to the same place and do the electoral code, which is actually a caricature of a good document? [[Of course I do.]] I understand that science is not harmful, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But why did you need 60 hours to do that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u547	Thank you, sir. Only Mr... (PL) Mr President, Mr President, [[Give it a rest, Marshal.]] Mr... Mr President, please come to me. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Again, slower.]] Tell me exactly what the formal conclusion was. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Changing the way you drive what? [[Conducting proceedings.]] [[Time out!]] [[Voice from the room: O break!]] Robbery, okay. [[It's about the break.]] [[Voice from the gym: Mr. President, something for the Marshal's association.]] Yes, there is no such formal proposal - a change in the way the proceedings are conducted. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: O break!]] Mr Witczak - formal application. But if in the same case, then... [[No, it's completely different.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u548	Thank you, Marshal, for the vote. I'm going to ask your marshal for a recess and a review of what Mr. Marshal just said about our minority request, of motion 17. The case is crucial, Mr. Marshal. I do not really understand why you claim that this proposal is without object, because this proposal, our request of a minority, the firstborn, concerns the deletion of the article. 4 - Listen, Mr. Marshal, because it's quite a mess - it's about removing the article. 4 of the first-born, before this series of hundreds of amendments of your project. This article is nothing more than almost the entire electoral ordination that you are applying... more specifically, the poison that you are applying to Polish democracy. We wanted to talk about it, Mr. Marshal. The legislators changed it, as we understand it, into an article. 5 after the whole mess and the inconsistencies, and the inconsistencies of this law. They put it together and described it in terms of art. 5. What right do you say this is an unobtrusive discussion, how is the whole electoral ordination? This is stubbornness, Mr. Marshal, the electoral process in Poland, and this is ultimately a party solution for the State Election Commission, and this is also a question concerning Minister Błaszczak. Minister Błaszczak is de facto the head of the National Election Office - probably transferring them to Nowogrodzka - and becoming a very powerful man. Mr. Marshal, you can't do this to Błaszczak because you're making Kiszczak out of Błaszczak. You can't do that, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u549	I would like to inform you that, of course, I will pass the request for a break, but I will not put any more of these proposals to the vote. [[But did you understand what was said?]] And I didn't put the minority's motion to the vote because it became unobtrusive... [[But why?]] [[But why? Explain it to me.]] ...in the context of the adoption of the 4th amendment and subsequent amendments. 4. The amendment and derivatives, their adoption, have made the minority proposal irrelevant. So that very many of you... We'll proceed to the... A request for a break has been filed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the request for a break, please raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Break is not about the subject.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 193 voted against - 240, 1 Member abstained. The motion was rejected. In the 19th minority proposal to Article. 5 applicants propose not to add point 12. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fundamental request of minorities is de facto affecting the entire electoral process. This proposal has given rise to a very long discussion during the committee's meeting, which concerns, my fellow Members, the 24th letter of the Latin alphabet. High Izbo! Is that the letter X? [[Member Tomasz Szymanski shows cards with signs]] [[No.]] Is that the letter X? [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[Show the marshal.]] Or is that the letter X? [[Voices from the room: No.]] And this is the letter X? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] According to the applicants, the letter X is minimally two intersecting lines. Ladies and gentlemen! Early school education awaits you. [[Bravo.]] That's where you should go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u551	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u552	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Members of the applicant. It's falling apart in this discussion like a house of cards, your argument for the changes you're pushing. It's falling apart, you can see it with your naked eye. I wanted, honourable Members of the applicant, to ask you to make three arguments... [[Voice from the room: Question!]] [[Question.]] ...speaking for these changes. Just please don't tell stories about forgeries, please don't tell stories about the pro-Citizen and pro-democratic character of this amendment. We will ask here, in this House, for three concrete arguments for these changes, because we have not heard them here today nor have we heard them before. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u553	Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u554	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We're telling you what the X-sign might look like. [[It's already been done.]] The creativity of Poles is unlimited. [[Mr Marek Owl shows a card with signs]] X-sign for environmentalists - Christmas tree, X-sign for priests - cross, X-sign for traditionalists... [[Voices from the O.R.: It's already been done.]] [[Voice from the room: It was.]] ...for players - chessboard, for computer scientists - hashtag... [[Voice from the room: Don't repeat yourself.]] ...for the stars and for the pilots. Ladies and gentlemen! You've led to this, that the validity of such a voice will be decided by who? [[Commissioner.]] Minister Błaszczak's representative. That's the truth. Think about it and reject this imaginary idea so that you can do whatever's in those bars and then your commissioners will decide whether it's important or invalid. Because this is the way to one - this is the way to vote forgery! [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Hu, hu...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u555	Marcin Horała, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question to the applicants is, could they confirm my thesis? The opposition state here is multiplying some absurdity. I don't know, maybe there are some people among your friends who want to vote with a Christmas tree or a Christmas tree. I don't know these guys. But in the current regulation, when the X-sign is just two intersecting lines... [[Well, that's right.]] ...and every note in the grate causes nullity, it opens up a huge field for dishonest people who would like to fake elections, because very slight movement of the pen - a dot, a small bar, it can be done without control somewhere on the side, having a card for a while - immediately causes the vote to be nullified. And maybe that's where so many unimportant voices came from in the last election. So we close the gate so we can massly, through one dot, cancel the votes correctly placed, for example, on this list... [[Voice from the room: You're a dot.]] ...who doesn't like this dishonest person. And it's this country you want to leave this gate so it can be massively voided. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[I really feel sorry for you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u557	The representative of the applicants, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The matter is indeed serious and requires a serious response. First thing. You can say with sadness: Total opposition, but you're afraid. But what are you afraid of? [[We're afraid of forgeries.]] Are you scared of people? Are you scared of older people? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But... Oh, oh, oh. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You ask questions, and then you yell so you don't hear the answer. But you're not gonna scream the truth. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Voice from the room: But you don't answer.]] High Izbo! What are we doing with this change that you're so fiercely and bitterly criticizing? That two intersecting lines are an important voice. Against whom is this a way out? In front of the elderly... [[Yes, sir.]] ...against the disabled, against the sick. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] High Izbo! I understand it doesn't matter to you that 5% in 2010, and already 8% in 2014 of all the votes that were invalid were votes... So-called. a party of two crosses, i.e. people who wanted to cast an important vote, and indeed, as Mr Horała said, a small note could have resulted in the recognition of the nullity of the vote. Read the OSCE report, which says that this type of legislation needs to be liberalised, and get acquainted with it. What are you afraid of? More votes important? That there won't be 20% Voices that don't matter? [[Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ……]] That after exit polls one of the parties won't jump by 8% ? [[Your eye blinks.]] Seriously, don't be afraid of people, don't be afraid of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u559	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 192 voted against - 238 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 12th amendment to the article. 5 applicants propose to add point 13. Amendments 35, 36, 39, 43, 44, 45, 48, 49, 50, 56, 62, 70, 82, 83, 85 and 93 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 51 and its related amendments and minority proposals 35, 40, 45, 71 and 72. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club. [[No, I'm backing out.]] Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This time I will not read the number of amendments, but I will reply to the Member: in the previous block there were 53 amendments, there are 17 amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u561	Mr President, ask a question, because there is a question mode, not an answer. [[Shame on you, Marshal, really.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u562	Which is what I'm doing right now. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were 17 Members in the committee that was investigating this project. PiS had the majority, he could have voted out what he wanted. The platform had five MPs to scream, the rest of the clubs had one e-mail to preserve the appearance of democracy. Since most of the room has no idea what these amendments are about, please, I would be grateful if any of the applicant's representatives could tell us what this block is all about. 17 amendments this time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u563	Thank you. The question is asked by Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u564	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have entrusted as a parliamentary club a change of state regime to three Members who have decided that a year or two-year episode in the local government... [[12 years old, sir, 12 years old.]] ...is enough reason to change the state. And the way we've tried, as each of us had 60 seconds to speak on these important topics, is today a derivative of what's going on. I am still asking and addressing the Members of the applicants. I asked three questions. First question: Why do judges remain in the records as electoral commissioners in the elections to the European Parliament? Why such a distinction? That's the first question. Two. What if there is indeed an accident and three councillors stop fulfilling their mandates? It's the county council or the sejmikas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] they must be fully operational.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u565	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u566	One last question. What did the disabled do to you to punish them like that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u567	Thank you very much, sir. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u568	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Schreiber! It's important what we put on the ballot. [[Voice from the room: This is the wrong point.]] This is very important. Please stop talking about this -- this is the point -- that the election was faked. 70% No valid voices were blank cards. There were no dots and bars on those empty cards. You're gonna have to understand that. [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: This is not the point.]] 70% Voices, cards that don't matter can't be forged, they're clean. You've got to understand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u569	Mr Waldy Dzikowski, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. Let me remind you, the questions should concern the 12 amendments and derivatives. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: About crosses.]] [[Voice from the room: You know what this is about.]] [[Voice from the room: You're fighting for your life.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u570	I promise I will. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment 12 introduces, inter alia, the political position of the two committees. Namely the committee, listen well to the state, to make choices and to determine the results of the elections. Two committees. What traditions and history of the Republic of Poland and perhaps some examples We are close to you in Europe, and you will give the applicant a reason why these two committees should be set up. I would like to remind you that there have been turmoil, to all Members, as the IT system failed. We had a big grudge about it, among other things. On this basis, there have been brilliant ideas made by Members of the applicants regarding the amendment of the electoral code. I wanted to ask, did you count, for example. electoral calendar, what have we asked many times? Do you know there will be two days to register the letter? [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: You have a calendar.]] Do you know that this calendar really threatens the normal [[♪ The bell ♪]] Choices and I will be ashamed as a Pole. You'll see that it will.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u571	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u572	It's gonna be one big disaster and a wall of crying and shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u573	Mr Łukasz Schreiber asks for the floor on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u574	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is with pleasure to note that at least Mr Waldy Dzikowski knows what the amendment we will be voting on is about. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[A voice from the hall: If he hadn't told you, you wouldn't know.]] High Izbo! What's it about? Explanations, as recommended by the Legislative Office, which you have already referred to, the legislative situation and the issue of the Committee on Legal Affairs. the holding of a vote and a committee on the the determination of the outcome of the voting in the circuit. High Izbo! There are allegations, and there is a question from the Member that there is no such situation that there is no tradition that there are no such ideas anywhere in Europe or in the world. I would like to point out that this is obviously a reference to the Anglo-Saxon model from the UK. There is another step ahead of us, because there the count of votes takes place in much larger areas. But there are also examples of other countries in Europe. In France, scruples, members of the scrotum committee, under the control of the members of the electoral commission, are involved in the conversion of votes. They may also be appointed by candidates. [[For free?]] Only in the absence of a sufficient number of votes can members of the electoral commission participate in this exercise. In Iceland, the conversion takes place at the voting centers and the votes are counted by the volunteers under the control of the committee. In Belgium, the votes are counted by members of specially appointed electoral committees. They are not members of the regional electoral committees. [[The results are being determined.]] I believe that these examples from the countries of Europe, as well as our common concern for the electoral process to be clear, transparent, will allow you to support these good amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What about my questions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u575	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 264 voted against - 158, 4 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the 20th minority proposal to Article. 8 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording § 1. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendments 13, 41 and 46. The question is asked by Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u576	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This proposal is wrong and threatens to seriously destabilise the electoral process - said Wojciech Hermeliński, President of the State Election Commission. If these rules enter into force, the conduct of these elections will be a miracle - said the employees of the National Election Office. Is this the kind of election you want to give the Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u577	Thank you. Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u578	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Another problem concerning this project is, among others. That the election records will only be kept for two years. We believe that we should extend this period to the years 5, since you are so afraid of fraudulent elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u579	Thank you. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: He doesn't know what it is.]] [[Mr Brejza, I am resigning for now.]] Mr Krzysztof...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u580	I have a question for Mr Schreiber...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u581	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Mr. Waldy Dzikowski quits, right? [[To the point...]] Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u582	I have a question for Mr Schreiber. You referred to solutions in the UK. Is it true that there is a correspondence voting institution in the UK? Isn't it worth keeping up? Is it true that in London councillors are elected in one-mandate electoral districts? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u583	Thank you. [[Voices from the room: Answer.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Calm down, please. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 77 voted against - 243, with 97 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 13th amendment to the article. 8 applicants propose to make a new wording § 1. This amendment is accompanied by amendments 41st and 46th. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u584	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here's the method. We're taking 100%. We'll give you 20% later, everybody enjoy it. That's the case in this case. First you deleted the JOWs everywhere, also in municipalities under 20,000, then restored them, but in these municipalities over 20,000. You've blocked them. This is your method. Mr. Marshal! I want to vote on this amendment. This vote is linked to the use of a voting device. I'm asking you where the new 5 million million voting machines are... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: It has already been done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u585	Mr President, this is no longer a subject for this amendment. Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u586	Dear Marshal, I've tabled a few amendments before, but I'm told you didn't notice me. I would like to refer to Mr Horala's words. With all due respect, sir, you wanted to shine, saying that, in the current legal state, the head of the National Election Office, excuse me, the head of the PKW is calling the head of the National Election Office at the request of the Minister of Justice. [[No.]] It's nothing like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u587	Mr Thirteen, Mr Thirteen. The amendment concerns something else. Ask questions about 13. Corrections.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u588	Art. 190 § That's not what 2 says. [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u589	I remind you, 13. the amendment concerns the period of storage of election documents. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u590	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Question to the applicant: Is it true that in the course of our work you have mentioned that your initiative, the guiding idea of your project, is that there should not be what was in 2014 so that there should not be any of these null and void voices? The question is what will happen, Commissioner, if the number of null and void votes increases in the next local elections, the counting time will be extended and there will be problems with the announcement of the results. Who's gonna be guilty? [[Schreiber.]] Today I see three people in the first benches. Here, Mr. Chairman, they'll be the first to be guilty. There you go. [[Our stars. Member A.K. She's gonna be guilty of paralysis. We'll remember.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u591	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u592	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I address the Members...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u593	Excuse me, sir. I urge Rutnicki for the first time - you are at the moment violating the seriousness of the Sejm and preventing me from taking part in the proceedings - in accordance with Article. 175. Remember that. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u594	Honourable Members of the Applicant! I'm addressing you because the questions are down, gentlemen, they don't answer. The question is: Why did you eliminate the possibility of voting in correspondence? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Wrong topic!]] Why did you take the opportunity...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u595	Excuse me, sir. Talk about Amendment 13.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u596	...votes of tens of thousands of people with disabilities? For many of them it was the only way to take part in the election.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u597	Mr President, let me get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u598	What did these people do to you? Where are your hearts? Why... [[The Marshal disables the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u599	Mr President, I am admonishing you in accordance with Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 - that in this way I must treat your speech as preventing me from taking part in the proceedings. Next time... [[Punish us, too, because we clapped.]] ...the next warning is a financial penalty. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. In 193 votes against - 229, five Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 14th amendment to the article. 11 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording § Point 1 (5). Amendment 104 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 15. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u600	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Do you know the distance between the municipality of Okonek and the municipality of Rychtal in Wielkopolska Voivodeship? 350 kilometers. The State originally wanted the town of Rychtal to be able to stand as a candidate in the municipality of Okonek. Luckily, praise God, you're pulling out of this idiotism. But you're not retreating on the issues of the county. It is still a resident of the district of Kępiński, where the municipality of Rychtal is, that will be able to vote and can be chosen in the district of Złotowskie, where the municipality of Okonek is. Yeah, it's absurd. Why are you doing this? As a Wielkopolska native and a resident of Opole, I will say that shrapnel does not mean: doing mess in local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u601	Mr. Speaker! I'm warning you because...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u602	And none of it... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u603	Mr. Speaker! I urge you to do so because you are violating the seriousness of the Sejm. And that's a first-time warning. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're violating the Sejm's seriousness. That's the kind of driving that violates your seriousness.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 14 and 104 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 296, against 122, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. The 15th amendment is without object. In the same minority proposals 21, 22 and 23, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 11. We will vote on these proposals together. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u604	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're bringing in the mayors and the mayors and the presidents of the cadence. I have a few questions. Why do you want to take away the local community's ability to choose your host? Why are you restricting passive electoral rights for active, proven local government officials by prohibiting them from applying for this office after two terms of office? Do we have so many reliable, honest leaders in local societies? Let me remind you that in the 2014 elections 38% Mayors, mayors and presidents lost their positions as a result of democratic elections. You shouldn't have forced anyone to do that. The local communities felt that this host was no longer suitable and that it needed to be placed on another. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you take those rights? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u605	Thank you, sir. Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u606	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First you've taken everything away from the citizens, now you're restoring it, but you're restoring it dishonestly. 2430 municipalities were former municipalities with one-mandate electoral districts. At the moment you kindly reject this to citizens in municipalities of up to 20,000, so 2100 municipalities will have one-mandate electoral districts. So you're really taking away almost 300 localities from the opportunity to stand as a citizen. And the minority's request applies, of course, Five-year period for the holding of electoral documents. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u607	Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Resigns.]] Member Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u608	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask whether we really want such a debate, that one Member jokes with the name of Mr Schreiber, that Members from this side of the room are roaring as Mr Owl comes out. Really, ladies and gentlemen, we're not at school. Let's argue hard, let's argue hard, but we're not at school. Name jokes? This is middle school right here in this room? [[Voice from the hall: No middle school!]] Really, watch. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Parliaments of other countries. I'm asking you to, and I'm appealing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u609	Thank you very much, sir. I understand your voice in such a way that the response to irregular speeches should be stepped up. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the formal proposals 21st, 22nd and 23rd, would like to raise your hand... [[Formal?]] ...the minority requests, I'm sorry, he's gonna raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 192 voted against - 228, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. Member Krzysztof Truskolaski is filing a formal application. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u610	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, you urge Members to violate the seriousness of the Sejm, but Mr. Marshal, in the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u611	In what mode, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u612	...there's no such... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u613	Member, please refer to the article, paragraph and point on the formal proposal. [[He doesn't know the rules!]] Please refer to... [[Member of Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Legal basis.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u614	Marshal, under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm - Article. 182 point 4 I'd like to ask you to... [[Voice from the room: There is no such...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u615	Well, there's no such thing, sir, I'm very sorry... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u616	There is no point 4. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Sit down! Fag!]] [[To school! To middle school!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u617	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are in violation of the seriousness of the Sejm and I must re-enlist you on the list of Members who prevent the proceedings of the Sejm from taking place. This is the first time I've warned you. Conclusion 24 is pointless. Conclusion 25: including minority proposal to Article. 12 § 2 applicants propose to add a sentence. Its adoption will result in the futility of the proposal 26. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u618	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You tried to take control of the treasurer. How? So that the treasurer, among others. on the council of the municipality it was not entirely subject to the gentry. Why? So that he couldn't control actually fully, objectively the finances of the municipality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u619	Mr President, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the 25th amendment... [[What was the amendment about?]] ...the addition of the second sentence to the following text: The changes in the permanent voting circuits may take place 8 years before the planned elections. [[That's what he was talking about.]] I'm warning you, next time, I'm gonna have to apply the rules of procedure. [[Applause]] Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u620	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The state in the District Election Commissions is changing the circuits at all, allowing you to increase the circuits to 4,000. residents. This amendment, of course, alleviates to some extent, I would say, these records, because we would have had a revolution in the forthcoming elections: people would have gone out of the habit of voting circuit and would not have found this circuit, because the circuit would have been, for example. connected to another. But I also have one more question in the context of the regional committees. You have entered a record that there will be a mandatory transmission from the voting process. Good. You've charged the National Election Bureau to do this, to buy the equipment. Do you have secure resources for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u621	Mr, this is where you're going...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u622	The election board...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u623	But this does not apply to Amendment 25, the minority proposal 25.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u624	It doesn't apply to circuit boards at all... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u625	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 71 voted against - 232, 119 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. 26. the application is without object. 16. amendment and derivatives are non-essential. [[Mr. Marshal, I was left out in the 25th Amendment.]] 21st Amendment to Article 12: applicants propose to add § 14. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u626	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum to the draft, the applicant stated that they were undertaking this dubious quality work because of the fact that electoral counterfeiting took place in 2014. I wanted to know what kind of election fraud this is all about. What kind of forgeries did the applicants have in mind? Is this about the 2014 local elections you won? Is this about the elections for which Andrzej Duda, then MEP, went to Brussels and complained about Poland? Is this the kind of election that's going on? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u627	Mr Michał Stasiński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u628	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) is hereby set up in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on the Functioning Why? Mr Schreiber, there is such an archival broadcast on the radio 60 minutes per hour. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] There Tadeusz Ross asked Piotr Fronczewski, Twice. Four. To exactly. And that's exactly what you do with the ballots. In addition to important and invalid cards, you create a category of cards that are almost important, barely valid or nearly expired. [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: But this is not the point.]] What's that for? That's why, like the committee, your people on the committee, when you start counting votes, when it turns out that PiS didn't get enough important votes, you're gonna pick up votes from barely valid or almost important votes. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Therefore, you will manipulate the outcome of the election. And that's actually the point of your proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u629	Mr Horała, Member of the Law and Justice Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u630	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true, because it is not clear from the previous questions that this amendment concerns the addition of a paragraph in which we open the appeal to the courts against the decision of the State Election Commission on the determination of the circuits, which constitutes the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and the demands of the Ombudsman? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u631	Mr Horała has caused me not to remind Mr Stasiński that he has not spoken on the subject. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 21 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 278, against - 2, with 152 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment, the applicants propose not to repeal the Article. 12a. Amendments 47 and 57 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the nullity of minority proposals Nos 29 and 30. The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club. [[To the next conclusion. It's not now.]] I see. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u632	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns correspondence voting. I haven't heard a specific answer from you so far... [[Voice from the room: Very specific]] ...why people with disabilities will not be allowed to participate in elections. Why are you doing this to 5 million people? I don't get it at all. I understand that none of you, from Members of the Law and Justice, is a person with disabilities, I do not wish that for any of you, but you certainly know such persons, so I am surprised that you will not be able to take part in the election. Answer these people why you condemn them to why they are discriminated against in this way. Explain to them why you are leading them to be pushed to the margins of civil society. Explain it to them. 5 million people - 5 million. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u633	However, Mr Szymański raises a question to this amendment. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u634	Yes, of course, because as you can see, it's become a total distraction. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2006 Law and Justice announced the need to ensure electoral rights for all Poles abroad. What do you want to do with this amendment? You want to deprive not only Poles who are abroad of voting, but you want to deprive them primarily of the elderly, the disabled and those who had to go abroad for bread. This amendment concerns 2 million people - 2 million people. [[Five or two?]] In 2015, 40 thousand. citizens have benefited from this form of vote. Ladies and gentlemen! The OSCE says that this form of voting is much better and more effective than the proxy vote. There is no possibility of repealing the constitutional principle of universality of elections. You're breaking the constitution with this entry. This is a common election, and you're already condemning 40 grand. People... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u635	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u636	...no more, no more voting opportunities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u637	Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u638	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Amendment 22. Mr. Marshal, the amendment of the Polish People's Party concerns a correspondence vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the applicant, I repeat the question: Why do you deprive several dozens of thousands of people with disabilities of participation in the elections? Please answer me. For many of them it was the only way to take part in the election. What have these people done to you? Where are your hearts? Why do you deprive them of their civil rights? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u639	Mr Łukasz Schreiber asks for a vote on behalf of the applicants. There you go. [[It's okay. Tell him to apologize and sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u640	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject is indeed serious. I am pleased that for the first time Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus asked a question about the amendment. That's progress, you might say. Now let's get to the point. I didn't answer earlier because you asked the wrong place. [[What right do you have to judge?]] Case one, correspondence vote. During the last elections, not 4 million people, not 5 million people, but 10,000 people benefited from it. persons. That's note one. After what you're saying, you might wonder what the vote is for. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The proxy, the Braille pads, the ballot boxes you introduced for disabled people, and specially adapted premises, since everyone is to vote in correspondence. [[What if the president gets sick?]] Case number two. You know very well that in the case of this method buying votes is very difficult to capture. Case number three. In most European Union countries, correspondence voting during local elections does not apply. Okay, here's the deal. [[That's not true.]] I understand that I may not be an authority for you, but in that case I will quote to you the opinion of the Director of the Institute of Political Sciences of the University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, and at the same time the President of the Polish Society of Political Sciences, Professor Arkadiusz Żukowski. Listen to this: A correspondence vote can promote forgery and, among other things, forgery. That is why, in 1975, in France, he was abandoned, and in Belgium, too. A number of procedures may be violated with the correspondence vote, e.g. add votes by the central electoral commission and annul and remove votes at each level: from the postman to the central electoral commission. In the UK, correspondence ballots were purchased, and in Austria a year ago, High Izbo, there was a repeat of the presidential election in connection with the correspondence vote. [[Don't make fun of us.]] So the claim that applicants want to hit disabled people with these records is highly unfair on your part. [[Recommendation of the OSCE.]] That's the argument. We may differ, but these facts you cannot deny. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u641	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 189 voted against - 231, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the same minority proposals 29th and 30th. applicants shall propose not to repeal Article. 12a. The Sejm will vote on these proposals together. The question will be asked by Mr Waldy Dzikowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u642	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The correspondence vote was introduced in 2011 for people with disabilities, and at their request, not politicians invented it. Once again, I had the pleasure of running this Extraordinary Commission. Multi-hour meetings with people who came in wheelchairs, blind people, deaf people. That's what we did for them. And I'm gonna say yes. The universality of elections, all politicians, should strive to promote them, which is to increase the catalogue of voting opportunities. No one forces you to vote in correspondence. These are disabled people, random accidents, it's like the challenge of the 21st century civilization. Gentlemen, you're young. Once again, you should be working on an online vote, not undoing the correspondence vote. [[Applause]] This is a complete misunderstanding. People have been waiting for this for many, many years, but we're just teaching them and getting used to it. We're a young democracy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm telling you again...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u643	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u644	...that we were based on trust in Poles and voters, and you were based on the opposite. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u645	Thank you, sir. Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u646	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Even if it was to be given one vote by a person who could not participate, [[Applause]] It's worth it. You have to understand that because you don't fully respect these people and their voices unless in your research it turns out that the disabled just don't vote for you, and you don't care about those voices. Maybe it's true. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! The inhabitants of more than 300 municipalities are additionally deprived of the JOWs, i.e. more than one million people who cannot run for municipal elections on their own and cannot fight this local situation. [[Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: What does this have to do with this amendment? That's not the point.]] How do you want to fight it then? Bringing in your men? Your people? What is the quality of these people? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u647	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th and 30th. minority proposals, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 188 voted against - 228, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. 31. the application is without object. 32. The proposal is without object. In the 34th minority proposal, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 26a. The question is asked by Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u648	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A correspondence vote - we talk about it all the time. There was a very symbolic scene at the committee meeting when people with disabilities came. A blind person came with a dog who wanted to say that she was very interested in preserving this form of voting. You listened to her, but you didn't draw any conclusions. Parallel to this point came the PiS activist from Hunter... [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] ...member of the county board, who was perfectly healthy, just to be clear, and said he wasn't willing to vote in correspondence. And that's the truth about you, Mr. President. [[Voice from the room: Don't yell!]] [[Voice from the room: Take this finger!]] You don't want to listen to people with disabilities, you want to listen to your Misiewicz. That's the truth! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u649	I would like to draw Mr Kierwinski's attention to your speaking according to the nature and seriousness of the Sejm, not using names and insulting others. [[But what names?]] [[Punishment. Punishment.]] Mr Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u650	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The strength of the state shows how minorities and weaker people are treated. What are you showing me? After all, it does not matter how many people will be able to vote in correspondence. [[Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Were you listening?]] Even for one person, if that's possible, yes. Every Pole and every Polish woman has the right to vote. Everyone should have an opportunity, and you're making it difficult. [[Keep your voice down!]] Prime Minister Morawiecki said here two days ago that you will make a country that will be friendly to people with disabilities. What are you doing? What are you doing? You make it impossible for them to be full citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u651	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 75 votes against - 230, 113 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. 35. The proposal is without object. 36. the application is without object. In the same minority proposals, 37th, 38th and 39th applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 38. We will vote on these proposals together. The question is asked by Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u652	Mr. Marshal! This amendment also concerns the prohibition of correspondence voting. Indeed, in Belgium correspondence voting was limited to a large extent. Do you know why? Because a year ago an electronic vote was introduced in 150 places in Belgium, already mandatory in Brussels. Hence the restriction of correspondence voting. You break some of the most important international standards, you break art. 39 UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, signed by Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] You are also breaking European standards, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which was negotiated for the government of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. Why are you doing this to Prime Minister Kaczyński? [[Don't lie to me.]] And whenever Prime Minister Morawiecki wants to make peace with his former boss Donald Tusk at the moment, he smiles, speaks English, it won't help you, because you're breaking all the standards of the civilized world, banning [[♪ The bell ♪]] People with disabilities vote...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u653	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u654	...or making it difficult for people with disabilities to vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u655	Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u656	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. The 38, which we want to leave as it stands, is precisely talking about the correspondence vote. The state, by excluding this form, really deprives you of the right to vote about 130 thousand inhabitants of the city. residents. You're losing... [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Why not 5 million?]] That's exactly how many eligible people there are. You are denying the right to vote for many Poles abroad. Mr Schreiber, on yesterday's environment of people with disabilities, made a promise that he would take this form of voting seriously, leaving the correspondence vote to think that you would consider this and perhaps today or in the Senate to support it. Where is your reflection? [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Are we in the Senate or in the Seym?]] Where is your reflection? The only example you're talking about is the example of Walbrzych. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Find out what the problems were...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u657	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u658	...and who had these problems with the settlement... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u659	Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u660	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. Why are you so insensitive to the needs of people with disabilities? The way you treat people with disabilities tells you what kind of people you are. There is a correspondence vote in the United States. For us, this is also part of our relationship with Poles who are abroad. After all, they can also be allowed to vote in this way. The argument you're making is completely off-limits, because you're saying 5,000. The cards go back to the communes. How many municipalities do we have, ladies and gentlemen? 2.5 thousands. Times two is only 5,000. So two cards can affect the election outcome? This is bullshit. I'm asking you to reflect. Allow the disabled, the sick, those who are abroad... You'll be able to vote in correspondence. [[Applause]] [[Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u661	Thank you. I only have a warm request for all your Members. If you're asking a question, tell me who it's addressed to. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: But it was.]] [[Voice from the room: Come on.]] It is only from a formal point of view that this should be addressed to the rapporteur or to the representative of the applicants. I understand that the question was addressed to the applicant's representative. [[Yes, sir.]] But I have to figure it out. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's not that easy.]] [[Mr. Marshal, you're not talking about anything.]] Please, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, the representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u662	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I must say with sadness that only weak people really try to build their political capital on people with disabilities. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Disgraceful!]] It's the country you're doing. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly!]] High Izbo! It is true, Mr President, that I have made such an assurance that we will try again to analyse everything. That doesn't mean there's no... And this was in a specific situation - in a situation where a representative of the Ombudsman said that for disabled people this form of voting, correspondence voting, is more important than a proxy vote. [[Yes, sir.]] So there was this particular reflection. I am glad that the Member nods his head. [[And we thought you'd react to that and withdraw from the wrong amendment.]] Next case, sir. I would like to mention to you a document - particularly Mr Trzaskowski should be pleased - the European Commission for Democracy by law, the Venice Commission. Code of good practice in electoral matters, paragraph 38:. Post voting and proxy voting are allowed in Western countries, but patterns vary considerably. For example, voting by post may be widespread in one country and prohibited in another because of the risk of fraud. High Izbo, as it happens in the context of correspondence voting, is allowed in the local elections in 13 countries of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[14.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u663	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 37th, 38th and 39th would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 194 against - 231, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. Motion 40 is pointless. In the 41st minority proposal to Article. 40c applicants propose a different wording § 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 41st request from the minority, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 65, against 234, with 124 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the same 42nd and 43rd minority proposals, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 41. We will vote on these proposals together. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 42. The question is asked by Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the Chamber: Just politely, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u664	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is a very, very important change and I would like a moment of focus, including you, Mr. President. I'm really serious. This is... [[Voice from the room: Just don't yell.]] [[Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: No such trips.]] Mr. Marshal... Don't be nervous, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u665	Please ask the question, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u666	But maybe the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u667	...not to discuss with individual Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u668	Again. In line with the changes you're proposing, you're creating a mechanism for falsifying elections. You must be aware that you are creating a mechanism for falsifying elections. [[Voice from the room: That's it!]] If you think that any way on the ballot is possible to include any thing, including the grate where the vote is placed, then you are creating a mechanism for voiding the votes. [[Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: No!]] You create a mechanism for counterfeiting and take responsibility for it. [[Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: Lying!]] Mr. Błaszczak, you're not screaming. [[Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: Mr. Marshal, please respond.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u669	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that by acting like this, you are violating the seriousness of the Sejm. And that's what I'm saying... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...in accordance with Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by You're violating... [[I suggest you punish everyone.]] ...the Sejm's seriousness, and you're preventing me from holding my deliberations. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention again not to disturb the sitting of the Sejm. [[We're paying attention too, Marshal!]] Art. Point (c) of the first 3... [[Voice from the room: Don't threaten, what are you threatening?]] ...this is the last time you'll be warned about the rule of law. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Scandal.]] [[You don't know what you're voting, think a little bit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u670	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important amendment. The State shall amend Article. 41 as follows: Adding the additional numbers of lists and names on the voting card or making other marks or additions to the voting card, including in the box, in or outside the box, does not affect the validity of the vote cast on it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a simple way to forgery the election. [[Applause]] I don't know if you care. [[Take that finger, stick it in your nose.]] You're gonna have to answer for yourselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u671	Thank you. Mr Horała, Member of the Law and Justice Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u672	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question as to whether it is not worth listening to the voice of the Platform Member and the former Platform Member on falsifying elections, because we are dealing with the voices of experts. A short quote. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] The Wałbrzych District Court has announced a verdict on electoral corruption. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] On the jury of the defendants... [[What's this?]] Wojciech W. and Marcin B. The first of the men is... [[Mr. Marshal, is that okay with you?]] ...a husband of a district councilman from the Civic Platform Club. Marcin B. paid 15 to the Walbrzychani for 20 PLN in exchange for a specific vote. [[What does that have to do with anything, Marshal?]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Corrupt voters cast their votes for a candidate for the county council, for the city council, for the sejm and for the president of the city, who [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] He was running for re-election. And watch out...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u673	Mr President, I ask you to refer to... [[This has absolutely nothing to do with this.]] ... 42nd and 43rd minority proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u674	I'm almost done, Marshal. One sentence at the end. All candidates indicated [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] They applied for tickets from the Civic Platform list. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Read the article. 175.]] [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Hurts!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u675	Ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R.]] You shout, I do not hear the words spoken by the Members who are on the stand. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[This is outrageous, what you're doing. This is an outrage. It's a shame.]] And Mr Dunin, I would like to give you a heads-up. You're screaming for the sixth time. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] Next time, it'll be a rule-of-law warning. So don't yell, and this way don't interfere with the proceedings. [[Perhaps you would recommend Mr Horala.]] [[This is a scandal, really.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 42nd and 43rd will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 193 voted against - 237, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 42nd amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 41. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u676	I must complete Mr Schreiber's statement, the position of the Venice Commission, because you did not mention it in its entirety: however, when taking appropriate precautions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u677	But, sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u678	...if the risk has been ruled out...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u679	...with reference to the 42nd amendment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But how? What are you doing?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u680	...by mail voting can be used... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[What's this?]] ...to give the floor to hospital patients, people with reduced mobility and voters...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u681	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u682	...who lives abroad.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u683	... 42nd Amendment, we're at 42nd Amendment. [[Do you remember now?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u684	And I have a question about this amendment, Mr. Marshal, before you punish me. I have a question because in your 2014 electoral programme you announced: to restore a place in society for people with disabilities, to create a system of social rehabilitation as well. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Liars.]] Why don't you want a little case like making it easier for people who are chained to bed...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u685	Mr President, your speech does not concern the 42nd amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u686	You're gonna take away their authority... [[Liars!]] ...to participate in the electoral process. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u687	I would like to remind Mr Breeza in his article. 175... [[And the Horals don't you reprimand?]] ...at the moment of the mouth. 3. [[But for what?]] Let me remind you of the 42nd amendment. [[Shame.]] Make the wording of the article. 41... [[Game in the O.R.]] I quote: Adding additional numbers of lists and names on the voting card... [[Because you've already voted.]] ...or making other notes outside the grate doesn't affect the validity of the voice cast on it. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: That's already been done, we've already voted it out.]] [[But we voted out.]] Mr. President, I am so sorry, I can't... [[Mr. Marshal, the wrong amendment.]] ...to recognize your statement as a comment on the matter. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Game in the O.R.]] Don't yell, ladies and gentlemen. [[Who gave you that right?]] Especially if you scream, do not shout. [[You made a mistake.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 42 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 195 voted against - 234, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 44th minority application, applicants propose not to repeal Article. 43. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u688	Dear Marshal, Thank you very much. I'm dropping the question. [[Applause]] [[That's professional.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u689	Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u690	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is precisely because the documents were delivered 15 minutes before the beginning of the meeting that the Marshal himself does not know what amendment the discussion is about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u691	Member, please refer to the 44th minority proposal, I am warning you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u692	The State Election Commission, following the changes you are proposing, returns to its shape from the Stalinist period, when the biggest electoral forgeries took place under this committee. Do you want to follow this commission? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u693	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 44th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 76 voted against - 232, with 114 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. 45. the minority's request is irrelevant. In the same minority applications 46, 47 and 48, applicants propose not to repeal Chapter 6a in Section I. We will vote on them together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 46, 47 and 48 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 193 voted against - 232, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. 51. amendment and derivatives are without object. In the 53rd amendment to the article. 70 applicants propose amendments to § 1a and 1b. Amendment 67 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u694	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns procedures for determining election results: not counting votes, but determining election results. Like a question to the applicants: Have you made a mistake, gentlemen, by introducing the name of the committee for determining the results of the elections? Because on what basis is that supposed to be - I understand that counting votes? Are there gonna be any other procedures that will lead you to determine the outcome of the election in accordance with... [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: In the present codebook written. The wording of the current code.]] ...with your procedures or your ideas? And who's to decide? The election commissioner, Minister Błaszczak, is to determine these results or...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u695	Mr President, I warn you that in this way you are once again violating the seriousness of the Sejm. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] [[No, Mr. Marshal.]] [[The Marshal violates the rules of the Sejm.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u696	Mr. Marshal, I want one more thing... Mr Marshal has very often pointed out that Members are violating the seriousness. The whole process of this bill and the way in which... [[Scandal. This is a scandal and a disgrace.]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u697	Thank you, sir. It's not about the amendment. Mr Łukasz Schreiber asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u698	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very short. This is a very strong attack from... [[Attack?]] ...you're a member of the electoral code. I would like to make it clear to you that the title of Chapter 9 of the electoral code is: "Fixing the results of voting in the circuit." That's the title of this chapter. High Izbo, therefore, should be adapted to what is contained in the electoral code by proceding an act such as an amendment. I encourage you to read it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u699	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 53rd and 67th, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 61 votes against - 345 and 23 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Mr Jakubiak with a formal request. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u700	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of Kukiz, 15, I'm filing for a 20-minute break. We're halfway through the vote, we'll be done at 3:00 in the morning, worth a cup of coffee... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] ...and I can see that everything is... [[There's no coffee.]] That's the restaurant you chose. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u701	Is there a motion against it? [[Voice from the room: 10 minutes.]] [[For the club.]] There isn't, or... Is there a motion against it? [[Voice from the room: Against!]] 'Cause if there's no objection, I'm declaring... [[For the club.]] Is there a motion? [[Voice from the hall: For the club.]] Is it? Because I can't hear you. Wait a minute. Who is filing a motion against you? [[For the club, marshal, for the club.]] There's a motion against... [[Mr. Marshal, for the club!]] ...then we must proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u702	Mr. Marshal, with a vote against it. We're not gonna sit till morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u703	We'll proceed with the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[But it was for the club, not a formal conclusion.]] Who among you is in favour of declaring a break will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 193 votes against - 228, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm's formal motion was rejected. [[For the club, Mr. Marshal. This is breaking the rules of the Sejm's seriousness.]] [[He'll stop being a marshal someday, but he'll be ashamed of what he's doing.]] In the 50th minority application, applicants propose not to repeal Article. 72. Members ask questions. Member of Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u704	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The IT system is very complex and requires hundreds of hours of testing, and its creation is a very complicated task. I ask very strongly: Will the Members of the applicants today from this tribune ensure that elections will be held effectively and efficiently in 2018 in such a short period of time? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u705	Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Thank you. We'll proceed to the... [[Voice from the room: He's coming, he's coming.]] Is the envoy coming? Here you go, sir, because we are about to vote. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u706	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! And it shows a mess, because I just reported that we're pulling back... [[Voices from the room: Into the microphone!]] This shows a mess because we pulled out a moment ago... and I've withdrawn, like, 20 of my speeches. It shows the speed, the sloppyness of this Seym... [[Voice from the room: Sit down.]] ...and how you've been here for many years. [[Applause]] [[Professional.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u707	Mr President, this does not apply to the proposal 50. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 50th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, if he's resigned, strike him out.]] [[Voice from the room: He woke up.]] 409 Members voted. The vote was 67, against 226, with 116 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Ladies and gentlemen, don't shout, don't make it harder for me to vote, it'll be correct. [[No, that's impossible.]] [[No one makes it as difficult for you as you do.]] In the 51st minority proposal, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 75. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 51st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 185 voted against - 227, 3 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 64th amendment, the applicants propose a new wording § 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 64, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 269, against - 124, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 52nd minority proposal to Article. 103b applicants propose, inter alia, in paragraph 1, delete point 4. We'll proceed with the vote. [[I'm in, Mr. Marshal.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 52nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 186 voted against - 232, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 53rd minority proposal to Article. 103c applicants propose to make a different wording § 2. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u708	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, I propose that observers who may be in the process of holding elections, as well as in the course of counting votes, give the same powers that men of confidence have, so that they may make amendments... not amendments, but remarks on the minutes, so that they simply are treated equally. There is, of course, a catalogue of entities that can report their observers. These are non-governmental organisations that deal with respect for human rights. Therefore, I do not see any problem here. On the other hand, I do not understand why you, when deciding to introduce this, give them the opportunity to participate in some way in the work of the regional committees, give them less rights. This is absolutely incomprehensible. Laws should be leveled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u709	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 53rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 192 voted against - 230 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 54th minority proposal to Article. 106 applicants propose to delete paragraph 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 54th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 69, against 225, with 118 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 71st amendment, applicants propose to maintain Article. 155. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u710	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You read that in the 71st amendment, the applicant proposes to maintain the article. 155, whereas in print No 2113-A in the 71st amendment is: in Article. 5 delete paragraph 48, so in view of possible sanctions for the purpose of the wrong question, I will depart from the question. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u711	I read it well because it was a change, sir. We're talking about an article. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 71 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 191 against - 231, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the same minority applications 55, 56 and 57, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 157. Their adoption will result in an unobtrusive conclusion between 58th and 60th. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u712	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is one of those amendments that prove the intention of the authors of this project - the full politicalisation of the electoral process, the full politicisation of the State Election Commission, the conversion of the independent State Election Commission to the party, chosen by politicians from Nowogrodzka. Until now, the members of the State Election Commission have pointed out the judges' environments so that they are individuals of public trust. Now the members of the PiS propose that the members of the committee elect the Sejm. Seven will choose the Sejm, seven will choose the majority of Law and Justice. This amendment de facto ends with independent PKW in Poland. This is a demonstration of your true intentions. You want the constitutional body to oversee the quality of the election to be politicized and to be able to cuddle at the election. That's your intention. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u713	That wasn't a question, sir, I am so sorry. [[What was?]] [[But he was more polite.]] Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u714	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Probably an hour ago, one of the Members of Law and Justice said that they were the last ones to be politicised in relation to the State Election Commission. This change is exactly what your intentions are. You want to replace the judges with your party representatives. Aye, aye, gentlemen. You want to introduce a representation in the National Election Commission, which would in some sense reflect parliamentary representation. That's not the point. The State Election Commission is from the point of view of ensuring a completely impartial conduct of the elections. And the state, I don't know why, a well-functioning system you want to politicize. What's the condition? What are you following? That's what you should answer for yourselves. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Something similar.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u715	Thank you. The applicant would like to respond to the issues raised. There you go, Mr Łukasz Schreiber.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u716	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very substantive... [[Voice from the room: We'll see.]] ...but first I would like to thank Mr Kierwinski for his modesty. [[But it doesn't matter.]] He has already admitted that after the elections in 2019 Law and Justice will have a majority. [[Applause]] It's a brave assumption and it's very right. However, I would like to point out, High Izbo, that even if the Law and Justice have 80% parking tickets... [[Stop dreaming.]] ...that according to these records will be able to recommend only three out of seven representatives - according to these assumptions. [[Prime Minister Gowin and Minister Ziobro.]] And I would like to say, High Izbo, about the three models that work in Europe. The first model, you can say, dominant, is a mixed model, parliamentary-judge model, which we propose in this project. I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that the President of the State Election Commission, as proposed, must be the representative of the judiciary, i.e. the representative designated by the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Muszyński, best Muszyński.]] ...be the Supreme Administrative Court. [[Voice from the room: It will be.]] This model operates in 16 countries in Europe. The second most common model is the government model, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] which gives the Minister of Home Affairs, the Minister of Justice or possibly the Minister of Local Government to take care of the elections. And there is the third model, the least popular, but of course used, which is the judge's model, which occurs in Poland, Italy and in such a thriving democracy as it is in Turkey. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u717	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the minority proposals 55, 56 and 57, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 194 against - 235. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 58th minority proposal to Article. 157 applicants propose in § 2 delete point 3. Its adoption will result in the futility of proposals 59th and 60th. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u718	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! By supplementing the Member's statement on these models once again - the model you proposed was historically functioning in Poland, in the Act of 1 August 1952. According to Art. 18 The State Election Commission was set up by the Council of States.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u719	But, sir, please refer to the 58th minority proposal. [[The voice from the courtroom: But, Marshal...]] [[Question is, that's the question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u720	The execution of the State Election Commission is a model that we have tested... [[The voice from the hall: You're delusional!]] ...and from which in 1989, in 1990. Poland was happy to leave. This is another proof of what patterns you're using. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u721	(PL) Mr President, please ask the question. I must point out once again to you that, speaking not about... [[Voices from the O.R.: About!]] [[Stop talking, stop embarrassing yourself.]] ...without referring in substance to the next minority proposal, it introduces in a sense a form of obstruction in the conduct of the deliberations. [[You can't keep up with the marshal!]] Yes, it's difficult for me to vote if you scream and say no about it. [[The materials are badly prepared.]] So I warn you that this will unfortunately end with difficult situations for some. [[Voice from the room: Do not threaten.]] [[Well, tragic.]] Tragically, no, but there will be regulatory consequences. [[You're gonna lose the election, that's how it's gonna end.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 58th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 61 voted against - 234, with 130 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 59th minority proposal to Article. 157 § 2 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 3. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 60th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is accepting the 59th minority proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 61 voted against - 356, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 60th minority proposal to Article. 157 § 2 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 3. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u722	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The idea that the election match to the local government is to be set in its own way is confirmed by the records that allow for the rapid destruction of electoral records. In your opinion, it is to be kept in archives for up to 2 years. Why do you want to destroy documentation so quickly? [[Voice from the room: How many were there now?]] [[30 days.]] You might have something to hide.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u723	Mr President, but the 60th minority proposal does not concern this matter you are talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u724	We demand in our amendment that this period be extended to 5 years. [[Peter, how much was it now?]] [[How much was it now? How much?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u725	Mr President, I am so sorry. I draw your attention to the fact that you're not talking about it. Member Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, came forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u726	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I refer to Mr Krzysztof Brejza, who referred to the system...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u727	Mr President, please submit a question to the rapporteur or the applicant.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u728	...and to the rapporteur: Does the rapporteur know that Mr Brejza has slightly misquoted the historical theme of the election of the State Election Commission? [[As always.]] [[As always.]] [[Voice from the room: First time.]] That is, the model in which the execution representative elected the President, the representative of the judicial authority, and was also part of the...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u729	Mr President, talk about Amendment 60.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u730	...six deputies, representatives of six different clubs, this is a model from 1946...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u731	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are saying...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u732	...not 1952. That's the model you're presenting today. [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Find out which year.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u733	I urge you to speak to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u734	1946 - the most Stalinist model. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u735	I'm returning to you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u736	That's accurate... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u737	Mr President, I must take away your voice. [[Marshal, come on.]] I draw your attention. I must say that you have deliberately said no about the subject, you have spoken out of the question, and so I would point out that in this way, in breach of the seriousness of the Sejm, you have prevented me from taking part in the proceedings. So I'm reproving you in the Art Act. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3. [[Voices from the Chamber: We vote.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 60th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 63 votes against - 357 and 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In the same minority proposals 61, 62 and 63, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 158. We will vote on them together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the minority proposals 61, 62 and 63 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 186 voted against - 234, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the same minority applications 64th and 65th applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 159. We will vote on them together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 64th and 65th will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. One Member abstained in voting 189 against - 233. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 72nd amendment to the article. 161a applicants propose a new wording § 2 and addition of § 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 72 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 251 voted against - 130, 44 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 66th minority proposal, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of Chapter 3 of Chapter II. The question will be asked by Mr Waldy Dzikowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u738	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Voice from the O.R.: Not on the subject.]] [[Time's up.]] [[Art. 175.]] [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] I can do it. Easy. The applicants proposed that 400 electoral commissioners be appointed. They knew that the State Election Commission was unable to appoint so many electoral commissioners. They have therefore come up with a brilliant idea of setting up 100 electoral commissioners - four times less - based on senate districts. I congratulate you on the idea, because first of all, there will be such cases in Krakow, Łódź, Wrocław, Warsaw, where there will not be known in the district council, who determines and announces the results of the elections. It will also not be known who registers candidates and lists. No, you won't know. It will also not be known whether Mr. Kowalski sometimes sits on one and the other circuit board, because the senate districts are not compatible with certain districts and municipalities, gentlemen. You're really gonna lead to complete misinformation and disaster. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Someday you'll see it as the authors of it, unfortunately...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u739	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u740	...a weak document. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u741	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 66th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. One Member abstained in the vote 193 against - 234. The Sejm's motion is denied. Conclusions 67th and 68th are pointless. In the 75th amendment to the article. 166 applicants propose a new wording § The third sentence of the first sentence. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 75 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 72 votes against - 231, with 122 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. 69. the application is unsubstantiated. The 70th motion is unsubstantiated. 81st Amendment. In the 81st amendment, applicants propose to maintain Article. 181. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 81st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 170 voted against - 236, 24 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Conclusions 71nd and 72nd are pointless. 86th Amendment. In this amendment to the article. 182 applicants propose to add § 8a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 86 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 268 against - 147, 19 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 89th amendment, applicants propose an amendment to Article. § 188 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 89 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 422 against - 9, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the same minority proposals 73 and 74, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 190 § 2. We will vote on these proposals together. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 90 and 171. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club. [[Voice from the room: Move, move.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u742	Ladies and gentlemen! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 190 are talking about the appointment and cancellation of the head of the National Election Office. As you know, the National Election Office is the executive body of the State Election Commission. Until now, the Head has only been appointed by the State Election Commission. You're making a complete change here. You are de facto subordinateing the National Election Office to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u743	Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u744	High Izbo! Never enough explaining to the Poles what you're changing. At the moment, the Head of the National Election Office shall be appointed and cancelled by the State Election Commission at the request of its President. What's in your proposal? What will the dependent electoral administration look like? [[Voice from the room: Question.]] The head of the National Election Office will be pointed out by Minister Błaszczak, and in fact you will be President Kaczyński. The State Election Commission will only be able to select from among the three candidates presented by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Where did you find these new competences of the Home Minister? In the government department, internal affairs, it is stated that Minister Błaszczak can deal with: combating the effects of natural disasters, does not do this, fire protection...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u745	Sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u746	...security and public order. [[Where's the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u747	Speak of the minority's request.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u748	None of these powers give you the right to have the Minister responsible for Home Affairs [[♪ The bell ♪]] he pointed out to the candidate... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u749	Thank you, sir. I am very sorry, sir, but I believe that the question did not entirely concern both minority proposals. [[It was on the subject.]] [[Voice from the room: But 90%.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the minority proposals 73rd and 74th would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 179 voted against - 246, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 90th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 190. Amendment 171 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Their adoption will result in the futility of minority proposals 131, 132 and 133 and amendment 170. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u750	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of the Seym! You promised the Poles a democratic package, and you serve them a package democracy in which, of course, the control package is to hold one party, the leading force of the nation. It's a devil's idea to own an institution that is responsible for making independent, fair choices. As soon as this law is adopted, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration will propose three candidates, of which the Head of the State Election Commission will have to choose one. If he fails, Minister Błaszczak will appoint the head of the National Election Office himself. Ladies and gentlemen! Why, Mr. Marshal, I ask the question, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In such a satanic way, you want to own the institution that is responsible for the election? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u751	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor. Of course, this has nothing to do with Satan's ways. [[Specialist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u752	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, in this change that you proposed at second reading, the State Election Commission has the possibility to elect a head from among the three candidates appointed by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Moreover, it also has the right not to exercise that right. [[Voice from the room: Good for you.]] What then? The decision will then be taken by the Head and he will elect the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration from among the three candidates. I have a question for the Members of the applicants. What was the inspiration for such a record? In preparing for today's debate, I have stated that there is a statute of one political formation, where members have the right to choose as head of the district a candidate designated by the President, and may not choose him. If they don't pick him, the president's gonna point him out. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u753	Thank you, sir. Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u754	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the original version of the head of the National Election Office to be appointed on request [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The Seym, the Senate and the President. In the course of the procedure, applicants changed this procedure and, as has already been said, the head of the CWB will be appointed at the request of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The question to the applicants is simple. Why should it be set up by the State Election Commission, e.g. Not by the head of the State Election Commission? If by the PKW, in what mode, according to which quorum? How will the appeal take place? [[Applause]] [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: It is written.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u755	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u756	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question directly on the content of this amendment. It is written here that the following paragraph is added: 2a: Head of the National Election Office shall be appointed for a period of 7 years. I § 2b: to appeal the head of the National Election Office provision § 2a shall apply mutatis mutandis. Therefore, until the appeal of the chief, the term of office of that chief shall apply. Can you explain this to me? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Please come and explain. How is it that § 2a refers to the term of office and § 2b is talking about cancellation. What does one have to do with the other? Please answer me. [[Applause]] [[They have no idea.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u757	Thank you. Mr Horała, Member of the Law and Justice Club, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Little Kazio...]] Mr Nitras...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u758	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u759	Excuse me, sir. Once again, I draw Mr Nitras' attention. You're approaching the red line. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] There you go, Mr Horal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u760	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question. Here comes the voice that the Minister of the Interior will prepare three candidates. The National Election Commission to choose from... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] ...this is some hell on earth, a devil's idea. [[That's not the amendment.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, I have this question: What hell is this lack of democracy in 10 European countries, such as... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] ... France, Germany, the Czech Republic, Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, where does the Ministry of Home Affairs organize the whole election? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Here, I'll just prepare three candidates for the PKW. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It is also worth learning how the body differs from the office. The CWB is an organ, it is an authority that executes the decisions of the body, the PKW, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Mr President, this is what the office wrote for you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u761	Thank you very much. [[And the answer?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 90 and 171, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 222 voted against - 207, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. 75. The proposal is irrelevant. Conclusions 76th and 77th are pointless. The 78th motion is unsubstantiated. Conclusions 79 and 80 are pointless. The 81st and 82nd conclusions are pointless. In the 83rd minority proposal, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 400. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 83rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 66 voted against - 234, with 126 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 84th minority proposal, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 401. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 84th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 64 voted against - 235, with 123 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. 85. The proposal is unsubstantiated. The conclusions of 86th and 87th are pointless. In the 88th minority proposal to Article. 402 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the introduction into the calculation in § 5. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 88th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 64 voted against - 234, with 131 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendment 110. and its derivatives are irrelevant. Minority proposals 89, 90 and 91 are pointless. The 92nd and 93rd conclusions are pointless. The conclusions of 94th and 95th are pointless. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] 96. The proposal is unsubstantiated. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is serious. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] In the 97th minority proposal, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 422. [[He's awake.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 97th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 171 voted against - 234, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. 98. The application is unsubstantiated. Minority requests 99 and 100 are pointless. 101. the minority's request is irrelevant. 102. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but concentrate. This is one of the hardest votes ever. [[Joy in the Chamber]] because of the numerous proposals and amendments that are being blocked. Please note that the Legislative Bureau and the Sejm meeting committee had their hands full. [[Voice from the room: Doubts.]] In the 102nd minority proposal, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 431. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 102nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 197, against - 236, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. 103. The proposal is unsubstantiated. 104. the application is unsubstantiated. [[Voice from the room: Ole!]] 105. The proposal is unsubstantiated. [[Voices from the hall: Ole!]] 106th motion is irrelevant. [[Voices from the hall: Ole!]] 107. The proposal is unsubstantiated. [[Voices from the hall: Ole!]] 108. The proposal is unsubstantiated. 109. the proposal is unsubstantiated. [[Voice from the room: Come on! Come on!]] The 110th motion is irrelevant. Conclusions 111, 112 and 113 are pointless. [[Voices from the hall: Ole!]] 147th amendment is without object. [[Voices from the hall: Ole!]] 114. The proposal is unsubstantiated. 115. the application is unsubstantiated. We are voting on the 116th motion. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] In the 116th minority proposal, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club. [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. [[Voice from the room: I don't want to.]] Good. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 116th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[I'm all for it.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. One Member abstained in the vote in 197, against - 231. The Sejm's motion is denied. The 117th motion is irrelevant. We are voting on the proposals 118th and 119th. The applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 462. We will vote on them together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 118th and 119th will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 195 voted against - 232, 1 member abstained. I find that the Sejm has rejected its conclusions. Conclusions 120 and 121 are pointless. 122. the application is without object. Conclusions 123, 124 and 125 are the same and we will vote on them. The applicants in these proposals propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 472. We will vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendment 160. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u762	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, you are very pleased with the unobtrusiveness of minority proposals. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Do you know what that means? That you accepted our reasoning and accepted the proposals we made to you during the committee's deliberations. [[And bravo.]] You're right. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And now I'm referring to the amendment. You want to ban the candidates for the mayor or the mayor from running for county council... [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] ...or the voivodship council. [[And the president of the United States.]] Why are people active who want to prove themselves in the election of the mayor or are you cutting off the way to any activity in local governments? The situation will be that the candidate [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] If he doesn't become a mayor or a mayor, he will be excluded from self-government activities at all. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You can laugh about it, but it's just a stupid amendment. [[It's a lie.]] And I ask you to reject it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u763	Mr Łukasz Schreiber will respond on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u764	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Almost there, sir. [[Voice from the room: Excuse me?]] I mean, yes: we really want and propose to the High House that the candidate for the mayor, mayor and president should not run for the county and for the sejm of the voivodeship, because you know very well that it is most often used only to cast votes on letters. You have just protested so loudly that it is the proportional ordination that is so wrong that it perverts. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] So we're eliminating one of the situations that perverts these results. And case number two. Of course, he will be able to prove himself, he will be able to prove himself perfectly, because he will be able to run for councilman. It is appropriate for him to be the leader of the opposition in the commune. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u765	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 123, 124 and 125 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 193 voted against - 237, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 160th amendment to the article. 472 applicants propose to delete § 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 160 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. One Member abstained in favour of 198 against 236. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 126th minority proposal, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 126th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 67, against - 235, with 132 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. The 127th motion is unsubstantiated. Conclusions 128, 129 and 130 and Amendment 169. In these cases, applicants shall propose to delete Article. 7 draft amending act. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u766	Do you hear those insulting voices? Do you hear me, Marshal? Did you hear what was said just now?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u767	Mr President, please refer to the 169th amendment and to minority proposals.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u768	But you heard? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u769	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u770	Mr. Marshal, when someone hears on the left ear and doesn't hear on the right ear, he's not exactly a healthy man.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u771	Mr President, this does not apply to 128. a minority proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u772	That has to be taken into account. [[Applause]] And this is a scandal, Mr. Marshal, you can't hear...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u773	Mr President, please refer to the minority request.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u774	Mr. Marshal, you're not talking about anything either. I say what your fellow Members say on the right.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u775	Mr President, I am going to have to take your vote away because you are not talking about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u776	This amendment means that you, first of all, assume that you count on losing the local elections. I'm not surprised. Then you will lose the European elections because it is difficult with such a leader to win elections in Europe. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Get off me.]] But then what? And then you guaranteed yourself the right to change the PKW in 2019. [[That's not a question. Where's the question?]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, where is the question?]] The outgoing parliamentary majority changes the PKW before the lost elections. It's an election. Elections should be independent and the State Election Commission should be independent... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u777	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. And I urge Mr Nitras... [[Voice from the hall: For what?]] ...and I would like to point out to you once again that your speech violates the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[And how?]] Please, Mr Grabowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u778	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question: "Why should the term of office of the State Election Commission be extinguished?" These minority proposals propose the deletion of the Article. 9 so that the National Election Commission can continue to process. What has she done to you that you want to shorten her term? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u779	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Me too.]] Has Mr Zgorzelski come forward yet? [[No.]] To the secretariat, sir, to the secretary. Yeah, he volunteered? [[Yes, he did.]] Here you go, Mr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u780	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The term of office of the State Election Commission lasts 9 years and ends on 1 January 2025. My question is therefore: Why should the term of office of the State Election Commission be shortened? I would ask Members of the applicants to finally also answer the questions I had asked earlier. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u781	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the minority proposals 128, 129 and 130 and Amendment 169 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 198 voted against - 237, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposals. Conclusions 131., 132. and 133. are irrelevant. [[What do you mean, "no object"?]] [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: What a disappointment.]] Amendment 170 is pointless. [[A voice from the hall: But you're making a mess, marshal.]] [[The voice in the room: You're in a mess.]] The 134th and 135th conclusions are pointless. Conclusions 136, 137 and 138 are irrelevant. We are voting on Amendment 175 in which applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 11 draft amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 175 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. There were 273 votes against and 156 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Minority requests 139, 140 and 141 refer to the deletion of Article. 12 draft amending act. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Mr Waldy Dzikowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u782	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No, Mr Horala, three years. Once again, you'll find out that after 60 talks with the opposition, we helped you... [[Voice from the room: Question!]] ...though a little bit to save the honor of this electoral code, which is for the people. But we will not help to compromise elections in Poland. You're gonna do this on your own. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u783	However, I encourage you to follow the rules of procedure. Member Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15, raises a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u784	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question because there's something I don't understand. Here is in the article: competent regional electoral commissioners will divide the commune into permanent voting circuits. I mean, these commissioners were supposed to be 100, and they're not supposed to be county commissioners. Are you gentlemen able to explain this because... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You know, the mess is terrible. Please explain this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u785	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 139., 140. and 141. would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 196, against 233, with five abstentions. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In 177th amendment, the applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 12 draft amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u786	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Question for the Member of the applicant. Can the applicant explain to his colleagues in his club and to all the Members in the Chamber that, first, in one week, you delete everything, and after two weeks, what you have deleted, you restore? What's more... [[Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: And once you support, and once you protest.]] Excuse me, sir. Then you turn the pleural room into an emergency commission. Question: "Aren't you people supposed to be preparing an amendment today for what you're starting to do and what you're going to do?" Because it's inconsistent. [[Applause]] And the question to which you did not answer: Are you sure there will be 100 or 300 Commissioners? It's a mess, sir, it's a mess, you've made a mess. Explain that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u787	Commissioner, however, 177. The amendment concerns something else. Excuse me, sir. [[There's nothing like a good mood.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 177 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 275, against four, with 155 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the same minority applications 142 and 143, the applicants propose to delete Article. 13 draft amending act. We will vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 178. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15. [[Voice from the hall: But he doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u788	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, because here in the article it says that the head of the National Election Office, the newly appointed one, is to appoint officials again. So, there are no officials in this election office? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Who's he calling there? Is it supposed to prove? Ladies and gentlemen, please explain. I know that there will be amendment 178 in a moment, so, Members, if you cannot answer the question about minority proposals, why not at least explain the amendment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u789	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the minority proposals 142th and 143th, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. There were 198 votes against - 235, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 178th amendment, the applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 13 draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 178 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 145 voted against - 236, with 55 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The 144th motion is irrelevant. In 179th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 14 draft amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 179 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. There were 241 votes against - 14, 181 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 180th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 15 draft amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 180 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 236 voted against - 66, with 131 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 181. the amendment is without object. There are questions for the whole thing. Member of Piotr Zgorzelski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u790	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This performance of pushing the knees of changes of the Polish self-government is coming to an end. This should not be the law that is intended to make the life of our compatriots, the inhabitants of our small homelands. This should not be done and the state's system should be changed by means of these types of ticks, such as the parliamentary project. Ladies and gentlemen! You didn't find at least a little empathy and reflection, and you completely voted out of this draft correspondence vote. The Poles will not forget this. You introduced the Commissioner's institution to foreign governments, which in the process [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've been modifying legislation because you haven't been able to establish one line.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u791	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u792	The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote against this evil project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u793	Thank you very much. Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u794	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You destroyed the correspondence vote - you hit the disabled. You destroyed a two-day vote. Politicalisation of the State Election Commission. You didn't take the chance to move Kukiz to 2/3 and 3/5. Glory to God, you've smarted up with the domicil. Proceding at this speed here in Parliament. Chaos in committee, chaos in parliament at all, while trying to figure it out. And the most important thing is that you didn't give anybody one-mandate electoral districts. You're the one-mandate electoral districts you've limited. You have to understand that. You've narrowed it down. [[Applause]] Thus you restrict citizens' access to local government because you are afraid of one-mandate electoral districts, because if this institution existed, we would never proceed like this, never. [[The bell, the applause.]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u795	Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u796	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! When this project was created, the PKW estimated that it looked like it was written by little Kazio. How to process this project, number of amendments, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] and there are over 100 of them, created by the authors, made it possible to estimate that at the moment this is a complete disgrace both to your camp and to the authors. What else have you achieved? This project has made it harder for the disabled to vote. You've caused the PKW to be stubborn. You've made the commissioners stubborn. You have caused no one to believe in the trueness of the choice because the way we vote, the stamp to confirm the choice made, will be such that it will be very easy to fake the election. One would like to ask: If you feel so strong, if you have such strong support, then why You just didn't give in to democracy? Why didn't you decide that you could win fair elections? We are dealing with a situation that you have ultimately embarrassed the municipal election institution. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u797	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u798	Thank you, Marshal. After politicising, after the stubbornness of the National Court and Supreme Court, the politicisation and stubbornness of the State Election Commission. The Corps has so far been independent, with the status of judges, the commissioners you are converting to officials subordinate to your minister and vice-president of your party. All of this is to protect yourself from the anger of Poles and from the red card that will happen to you for the first time next year, in the coming years it will be next. [[Voice from the hall: Don't scare, don't scare.]] You can't manipulate the election, you can't win by cheating. You've got 38%. Support... [[How much?]] ...you have no right to destroy the Republic of Poland. You're gonna lose this election. The Union of European Democrats opposed the second reading rejection of this project. Now we call on everyone to vote against this evil law, which is going to forge elections in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u799	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Piechot, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. I'd just like to ask questions. We're in the middle of questions, not statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u800	High Seym! The elimination of correspondence voting is symbolic for this project. It shows disrespect or even contempt for people. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] It deprives many opportunities for exercising fundamental civil rights. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] The applicants don't know what they're talking about. Maybe because they're so young and inexperienced people. [[Applause]] For many, there is no other option than a correspondence vote. For people who can't leave the house, there's no place without barriers. [[By proxy.]] [[Shut up!]] Even the professor doesn't know what he's talking about. For a lonely person, there's nothing a proxy can do. Who's he gonna appoint as a proxy? I'd like to explain more to you outside this room. [[By proxy.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] [[A little respect.]] You don't know how long we've been working on these solutions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even using such an argument, you deprive such people of the opportunity to take part in the election - because they can sell their vote. Such insinuations are simply disgraceful.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u801	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u802	If there is a real risk of counterfeiting in the electoral procedure...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u803	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u804	Are you going to eliminate the election? Come to your senses! [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u805	Thank you, sir. Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk, a club called Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u806	Mr. Marshal! Playing with people with disabilities is a disgrace, right. [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] [[Voices from the hall: Get off the platform!]] It's playing with this, while you know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think we're leaving the proxy vote. You know that we have proposed a pro-Citizen bill to restore confidence in the integrity of elections. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You know perfectly well that we propose that we finally introduce structural changes in local governments, which will increase the participation of citizens in the lives of these local authorities. [[Voices from the room: Falsify.]] It's a country that doesn't agree to a change in vote on the ballot, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You hit people with disabilities. And now, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot hear the arguments. The fact that you've been repeating the same sentences all along, like from a CD, is a testimony to your intellectual poverty. The way you're acting right now shows you're not capable of working on pro-Citizen projects. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: shame, shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u807	Thank you, sir. Mr Łukasz Schreiber asks for the floor on behalf of the applicants. [[Voices from the room: Apologize!]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u808	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: Apologize to the disabled!]] Your behavior at this point shows what would have happened if you hadn't let God win the election. [[Voice from the room: Apologize!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] There's already a shoe and arrogance in you today. [[Applause]] [[You'll see!]] High Izbo! I can stand here, the applicant has no time limit. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You have nothing to say.]] There you go. You're giving your own testimony. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[We're testifying that we care.]] You bear witness to your conduct and bear witness to your political class. [[What kind of teaching is that?]] Congratulations. Congratulations, Mr President. Our national village Adam Mickiewicz said, "Don't be afraid of criticism, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] but fear praise very much. [[You don't respect people.]] We are not afraid of criticism, nor are we afraid to discuss it with you. [[Because you don't understand.]] We answered your questions, we answered all your doubts in the committee. You prefer an argument, a fight, a scream, a speech and a name in exchange for it. [[Applause]] High Izbo! You are accusing that these provisions of the bill can contribute to the counterfeiting of elections. [[The voice from the hall: What you're doing is a scandal.]] How can you say that? [[You're gonna drown in this hypocrisy.]] What record does that show? To prove it, High Izbo, you're saying there'll be something on a piece of paper, and then there'll be a voice other than... [[The voice from the hall: Dude, what are you talking about?]] ...you wanted to. High Izbo, if any member of the District Election Commission can paint on a piece of paper what he likes, then whatever law we make, he can fake that vote anyway. Just think. Our proposals are in front of disabled people, elderly people, sick people. [[Applause]] How can you not see it? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] There are only two explanations for this performance... [[The voice from the courtroom: You're lying!]] ...which you are giving at this point: either this is a show of unbelievable cynicism, or this is a show... [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] ...a complete misunderstanding of the legal matter. [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Intellectual poverty.]] There's no other explanation. [[Applause]] High Izbo! The representative of the Kukiz formation15 says that if the Members were elected in the JOWs, they would never have allowed such a law to be passed. I have good news for you: the Senate elected in the JOWs will proceed with this bill. [[Applause]] So we'll see what happens then. [[Do you even have a conscience?]] And finally, sympathetic representatives of PSL. Well, I understand, but I have a request for you: change your name and name as you should: We want better tables. [[Applause]] And that'll be the password for every election at the same time. [[Some of the Members chant: Miesiewicze! Teddy bear! Teddy bear!]] High Izbo! I'm asking for this bill to be adopted. [[Voice from the Chamber: Democracy!]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] High Izbo! Well... And this is your level of conversation and discussion. This is a debate. [[Voice from the room: Don't start!]] High Izbo! This is a project that enhances citizens' rights... [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] [[Bullshit!]] ...which raises the citizens' legislative initiative to the statutory rank, which ensures transparency during the voting sessions of all the authorities, a list of these votes, which provides a civic budget in the cities on the rights of the county, which provides an annual debate on the state of the commune, district and voivodeship, which, on the other hand, improves the transparency and transparency of the electoral process. Finally, in order not to remain unanswered repeated here many times with regard to the composition of the State Election Commission, I will once again refer to the Code of Good Practice in electoral matters... [[Read the whole thing!]] ... The Venice Commission. Listen: In general, the committee should consist of a judge or a lawyer - is it assured? There are two judges provided - and representatives of political parties already in parliament or those who have won a certain percentage of the votes. High Izbo! It is this project that fully completes point 75 of these recommendations to the Venice Commission. Your attitude is clear... [[We'll live, we'll see.]] ...you fight it, you fight logic, you criticize this project, and you fight yourself because you voted against things that you didn't do. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] You demanded it during the committee's work. Come to your senses! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u809	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2113, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 234 voted against - 199, two Members abstained. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 mins 27 hrs. 23 min 28]] I'm reopening the session. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 14 December this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor. No, the Member has given a statement in writing. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u810	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 11 December 2017, Prime Minister Beata Szydło ceased to act as President of the Council of Ministers. These 2 years of work, very hard and responsible work for good change, for Poland and Poles, were noticed by all of us. Reforms which were implemented by the government, headed by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, gave a real improvement to the existence of our compatriots. We welcome the rise in the sense of social security of our fellow countrymen, the elimination of the embarrassing poverty and poverty in the middle of the 21st century in the European Union, from a significant drop in unemployment to rates that have not been recorded for many years. This is your success, Prime Minister. From this place I would like to give the Prime Minister my warmest thanks from the members of the Radio Maryja Family in Chojnice for this hard work, for the results of this hard work, which mainly reach the residents forgotten by the previous team of the county-dominant Poland. The members of the Radio Maryja Family spoke highly of the work of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, who is chair of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. We have all seen the massive attacks of Members of the total opposition against you during the work on draft laws on judicial reform. It was not the constructive work of the opposition Members in the committee, it was provocations aimed at destroying and obstructing the work of the committee. The members of the Radio Maryja family address the words of great sympathy and thanks to the President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński. Great responsibility for our homeland and concern for it, which is your primary goal, gain recognition in the eyes of the listeners of Radio Maryja in Chojnice. On behalf of the members of the Family of Radio Maryja in Chojnice, I give my wish to the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for further success in reforming our homeland - in the reforms that we expect and which were included in the election program of the United Right camp. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u811	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There is no Member. Mr Jerzy Paul - in writing. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u812	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Tomorrow and Saturday, Gdynia and the Navy will commemorate the murders of officers of the Navy of the Republic of Poland who were murdered as a result of the 50's judicial crimes: counter-admiral Stanisław Mieszkowski, counter-admiral Jerzy Staniewicz and Commander Zbigniew Przybyszewski. I wanted to express my great joy that after all these years this symbolic burial and the return of sailors to the Baltic Sea would be possible. This is a good time to thank President Andrzej Duda, as well as the Ministers of National Defence, Culture and National Heritage and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you on behalf of myself, but also many Poles to all those who have made this burial possible at last. The fate of Miszkowski and Staniewicz's counter-admirals and Commander Przybyszewski is a testimony of cruel treatment by the so-called. folk power of people devoted to their homeland. After all, these officers of the pre-war Navy, the heroes of the Polish Coast from 1939 served their country honestly also after World War II. Unfairly judged in a fake trial, they were executed. Disgraced by the disgrace of traitors, they were not forgotten by their comrades of weapons, among others. by Vice Admiral Joseph Unrug, who in his will demanded their full rehabilitation. Only recently it was possible to meet the wishes of the commander of the Polish fleet and defend the Coast of 1939. The creation of a memorial quarters at the Navy cemetery, where the remains of these exceptional patriots will rest, is a small reparation to the premature death they suffered at the hands of the people. It is significant that only after 30 years of the round table thanks to the government of Law and Justice can we finally restore honor to Poles who wanted only a free, independent homeland and for this desire were murdered, heroes who were buried in collective graves after death, often under the proverbial fence, just so that the memory of them did not survive. Today, we can participate in symbolic burials of patriots such as the Inka, the Zagonian, or previously mentioned commanders. Finally, martyrs of the national cause can count on our memory and prayer. It is very important to me as a person who fights for truth and dignity so that all who are unjustly judged by history are cleansed. It is important that our heroes, especially those often anonymous, gain respect and regain their memory. I am very worried that there are people who call themselves Poles who claim that it is not worth restoring the historical truth, because in their opinion there are more important things. I want to say from this place with all my power that there are no more important things than our national identity, the memory of the heroes who fought for us and for us. I'll add that I'm not talking about unintelligible scratching wounds, but about the truth, about the foundation. In my opinion, only on strong national foundations can we build a solid country, and appreciation - after all so small - of Polish officers is hope for all those fighting, that truth and good will always prevail. Hello their memory! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u813	Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u814	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 5 December we celebrated the 150th anniversary of the birth of Józef Piłsudski, the head of state, the first marshal of Poland. Józef Piłsudski was born on 5 December 1867 in Zułów near Vilnius. He came from a wealthy land family, where Polish traditions and patriotic spirit were nurtured. After graduating from Vilnius Junior High School in 1885, he went to medical school at the University of Kharkov. However, for participating in student riots after a year of education, he was expelled from the university. In connection with its political activities on 22 March 1887. Piłsudski was arrested on suspicion of a conspiracy to overthrow Czar Aleksandr II and sent to Siberia for 5 years. In the period immediately prior to Poland's regaining independence, Józef Piłsudski's activity was intensified. In 1912 Piłsudski became Chief of Staff of the Rifle Association. Then, having submitted to Austria, he officially created the Polish Legions and personally commanded them by the First Brigade. He created a conspiracy Polish Military Organization. When in 1917 the legions refused to take an oath of allegiance to Austria and Germany, Piłsudski was arrested and imprisoned in Magdeburg, where he stayed until November 1918. After the defeat of Germany, Piłsudski, who was released from prison, went to Warsaw, where he received the chief command of Polish troops and the mission to create a state of liberated national government. On 22 November 1918, he was officially appointed interim head of state. This function was held until 9 December 1922, when the first President of the Republic of Poland, Gabriel Narutowicz, was elected. Between 1919 and 1921 he fought against Bolsheviks in the East with a peace in Riga, under which Poland regained East Galicia. It was during this campaign that in March 1920 the army offered Piłsudski the bronze of the first Marshal of Poland. In connection with the political crisis in the state on 12 May 1926, he led the faithful troops of the marshals to enter Warsaw and, after three days of fighting, forced both the government and the office of President Stanisław Wojciechowski to resign. However, he did not accept the nomination for office. The authority of the marshal and public support allowed Piłsudski to exercise strong power. Józef Piłsudski died on 12 May 1935. The body was buried in the crypt of St. Leonarda in Wawel Cathedral, and the heart, in accordance with his will, was placed in a silver urn and transported to Vilnius, where it rested in his mother's grave at the Rossi cemetery. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u815	Thank you. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u816	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the dual quality of food products. A few years ago, the head of one of Tesco's British troops, Mr.Matt Simister, in an interview with the BBC, said that to Central and Eastern Europe, among others. to Poland, they find products of worse quality than those which are in the Islands. This interview did not trigger any MRI and wider discussion in Poland. In 2016, when we took part in the delegation of the Commission for European Affairs to the Visegrad Group, which took place in Bratislava, we acknowledged that we are dealing with the issue of double quality food products in Western European countries and our region. The government, chaired by Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the Visegrad Group, referred to the report that we prepared during the meeting of these committees, stating that the Polish government supports all actions aimed at eliminating unfair market practices and protecting consumers' interests. I believe that the Polish government should continue to do so, but also consider stopping imports of food products of a quality worse than their counterparts sold in the same packaging in the countries of the western part of Europe. In addition to the fact that we are dealing with a problem of double quality of food products, in addition many of these products are more expensive in Poland than e.g. in Germany. The price difference between the Polish and German Lidl became a reason for asking the European Commission. In a recent study of Take Task, which compared a basket of 86 products of own brands available in both Polish and German Lidl stores, it turned out that the Polish basket is 60 zł more expensive than German. Up to 70% selected articles for comparison proved to be more expensive, and only 29% - cheaper. These arguments clearly did not convince Mr Kosma Złotowski, a MEP from Bydgoszcz, who addressed to the European Commission an interpellation on price differences between the various companies of the Schwartz group. It is worth mentioning that this group includes networks such as Lidl and Kaufland. On behalf of Polish consumers, I would like to thank you very much for this initiative. Among products of the same composition and with the same bar code EAN up to 70% was more expensive in Polish Lidl stores than in stores of the same network located in Germany. All products examined were on average 10% more expensive in Lidl stores in Poland, which is difficult to explain given higher labour costs or other operating costs in Germany. Therefore, from this point of view I appeal, especially before Christmas: Ladies and gentlemen, let's buy with the sign "made in Poland" let's buy with Polish farmers and Polish producers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u817	Thank you. Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u818	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to tell you a few words about the event of the last weekend, December 8, 10th, when I was given the opportunity to participate in the 40th session. Congress of the Polish Scouts Association. I say this without uniform, as I am a member of the Association of Scouts of the Republic. I will talk about a friendly organization - the Polish Scouts Association. In view of the above, allow a few words of reflection about the convention, about what happened there. First thing. For those of you who do not know what the condition of the Polish Scouting Association is today, it is worth to say that it is the largest youth organization in Poland at all, as well as the scouting organization - it is 60,000. Boy Scouts, Boy Scouts, athletics, instructors, instructors. During the meeting on 8 and 10 December, the elections of the new authorities were held, to which she entered as the head of the Polish Scouts Association, the bridesmaid of scout Anne Nowosad. The new Chairman of the General Council of the Polish Scouting Association Dariusz Supeł, together with the bridesmaid of Anne and the team of the Chief Executive and the General Council, will be head of the Scouting Board, the ZHP, the largest organization in Poland by 2021. During this reunion, ladies and gentlemen, the strategy for the development of the Polish Scouts Association was also adopted until 2025, a very important document for the development of the organization, in which it is a document. there is a record of the ZHP mission for the coming years and visions of ZHP until 2025. Let me quote: The mission of the Polish Scouts Association is to raise a young man, i.e. to support him in the comprehensive development and shaping of character by challenging him. On the other hand, the vision of the Polish Scouts Association until 2025 is related to the treatment of the Polish Scouts Association as a community acting on the basis of clearly defined values, which translate into attitudes visible in the daily operation and treatment of the other person. This quality of operation is to be above all high, and the overarching goal is to carry out the mission of the Polish Scouts Association. At the same time, 15 resolutions were adopted at the time, but I would like to say two that seem particularly valuable to me. This is a resolution on the 60th anniversary of the Untouched Road Teams. Of course, many of you who listen are associated with the situation of working with children and young people in particularly difficult conditions. Therefore, this remarkable achievement of the teams of the Untouched Route, which is part of the over 100-year history of the Polish Scouting Association, is as glorious as possible. At the same time during the 40th. The Congress of the Polish Scouts Association adopted a resolution on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence and proposed a number of events, events hosted by Scouts of the Polish Scouts Association. They invite the entire scouting family, the Association of Scouts of the Republic - my organization will have its reunion in April next year - but also the Scouts of Europe and the Association of Brothers' Teams. I'm enjoying the circumstances of 40. Congress of the Polish Scouts Association. The bridesmaids and bridesmaids, bridesmaid of chief, fellow chairman, I wish you all the best in the next four years, also that our brotherhood, the brotherhood of all scout and scout organizations in the Republic of Poland, resulted in the 100th anniversary of regaining independence with wonderful events and a wonderful, common scouting fire. Watch out! [[Applause]] [[Watch out!]] [[Watch out!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u819	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u820	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I receive signals from voters from the area who strongly support the initiative of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki and the Ministry of Home Affairs, which will be highlighted in the exposé, on the restoration of police stations in smaller towns. The voters are convinced that the restoration of posts will not only strengthen the sense of security in local environments, but also the security will be palpable, measurable also in statistics. As a member of the Parliamentary Group on I will also work hard with the police on this issue. The safety of Poles is one of the priorities of the government of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki and the initiative to restore posts in small towns is closely linked to this. We need to be safe, to keep our safety safe, to work peacefully for the good of our homeland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-14-sejm-54-3.u821	Thank you, too. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 15 December 2017, by 3 p.m. 10. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 51]]
