ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u1	I open the 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. I would like to warmly welcome the President of the Senate of the Czech Republic, Mr Milan Štěch, very warmly welcome... [[applause]] ...with his accompanying delegation, with the senators, as well as the Czech ambassador to the Republic of Poland, Mr Jakub Karfík. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] Mr President and his delegation are in Poland with an official visit to my invitation. Once again, very cordially welcome, gentlemen. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its thirty-fifth meeting on 9 February 2017, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the thirty-second meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-third Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the fourth point of the draft agenda be considered, although the report of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Road Goods Monitoring System was provided at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's no objection. I therefore conclude that the House has accepted this proposal. Dear Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the National Centre Act Support for Agriculture . and consider this item as the fifth agenda; Act... Provisions introducing the Act on the National Centre Support for Agriculture and consider this item as item 6 of the agenda; Act amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering and consider it as point seven of the agenda; the Law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of sickness and maternity and consider it as item 8 of the agenda; Tax Information Exchange Act with other countries and consider this item as item 9 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's no objection. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. In addition, I propose a joint review of the point: the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre, and the Law on the Law on the National Agricultural Support Centre. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 30th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. High Izbo, I inform you that for the consideration of item 3 of the agenda, i.e. The law on amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds, we will proceed today after 3 p.m. Tomorrow, at nine o'clock. 00.13. 00, we will consider a point: information for the Senate and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July (Slovakia Presidency of the Council of the European Union). Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators It's an important piece of information. I would also like to inform you that when the Sejm adopts the Act on the amendment of the Act [[But when?]] [[Thursday, Mr. Senator.]] We'll proceed with the review of the point... [[Well, it's not like that.]] Mr. Senator, we discussed this at the Senior Convention. The club's bosses know that, they're supposed to talk to you, let's not discuss it. I'll accept your proposal as valid, but I'm waiting for a decision. Tomorrow morning we'll make the final decision which day it will be. We want it to be as soon as possible, and we're trying to make it as fast as possible. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Patent Advocates. The text of the Act is contained in print No 404 corrected and the report of the committee In print No 404 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the sixty-nineth meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the law on amending the Act on Patent Advocates was considered. Senator print No 404 corrected, seym prints No 1138 and 1208. The amendment abolishes minimum rates in contractual relations between the patent advocate and the ordering party. The Act was discussed by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz. An employee of the Legislative Office, Mr Jakub Zabielski, presented his opinion on the bill with observations and proposed amendments accordingly. These were mainly legislative amendments. Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz welcomed most of the proposed changes. The bill was discussed. The discussion was attended by both senators and representatives of the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland, the Association of Patent Ombudsmen and the Polish Chamber of Patent Ombudsmen. The Senators Mieczysław Augustyn and Andrzej Stanisławek submitted amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau, which were accepted by the government. The Commission proposes that 5 amendments be made to Senator Print No 404 A. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Jadwiga Emilevich. And the President of the Patent Office, Mrs. Alicia Adamczak. Do any of you wish to speak on the bill? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you, ladies and gentlemen, senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Then I'll open the discussion. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that Senator Maciej Łuczak has submitted his statement to the minutes. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war period. The text of the act is contained in print No 406 and the report of the committee In print No 406 A. The rapporteur of the National Defence Committee, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki... I don't see your senator. Are you Senator Rusiecki? [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] But it will be, Mr. Senator. We're waiting. [[Voice from the room: He's on his way.]] He's coming. I would like to ask Senator Jarosław Rusiecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u4	I'm so sorry, Mr. Marshal. [[There you go.]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Great Dear Guests! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Senate Committee on National Defence, a report on the work on the Act amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the government of the Republic of Poland that introduced the bill. The Act grants members of the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland the right to receive and wear uniforms along with signs of military degrees. The Act also sets out the procedure for issuing uniforms and includes a delegation to the Minister of National Defence to determine the elements of clothing, its design, as well as the circumstances and manner in which this uniform is to be worn. The Sejm adopted this law at its thirty-fourth meeting. The National Defence Committee met on 31 January. Mr Wojciech Fałkowski and his colleagues took part in the committee's deliberations at this point in time in our House. The project was discussed on the committee. We also listened to the opinions of the Legislative Bureau, which made some comments, but after discussing them and after explanations from the Ministry of National Defence on behalf of the committee, I submitted a proposal to adopt the bill without amendment. The bill received unanimous support, which is why we are debating it today. I am very happy about this and hopefully we will be able to pass this bill before 1 March, before the day of the national holiday of the Cursed Soldiers. This bill is expected by the veteran corps environment. I am thinking here especially of those soldiers who, after 1944, did not lay down their weapons and continued to fight the communist invader. At this point, I would like to thank the Minister for National Defence, the Minister present here, Prof. Wojciech Fałkowski, as well as the Minister, the Head of the Office for Combatants and the Repressed for this initiative. It is very well received by the veterans and people who fought for independence of the Republic. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Once again, I welcome you very warmly to Minister Wojciech Fałkowski. Minister, do you wish to speak? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of the senator, Professor Jan Zarin. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, would like to begin by thanking the Ministry of National Defence and submitting them to the hands of Professor Wojciech Fałkowski. It is not only for the fact that the contested law on the amendment of the law on combatants is being processed today, but also for the sake of this word today. Because we're here today, I'd say, in such a good climate. On the one hand, we concluded the celebration of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the National Army which lasted until 19 February this year. Undoubtedly, the widely understood Akovsian environments were very mobilized and eager to participate in this nationwide holiday. On the other hand, we are before 1 March, i.e. before the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers. As one of the organizers of the celebrations within the social committee of this day, I can inform you that practically from today, from tomorrow these celebrations related to 1 March start on the scale of the whole of Poland, because also in the smallest regions, in small and larger towns. Therefore, thank you very much that in the climate of this time, i.e. the time to commemorate the fate of the heroes of Poland during the Second World War and wartime, we can process this law. I don't think it's controversial at all. We are all Poles, Polish patriots and we are fully aware that we should honor And we want to do it. Veterans, in this case by granting the right to wear a special uniform, who fought so that today we could speak freely in independent Poland, in the Seym and in the Senate. I would also like to stress that in this way today's Republic refers, of course, to the heritage of the Second Republic, which is the Second Republic, even though it has lasted in peace for less than 20 years, without a doubt it has done a great deal to honor all those who have fought for its independence not only since 1914, but also, as you know, veterans of the January Uprising. It is also a very good law from this point of view, referring to this independent trend of our history. I am very glad that we are in this trend, not in any other way. I hope that this law, like many laws that emphasize our ability to be sovereign, is a law that connects all Poles, and if it excludes someone, it is good that it is excluded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Robert Mammoth and Senator Maciej Łuczak made speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a recess until 11:45 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 20 to 11 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u8	High Izbo, resume. Please take your seats. Mr and Mrs Senators, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the earlier announcement for the consideration of the third point: the law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of public-funded health care, we will proceed today after 4:00 p.m., as the Marshal announced, opening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I request the deletion from the agenda of item four: the law on the system for monitoring the carriage of goods by road. This point will be considered at the next Senate meeting. If I don't hear any objection, I'll find the High House has accepted the motion. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I don't hear any objections. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a two-hour adjournment will be ordered at 2 pm today. We proceed with the joint examination of the items on the fourth and fifth agenda: the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre; the Law on the Law on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The texts of the laws are contained in prints Nos 418 and 419... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, please remain silent. I think I'm talking out loud, but you can't hear me if there's such a fuss. The texts of the laws are contained in prints Nos 418 and 419 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 418 A and 419 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to present the Commission's reports on the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre and on the Law on the Law implementing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the committee a report on 2 laws. You can say that I report together... Yes, Mrs. Marshal, including? This is a report on the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre, as well as the Law on the Law on the National Agricultural Support Centre. After a rather long discussion at the committee meeting and hearing the comments submitted by the Legislative Bureau, the committee decided to adopt the law without amendments. Quite generously, we discussed in detail the introduction of these 2 laws. They aim to combine the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency into a single centre, the National Agricultural Support Centre. Part of the tasks directly carried out within the framework of the European Union's policy, i.e. the support of the European Union, will go to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation. This will make it one agency, one national support centre. The National Agricultural Support Centre will deal mainly with the national tasks listed in the Act, and I will not discuss them in detail. It is mainly about these 2 previous tasks carried out by the Agricultural Property Agency, i.e. the rotation of the land, as well as the second task: markets, support, all those existing instruments that were not related As I said earlier, with direct EU tasks to be delegated to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, as well as requiring the Minister of Finance to take appropriate action, to obtain accreditation as commissioned opinions concerning the tasks of the European Union. That's all I can say in general. As far as the details are concerned, if necessary, Minister Babalski will probably want to tell you in detail. I think I said it in general. If there's any questions, then... Thank you. So that I ask on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for the adoption of a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u10	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Wiesław Kilian. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u11	Yes, Senator rapporteur, I have a question. Agricultural Market Agency and Agricultural Property Agency are being liquidated. And my question is: how will employment contracts be terminated with the workers currently employed? And second question: how will new employment relations be established at the newly established National Agricultural Support Centre? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u12	You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u13	I think everything is described in detail in the law as well as in the introductory provisions. So that, of course, agencies expire, labour relations expire, the Minister of Agriculture will prepare the operating statute, appoint a proxy, this proxy will start to function, will be determined after the adoption of the statute, how many people must be employed. At this point, the new entity that will be set up will have the opportunity to make a decision and tell the workers who will be needed. And those he needs will be informed that they will be employed. The rest of the employment relationship expires, according to the Act, they will no longer be employees of either agency or agency.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u14	But if you have an employment contract, according to the Labour Code, the employment contract of each employee is terminated. Depending on your internship, this period is either one month or three months. In that case, how will this agreement be terminated?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u15	I think that the law clearly states that the employment relationship expires and no longer has an employment relationship, so there is no reason to discuss whether it is or is. And please ask the Minister for Technical Solutions in detail. He is the representative of the government in this matter, and at the same time will appoint a person who will coordinate all the work by 1 September, because these laws will enter into force on 1 September.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u16	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The draft laws were submitted by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Zbigniew Babalski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the Minister like to speak on the legislation under consideration? No. Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to a government representative related to the items on the agenda. Are any of your senators... Senator Wiesław Kilian wishes to ask a question... Minister, I would like to invite you very cordially. ...and Senator Arthur Warzocha, so I invite you to the stand, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Wiesław Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u17	The question is more or less the same as I asked the Senator rapporteur. My question is: why didn't the article apply? 231 Labour Code for the liquidation of one institution and the creation of a new institution? Because in art. 231 of the Labour Code is said that the new institution, which is created on the basis of the old, should take over workers on the same terms as they worked at the Agricultural Market Agency or the Agricultural Property Agency. And the employee can answer the employer within 7 days whether or not he accepts a new working condition. Why doesn't Article apply? 231 Labour Code?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u18	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the event of the abolition of the institutions, the provisions on employment relationships shall be laid down in Article. 51 of the Act. Provisions introducing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The situation will look as follows. As soon as the laws appear in the Official Journal of the Laws, the time limits begin to run. Within 3 days of the publication of the Act in the Official Journal of the Law, a proxy shall be appointed to take over the entire task of setting up the National Agricultural Support Centre. Within 7 days of the publication of the Act in the Official Journal of the Laws, the presidents of the Agricultural Property Agency and the President of the Agricultural Market Agency are required to forward to the proxy a list of employees with a description of the activities performed by those employees. Until May 31st, until May 31st, I stress this term... Any employee who gets a job offer will be 3 months old, June, July and August, to answer whether he accepts the terms or does not accept the terms. This solution is in line with the Labour Code. I would like to point out that this is an emergency because the institutions that are currently functioning are being abolished. Those who do not accept the proposal will express their will to present it to the proxy. Those who accept the proposal will also have to express their will in writing, declare that the working conditions and wages have been accepted by them. That's it, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Arthur Warzocha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u21	Thank you very much. Minister, my question concerns the location of the regional units of the National Agricultural Support Centre. Since a precedent has been created in the law in the case of West Pomeranian voivodship, I would like to ask whether, therefore, the Act in its present form closes the possibility of applying a similar precedent in the case of other voivodships, or whether it should be expected to be maintained... will be referred to the literal record that we are dealing with in the law. In other words, is it possible to break up or create regional units of the National Agricultural Support Centre? I ask this question because I look at problems that may arise in the area discussed here, from the perspective of the Silesian voivodship. There must be a minister who is familiar with the situation of the voivodship that I represent. The agricultural area is the Częstochowa subregion, which consists of 5 powiats, including the city on the rights of Częstochowa district, where more than 50% of the population is concentrated. agricultural production. I'm not gonna break it down into categories anymore. The largest number of plots of the State Treasury is also located in this area, i.e. more than 14 thousand plots. So these are, uh, just finishing up the question. These are therefore data which make it necessary to treat the Częstochowa region and its location, in the wake of the... I would like to remind you that there are located a voivodship farm advisory center, the head office of KRUS, as well as a branch of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, here of course I am referring to the voivodship branch. It is therefore in the interest of Polish agriculture that it is located in this region, in the Częstochowa region, a regional branch of the National Agricultural Support Centre. So is there such a... Do you see this possibility? And on what basis will the branch be established today? Where will it be located according to the Ministry's concept? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u22	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u23	The seats or organisational units shall be governed by Article. 5th Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre, which explicitly states that the following organisational units are located in the National Centre: the Office of the National Centre, hereinafter referred to as the Centre; the field branches of the National Centre operating in each voivodeship I emphasize this phrase: in every voivodship Except that in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship there are two off-road units. First, I will explain why this decision was taken. Two regions in Poland, i.e. The West Pomerania region and the Warmia-Mazury region took over the largest area of land on national farms. These are still huge areas for development. At the moment, we have the most land to develop in these two voivodships. That is why it was decided to create a second field office in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. As you have noted, Senator, the bill does not determine the location, but indicates what units will work. The locations where the field troops will be located will be indicated in the statutes. The Statute shall be assigned by the Minister responsible for Agriculture and Rural Development. I want to assure the High House that our goals, which we want to achieve, are going to ensure that the institutions that serve the Polish countryside and farmers are as close as possible. It cannot be done in any major city or in the former voivodship centers, because it involves a lot of costs, but I assure you that where necessary, they will be able to be created And it's written in the law of a branch of off-road centers that will function. Bottom line, there's no strong indication yet, a strict indication of which city the resort will be in. The statute you have is now a supporting document. It will certainly still have to change, because during the process in the Sejm there were several amendments tabled, which were adopted by the High House and will also have an impact on the fact that this statute will have to be amended, and this is the responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. [[Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u24	Senator wants to ask, right? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u25	Thank you very much. But the statute indicates the location of this center in Katowice, right? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Right now yes.]] In that case, when you are already working with substance on the final shape of this statute, which will enter into force and be a document in force and on the basis of which these branches will be built, will you use this whole pragmatism, or will these arguments which I have quoted matter? I can use such an example. Nobody in Czestochowa I will remind you that I am speaking as a resident of Częstochowa at the moment, but also a citizen of Silesian Voivodeship would never come up with such a Karkomny idea that, for example. The headquarters of the Main Mining Office are located in Kłomnice, in Kłobuck or, let's say, in Częstochowa. Similarly, there would be no justification for the headquarters of the Main Mining Institute to try to locate in Myszkowie, Zawiercie or any other city in Silesia. Therefore, the strength of these substantive arguments, in my opinion, justifies the fact that the seat of the regional branch of the National Agricultural Support Centre should be somewhere in the Częstochowa region. So I will return to this question: will you take these arguments seriously? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u26	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u27	Mr. Senator, these arguments will be taken into account. The arguments concerning the facilities currently owned by the Agricultural Property Agency will also be taken into account. These facilities should be used first, so that they simply do not bear any additional costs, because rental costs are a really important factor when it comes to burdening the institution. So that certainly at the stage, let's say, establishing a statute this discussion will continue in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u28	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Marian the Obstetrician. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have such a question for you. Mr Jurgel, speaking of this document, about the agricultural pact, announced that a rural development agency would be set up to deal with this issue, which is now being dealt with by the Agricultural Property Agency, the Agricultural Market Agency, and of course other tasks. My first question is why? What was the basis for changing this way of thinking that today we have a National Agricultural Support Centre and the law also contains provisions for rural areas? That's the first question. Two. In view of the fact that this law also assumes other tasks than those of these two agencies, will it be a new source of funding for these tasks? What kind of source would that be? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u30	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, it's not actually in the name of whether it's an agency or a resort. We've come to the conclusion... Indeed, the original assumptions were that the Rural Development Agency would be set up. Let me remind you, this was August last year, because in August last year we started the process on this bill and directed it to social arrangements. Then, among other things. the agricultural authorities, the agricultural chambers suggested that it should not be so that 2 agencies would merge and 1 agency would be created. There were comments to extend the scope of the tasks that this institution should carry out, not only for farmers but also for whole rural areas. Hence the idea of creating a National Agricultural Support Centre, widely understood. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9 laws, as you have probably read, are described the tasks that the National Agricultural Support Centre will carry out. These are tasks that go from the Agricultural Property Agency and from the Agricultural Market Agency, although those which pass from the Agricultural Market Agency are in a way limited, you said this to the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee, Senator Chróścikowski. There they will only pass on development, promotional tasks and payments will be transferred to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. As far as these tasks are concerned, this is not a closed directory. Mr. Senator, High Izbo, the directory that's listed in the bill, it's an open directory. At the request of the Council of Ministers, while ensuring adequate funding, the National Agricultural Support Centre will also be able to perform other activities, other tasks. That's the policy we've taken, that's the direction. We are convinced that this institution will not only reduce operating costs, but above all bring action closer to the farmer. Let me give you a simple example of what this change can do. Delegated tasks to be carried out at the National Agricultural Support Centre... Maybe it's different. The payment tasks carried out by the Agricultural Market Agency at the moment will be transferred to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. Today there are 16 field departments of the Agricultural Market Agency. Every farmer who carried out some payment tasks at the Agricultural Market Agency had to go to the voivodship. From 1 September, these tasks will be transferred to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which has 316 offices in Poland. So this road will definitely shorten, because these people will go to the county and not to the voivodship to carry out payment tasks. Similarly, the situation in the future, I repeat, will be in the future in the case of the National Agricultural Support Centre. These branches, which will be in voivodship cities or in voivodships, at the moment I do not decide where... These tasks will come to light in the future. I'm not setting a deadline. Voivodship agricultural advisory centers. In each county we have a localized farm advisory department, so we're going to zoom in on these institutions again. From the voivodship directly to the county To farmers and rural areas. That was the intention. And we are convinced that we will achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Wiesław Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u33	One more question, Minister. Please tell us what the substantive conditions for the liquidation of the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency are. And what will be the financial impact of the creation of the new institution? In this law, we do not say anything about the costs that will be associated with the establishment of the National Agricultural Support Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u34	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u35	Dear Senator, yes, we are. The document that explains the whole financial sphere is an impact assessment of the regulation. It is an annex to the National Support Centre Act. One document concerns 2 laws. If you could possibly have a polite look at this document, you will see that the savings are shown on page 5. 'Cause what's the motivation for even eliminating it? Agricultural Market Agency with some tasks, so to speak, goes down naturally. These tasks are shrinking, some programs have been extinguished, which were still in operation 15 years ago. By force, if tasks are extinguished... Well, less tasks means less responsibilities to perform. Within 11 years, the savings resulting from the abolition of both agencies and the creation of the National Agricultural Support Centre will amount to about PLN 1 billion. So the time perspective is 11 years. I repeat, this is described in detail in the impact assessment of the regulation. It's also mentioned what we're going to gain from. The merger of these agencies abolishes the dual functioning of the various institutions that these agencies serve today. I can give you a simple example. The number of management posts in the country will be drastically reduced, which will benefit from these savings without prejudice to the exercise of service obligations vis-à-vis rural areas. So I encourage you to read this document. This is described in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm not getting into material matters, I'm just gonna say that I have one concern and one question. Will you just make it? Because on the one hand, these entities They will have to carry out the tasks they are currently doing and also pay money, which is very important. On the other hand, there is a change of everything, actually, from the staff, the structure, and sometimes the headquarters, the place, which is, to put it directly, the building, to the software. The question is, isn't it too short a vacathio legis, or shouldn't this process be extended? I'm talking about the ending, I mean... Maybe not the date of September 1, 2017, but later, so you can get off your nerves?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u38	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u39	Thank you so much for that question. You got the point. We had those fears, too, Senator. The first date of entry into force of these laws was planned for 1 July 2017, but because there were various kinds of problems, another decision was made in the Sejm. Members tabled an amendment to extend this period until 1 September. I've called in the meantime... In other words, Minister Jurgiel has set up a team to implement these laws. In turn I have set up components so that I have 5 such components for staffing, financial, IT, organizational... People are from individual institutions which are covered by the scope of these laws. And there's a lot of work going on. I was supposed to have another meeting tonight at 12:00, but it was postponed. These teams report every week, at what stage they are in the process of preparing for the non-collision operation of this law on 1 September. For today I can say this: a little more difficult matters concern information systems, and the other issues, i.e. personnel, financial, organizational... Well, as for the location, let's say, some disputes. It's going to be about where it's going to be located. However, the remaining cases at present do not raise any objections as to timeliness. I am also after talking to the Ministry of Finance, because the accreditation will be carried out by the Minister of Finance, specifically Minister Majszczyk, and she said that there is a lot of time. The Ministry of Finance will not commission outside the merger of these information systems, accreditation will be performed by its own forces at the Ministry of Finance, which gives us a sense of security, because then we avoid the period, let's say, of tender, by which we would simply prolong it. But for today, I repeat, there is no risk that by September 1st we will not be able to implement the National Agricultural Support Centre for action.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u40	Thank you very much. The question is asked by President Jerzy Chróścikowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u41	Minister, I get a lot of questions about these issues in the field and it is difficult for me to answer them, so I would like you to answer that here. They're at the Agricultural Property Agency so-called. long-distance centres that carry out field tasks. They've been rejected a lot, I think I've got five in the voivodship. Do they, according to what you have announced, mean that they will be taken into account and will act so that the farmer can have it closer? 'Cause in the field, they're all small pieces... And the point is that a farmer doesn't go to Lublin, he doesn't go in the field. Let's say that where the former centers were, that is, under Tomaszów, near Zamość, somewhere near Parczew or under other towns... So that, as has been the case so far, farmers from these properties don't drive around with the stuff they've been doing there... Will it be maintained? Will it be, as you said, considered? Because I have a lot of questions about this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u42	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u43	Yeah, it's gonna be maintained. The reorganisation in these centers of the Agricultural Property Agency took place a few years ago, some of these local units were liquidated, but where there is most land in the stock, these units remained and we do not intend to eliminate them. Like I said, we want these units to function as close as possible to the rural area.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u44	Thank you very much. You're Senator Marian the Sheriff. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u45	Thank you. Minister, now more detailed questions about the competence of the National Agricultural Support Centre. You've already mentioned counseling, that some part of the counseling is to be carried out by a national center. But what will be the support of this national renewable energy centre? What will urban planning support involve? What kind of administrative structures will be created under this new law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u46	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u47	As far as urban planning and planning tasks are concerned, they will not be carried out as tasks to be carried out immediately from 1 September. We put this into the future when it comes to the organisation of rural areas, because it has to play with the law which is currently being developed in the Ministry of Infrastructure, i.e. from the so-called. the urban code. So that some of the tasks, for example, that you have noticed and that I'm talking about right now, are written in the future. As far as renewable energy is concerned, we simply want to approach this in a slightly more decisive way. We are thinking, above all, of biogas plants, and we want the National Agricultural Support Centre to be the initiator of creation, for example. I give an example of a cooperative in rural areas. This cooperative would consist primarily of residents, producers of electricity or gas, or heat from biogas plants, which is most often a farmer who owns, say, large breeding facilities for cattle, and maybe a rural lounge would be part of it, and thus a local government would also be part of this cooperative. This is what we have described and with such proposals we will come out through a national support centre. What's the benefit? Of course, the benefit is multiple. We have problems with waste, for example. The flock, these are serious problems when these are large-scale objects, and here we have a dump in the biogas plant. There are local farmers who produce plants, such as maize for silage, and from this production they get sacked, are in a cooperative and have a sack in a biogas plant. What are their benefits? The Renewable Energy Act, which was examined last year, allows the establishment of such an institution and also allows the use of this type of heat, electricity or gas. And this is how we want to meet the problem of what is very neglected in the Polish countryside today. E.g. energy infrastructure, since I am talking about renewable energy sources, is neglected. The farmer is the last link to which this current flows. Most often during the interruptions in deliveries, the Polish village is cut off from the supply of electricity, and only later is cut off what is in large agglomerations. We've got the whole plan. I speak in advance, Mr. Senator. By 2019, in order to try to help people in rural areas and to revive non-agricultural activities, i.e. economic activities. That's what the resources are for. I'm a little out of this bill, but this question is very fundamental, and I'm responsible for these renewable energy sources, within the Department of Earth Management, so I know a little bit about it. With such proposals we will come out and therefore this task is included here. Then we'll be ceding to the National Agricultural Support Center.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Zdzisław Pupa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u49	Minister, I have a question I already asked at the committee meeting, but I would like us to go back to that for a moment. Namely, it's about the employee case. We know that the National Agricultural Support Centre will have to reduce employment somehow. I know it's gonna affect some of the employees who work in today's agencies. And now my request. If the Minister could get a closer look at what's going to happen, what's going to happen to people who, for example, They will reach retirement age in October, November, and they will not be offered to extend their job so as to calm the atmosphere... Is there any way that the Minister could assure these people that there might be nothing wrong with you coming over here, for example? with a sense, with caution in this matter, also understanding the personal situation of people who are currently working in the agency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u50	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u51	Yes, it's a very sensitive subject, Senator. But I want to be clear and clear: these activities will be carried out by a proxy based on data that will flow from individual agencies and also from the field. I am aware that such concerns can indeed be. But I want to assure you that such situations concerning, say, people who are short-lived until they retire... It is about some random cases, as well as cases mentioned at the committee meeting, e.g. ladies in the blessed state. Such persons will be treated in a special way, and their situations will be considered absolutely individually. I can't imagine anyone coming and not knowing people, not knowing the situation they might have, making those decisions on a one-man basis. So I'm sure the attorney will lean on these personnel matters with due care. [[Thank you very much.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u52	Thank you very much. The question you ask is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u53	Minister, I've even got two questions. Firstly, in those centres where the various branches of the Agricultural Property Agency or the Agricultural Market Agency operate today, there is concern about where the branches of this new structure of the National Agricultural Support Centre will be located. They are usually located in former voivodship centers, but not only. As a result, some local authorities are concerned and even simply say: this will be a cause for the degradation of our center, because since we only have one branch, not all that will be collected... Well, he'll probably be taken away from them. So this is the first case. Do you have any insight into this? Has a map been drawn showing where these branches will be located? Secondly, some of these agencies carry out tasks arising from the distribution of EU programmes. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Yes.]] Are you sure that during this restructuring there will not be any, so to speak, turbulence, trouble? Because it's all done in a hurry, it's all in the middle of... The decision will be transferred first to the proxy, then to the new management authorities of the branches. Has this been thought through? Would the Minister like to inform us about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u54	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u55	To answer the first question, Senator, I would like to say that we will even improve this structure. Well, let me give you an example. Today we have 11 field branches of the Agricultural Property Agency and subsidiaries. The National Agricultural Support Centre in each voivodship will have a field branch, so the rank of these units will be raised. I repeat: today, branches are in 11 voivodships, and individual branches... Soon there will be 16 branches of the National Agricultural Support Centre operating as field institutions plus what Senator Chróścikowski asked about. The resource support units will also remain, so I am reassured that there will definitely be no degradation. [[What about downstairs, Minister?]] I repeat, the future will show. It could happen that in a little while, in a year, in two years, in three years... We will see how these functions will be implemented, which we impose on the national support centre. I would remind you that, according to the plans, an agricultural advisory centre is to come to this, which is also based in the counties. It will become an integral part of the national center, so again we will simply be closer to the village and the Polish farmer. I think I answered the first question exhaustively. As far as the EU programmes are concerned, of course you are absolutely right. Well, there's no danger here, but the biggest concern is whether it will launch on September 1st. I repeat: I have a strong IT team composed of representatives of the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, as well as employees of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural Market Agency. They're working on an IT system that should launch... not even September 1st, because it's supposed to be ready. That's what we're assuming. July 1st, or mid-July. Because it can't be like we're gonna wait for him to fire on September 1st. It's gotta be ready a lot sooner. We plan to have these systems checked two months earlier, how they will function. Nevertheless, I must answer this question clearly: these EU programmes, Senator... This is one of the objectives of creating a national centre: that EU programmes, where there is money, should be, so to speak, with one representative, in one entity. So that they will all be in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which in its structures will be increased by 322 jobs. That's how many jobs they're gonna get. So that we also secure jobs. Of course, handing over equipment, assets... Well, there shouldn't be any complications with that. So I want to calm down: there shouldn't be any trouble. One gentleman, when it comes to money... And it should work better. I repeat, 316 county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will be in direct contact with the farmer and the Polish village. We don't have any objections. on technical matters. I repeat, sir, because the senator asked me that, too. And I repeat, that cause problems or cause anxiety. may only be an IT system. But we can do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u56	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u57	Minister, when it comes to this other matter, I do believe that I would like to believe that all this will be done smoothly. The only concern is indeed these information systems. But as for this first case, I admit that to a small extent the Minister reassured me, and to a greater extent he worried me. Those who are in large centers may be calm, because there will be 16 branches. But I asked what was going on below, at the level of the former voivodships, where there are usually subsidiaries or branches of the agency. And I'd like to know what's going to happen there. Is what you're talking about here a signal for them to be destroyed there? How's this gonna go? Because, Minister, this is also a matter of reaching... I mean, what the Minister said: it's about making it easier for the client. Well, if these troops have gone away, I guess it'll be counterproductive. Now, do you have, so to speak, a map drawn, that here, yes, there will be a branch, but there, there and there will be a file? So that you can go to people and say, there's no reason to worry, it'll still be close, there'll still be structures here. That's what I'd like to hear, Minister. How's that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u58	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u59	Mr. Senator, I don't know how to calm you down. We are not going to eliminate anything on the way, but, as I said, we are going to be closer to rural areas. But, of course, Mr. Senator, it can happen so that, for example. there will be no more land in a given area. Well, then we're not gonna artificially hold on to an institution that's just there. As long as it is necessary to serve farmers in a given area, on the land that is in stock, the state land, these institutions will function. And I've shown that we're adding... we're raising the rank of some voivodships, because they're gonna get voivodship field troops. And those institutions that are now, will practically function as long as they are needed in the area.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u60	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Marian the Obstetrician. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u61	Thank you very much. I think that's gonna be the last of my questions. The first concerns the flow of funds. Will the amendment of the law also change the flow of funds in any way? Because so far... It is known that the Agricultural Property Agency usually has a large amount of funding it transfers to the State budget. That's a plus minus 2 billion a year. This is a drain of rural resources to the central budget. Will this bill change the way the funds flow? That's one thing. Secondly, will this new law and new competences change the scope of tasks? Will there be any changes in the strategic companies of the Treasury that have been supervised by the Agricultural Property Agency so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u62	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u63	Dear Senator, financial matters are described in the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. It contains a list of revenues and expenses. As a matter of fact, nothing's gonna change. As far as the resource is concerned, the national centre will carry out the same tasks as the Agricultural Property Agency at the moment. So the proceeds from the sale of the property of the national center... It's about own property that's at the Farm Real Estate Agency right now. In the case of revenues from lease contracts or other contracts, we think of leases, interest on free funds transferred into deposit in accordance with financial regulations, etc. You could read the whole list. However, I do not fully agree with the senator because, if I understood correctly, you said that this institution was intended to be used to drain funds to the state budget. Mr. Senator, the drain was. In 8 years from the Polish village, uncontrolled land trade has been drained, as you said. 18 billion zł. Let me give you a simple example of what happened after the introduction of the Law of 14 April 2016 on the suspension of the sale of real estate of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. It hasn't been a year, but we already have the data. In 2016, we sold 18 thousand ha and in 2015, 2014, 2013 was sold over 100,000 ha. We leased, Mr. Senator, 60,000 ha. And this money, which would be used to buy land, was used by Polish farmers as a means of turnover for investments. So I don't quite agree with the issue of drainage, because we've just stopped it a little bit. Companies. It's not just these companies. The Minister responsible for Agriculture and Rural Development took over 21 additional so-called companies from the so-called as from 3 January. the agricultural sector. 41 companies will be transferred to the National Agricultural Support Centre, which are currently supervised by the Agricultural Property Agency, plus 21 companies that were taken over by the Minister of Agriculture after the liquidation of the Treasury Ministry. In far-reaching plans, we'll discuss that too... Perhaps it will be necessary to set up a small office, a small department It's because you just have to supervise the ownership of these companies. In the future, it will take over a whole national support centre or a minister of agriculture. This discussion is still ahead of us. The goal may also be to reduce the number of patients treated with recombinant human Minister Jurgiel has spoken of this many times. So-called. consolidation of agricultural or food companies. It's just that they're just between each other. They didn't compete, they just acted pro-developmentally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you like to ask me another question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Thank you very much, Mrs Marshal. That's it for me, isn't it?]] Yes. Welcome to the box. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Thank you.]] [[The Minister has a bad experience with us.]] I think he's doing the best he can today. [[Well, today it is.]] I'm opening a joint discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I'm closing the joint discussion... [[Voice from the room: There are still amendments.]] Oh, there are adjustments, aren't there? [[Voice from the room: There are amendments...]] Okay, okay. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 3 amendments to the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. These are the amendments of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. The joint discussion is closed. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted to the Law on the National Agricultural Support Centre, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on these laws will be held at the end of the meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. The text of the Act is contained in print No 415 and the Commission's reports In prints No 415 A and 415 B. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mamytkow, to submit a report to the committee. There is no Senator Mammothov, so I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy a proposal for amendments to the Law on Public Use and Volunteering; Senate Printing No 415. The Commission has examined this proposal today. The bill was a government submission. The law was passed at the thirty-fiveth meeting of the Sejm on 10 February this year. Minister Michałkiewicz and his team participated in the committee meeting. He informed the committee that the purpose of the amendment was to improve the procedure for the exchange of information between the minister responsible for social security, who is the director of the Public Benefit Support Fund and the registry courts. The Act also clarifies the rules for reporting by public benefit organisations that have lost that status during the reporting period and rationalises the rules for the creation by the Minister of the list of public benefit organisations entitled to receive 1% income tax on individuals for the tax year. As a result, the new competent registry court will inform the Minister responsible for social security, once the decision on the loss of the status of a public benefit organisation has been enforced, of the dates of service and of the validity of that provision. In the current state of law, the registry court shall inform the Minister responsible for social security as soon as the order has been issued. This amendment will also apply to provisions issued before the entry into force of the Act, of which the competent registry court has not informed the Minister. Under the Law, the revenue of the Public Benefit Fund will also be interest on funds transferred to management under Article. 78d paragraph. 2th Act of 27 August on public finances. According to this provision, the managers of state-owned special-purpose funds transfer free resources to the finance minister for management, with the exception of grants from the budget. The Act extends the catalogue of sources of revenue of the Public Benefit Fund. The amendment provides that the Minister responsible for social security will include in this list the organisation of public benefit which will demonstrate that the failure to place on the website of the office serving the Minister responsible for social security of the approved annual accounts and the annual activity report on the statutory date has occurred without or for reasons independent of the organisation. The legislator also adds a regulation whereby public benefit organisations that have lost their status as a public benefit organisation will be required to publish their reports for the last time for the financial year in which the status has been lost. The Act will enter into force 7 days after the date of the announcement. Such a short period of vacathio legis is justified by the need for new solutions to enter into force, notably concerning the creation by the Minister of the list of organisations entitled to receive 1% personal income tax, as soon as possible. The Legislative Office did not make any more serious comments on this law. Referring to the observations of the National Judicial Council, it proposed merely to consider whether it was appropriate to inform the Minister responsible for social security of the date of service of the order on the loss of the status of a public benefit organisation. This was the subject of discussion and explanations by the Minister participating in the committee meeting. They were linked to the fact that the proposed provision would make bureaucratic activities less bureaucratic, which would facilitate the implementation of procedures. The discussion focused most of the time on the problem of collecting public money for other actors by organisations, which was not included in this amendment. It was agreed that this would require a separate, broader revision. A proposal for adoption of the law was made without amendments, which was adopted by 5 votes in favour and 3 senators abstained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. And I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mammothov, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The senator of the family committee basically presented the merits of the case. I would just like to say that the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions adopted this law at its meeting on 10 February 2017. The Commission proposes that the Senate adopt it without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz should be with us... He's on his way. Yes? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a technical recess until... [[Till 1:00.]] Yes, until 1 p.m., so the Minister can get to us quietly. We will resume the session at 1 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 48 to 13 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u69	I'm reopening the session. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. I would like to warmly welcome Minister Krzysztof Michalkiewicz. Welcome, Minister. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft of this law, which we have the pleasure and honour to present to you, in the Sejm, did not raise any controversy, was almost unanimously adopted by Members. This project was expected by the community of NGOs. It simplifies various types of procedures, explains those places that were unclear and controversial in the Act, and allows those organisations which, for an unblamed reason, were not included in the list of organisations that could apply for a 1% write-off to reconsider their case. As I say, organizations are waiting for this change, so that we will be very grateful if the High House takes a positive look at this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u71	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer a minute's query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I briefly, because we spoke this morning at the committee meeting on this subject and the vast majority of the records do not raise any controversy. I would like to return in my speech to this thread that I was discussing at the committee meeting this morning. I forgot then that I would be wondering if I could make an amendment, but yet my colleague, Senator Augustyn, has mobilized me to do so. Because it is true that if a public benefit organisation loses its status, then the funds collected from 1% will be transferred to the NGO support fund. I know, and you said that so far in this fund there is not much money, because it is 20,000 PLN, but it is not said that in the future there will be no more funds. The question is, if the organisation regains this status, could it not also seek to recover the 1% funds that would be included in this fund? It seems to me that this would be appropriate, also in this dimension, that many organisations collecting funds from 1% But he collects money marked because he collects it into specific subaccounts, for specific people. Therefore, taking over these measures will result in those persons not receiving these measures. Yeah, but it's clear that the reason why they might get the money isn't there. However, it appears that at the time the organisation regains this status, the reimbursement of these funds would be justified. I took the liberty of making an appropriate amendment some time ago, and I hereby submit it. Perhaps she will not receive your approval, but sometimes there are unexpected situations. I hope this is how it's gonna be this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u73	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I, too, briefly and actually have a similar subject. Senator Rooster raised a point in the committee debate that seems important to me. You just mentioned it to Senator Libicki in the context of this amendment, but I think it's even more serious. Different is evaluated Some say it's the right thing to do and others say it's not. That money from 1% goes to subaccounts for treatment, rehabilitation... These are often very difficult cases, severe diseases, disability. No one denies that this results from a particular good, but we agree that it is more a donation than a general support for the activities of non-governmental organisations, because the money that would be for statutory activities is really important. This may require some regulation, but certainly not in such a way that we will prohibit the creation of a subaccount and that we will deprive people, for whom it is often the only way to raise money for some serious operation or to extend rehabilitation, often very expensive and difficult to access. We have talked about this a lot, because we have been discussing how to regulate this issue for years. As long as it is, it is necessary to take into account the fact that at some point it may be that the organization operating these sub-accounts, even because of negligence, due to some slight turbulence, will not perform all the obligations imposed by the law, and as a result may lose the status of the public benefit organisation. It is a good thing that in this act we loosen the requirements a little bit, and in relation to some minor exceedances of time... the Minister mentioned this; this is a very good solution. It's a law that's worth supporting. However, it would be good, Minister, to think just in case, in a safe way. What Senator Libicki has said would partially settle the matter, because if the status is recovered, the money could go back to the interested ones. Okay, but what if there's no chance of getting that status back? What then to do with the funds in the amount, I do not know, of PLN 100,000 collected for surgery in a unique facility in the United States of America of very advanced or difficult surgical cancer? Or do you physically transfer them to a national NGO support fund and divide them into various goals, probably important? After all, this money is not only dedicated, intended for specific stakeholders, but also often won by them, gained in their immediate surroundings, from their employer, from friends, from friends. This is behind the great hope of people who fight bravely for their health, for improving the health of their loved ones. It seems to me, Minister... as a matter of principle, we have already decided that since there is this national fund, it is the one who does not meet the requirements and has collected 1%. I want him to give up what he didn't spend on this fund. But I think there should be an exception to those situations where that money is in some form, so to speak, addressed. Perhaps it will also be a provocation to see what the Minister was talking about at the committee meeting, namely that the issue of subaccounts is not regulated at all... Maybe that's what needs to be settled, because it's okay until an accident like this happens, and you can't rule it out, that's what's gonna happen. And I wouldn't even dare say that half of poverty, if it's a small number of subaccounts, because every case related to health and rehabilitation can't be ignored by anyone. But what would happen if it were for organizations that have 1,000, two thousand of these subaccounts? And there's a couple of them, not even among the leaders. It seems to me that if there is such a heart attack, the national NGO support fund should, in such a case, do so, as I say, the task behind this NGO, that is to make sure that this money goes to the target for which it has been dedicated. I recommend this attention to the Ministry. I am convinced that we have a very difficult decision in general on the continuation of the 1% rules. This issue really requires reflection and perhaps courage, Minister, to reach a resolution. So far, conflicting expectations have not allowed any decision to be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u75	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Libicki. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to comment... I take it you do. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It'll be brief. I think it's worth saying a few things. First of all, I would like to thank the senators for their interest in the design and condition. So let's put it this way. The non-governmental sector. It is certainly important that both Chambers treat the development of non-governmental organisations, public benefit organisations as important also because of the functioning of our country. I think it's very good, it's right, and I'm very happy about it. With regard to two questions and amendments or questions related to the amendment, I would like to remind you that we are entering a discussion which is certainly important, but will be linked to a major amendment. It is very possible that this amendment is needed. The law was passed in 2003, so it has its history, the environment has changed. So maybe we should have a big discussion and a big change. In this amendment, we propose 4 small changes that order the law and the functioning of this law in today's reality. I would like to remind you that, as far as the Public Benefit Organisation Fund is concerned, he is the one who is left for what Mr Libicki and Mr Abramowicz have advocated... [[Senator.]] ...Senator Libicki and Senator Augustyn. The point is that in 2015, both chambers of parliament adopted a revision of the law on public benefit activities and volunteering, creating a Public Benefit Organization Support Fund, so that if an organisation loses its status And you don't lose it for no reason, there must actually be specific reasons for the organization to lose that status. . money which has been transferred by taxpayers within 1% , could be allocated to a fund that will support public benefit organisations. This is the idea that was in 2015 for this money to return to a public benefit organization so that it would not go back to the budget. When it comes to subaccounts, I'll remind you that there's a difference between a 1% write-down. tax and donation. More and more often, with an indication of specific objectives, various types of actions are organised, which consist in providing donations over the Internet or in raising money in some other way. More and more money is being raised for specific actions. They often help those who find themselves in a very difficult situation. Meanwhile, 1% It's not a donation. 1% is the chance offered by the legislator to, in the case of part of our tax, 1% from our tax it was possible to indicate the purpose for which we wanted to allocate these funds. These subaccounts are still the property of an organization that collects this 1%. This organization is committed to making 1% of it , with the money she raised, to finance public benefit activities. He can't transfer them to anything else. Like I said, there's a lot of freedom when it comes to donations, all kinds of actions. But here in the case of tax... Because we're still talking about our tax obligation and that we've introduced a possibility to determine that 1% from this tax we want to transfer to a public service activity, for a particular organisation. However, in today's state of law, there is no way that we can discuss and subaccounts, and that an organization that has lost its status and for two years is not an organization of public benefit may, after some time, ask for the money that it has raised to it. And, of course, the Public Benefit Organization Support Fund is so that when we have a certain amount of money in this fund, we can announce a competition and public benefit organisations will take part in this competition. I hope that the Minister who will announce this competition will take into account the reasons why the money has been made available to the Fund for Supporting the Organization of Public Benefits, will indicate that these objectives will be important objectives in the competition for those organisations that will take part in it, and that with this money, the fund will be supported by the tasks referred to by the senators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u77	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity. The text of the Act is contained in print No 423 and the report of the Commission In print No 423 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 10 February 2017 amending the Act on Social Insurance Money Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity. The Commission, after considering the Act at its meeting on 21 February 2017, requests the adoption of the Act. The Parliamentary draft of this law entered the Sejm on 7 February this year. He did not raise controversy at the stage of the committee's work. The second reading took place on 9 February this year. No amendments were tabled at that time and the vote was immediately taken. The Act was adopted on 10 February 2017. It was voted in favour of 407 Members, against 1 and no one abstained. The Act raises no legislative doubts. At the committee meeting, neither the senators nor any of them reported such doubts. The Act adopted by the Sejm on 10 February covers the right to sickness and maternity allowance of Customs officials who have accepted a job proposal on the basis of the provisions of the Act of 16 November 2016 and have become employees in the organizational units of the National Tax Administration since the first day of insurance. In addition, the Act includes them in the scope of the Act on the right to maternity allowance if they have taken maternity leave, maternity leave, parental leave or paternity leave on the day on which they were insured. It can therefore be considered that the proposed changes meet the expectations of this group of workers. I would just add that the proposed amendments, if adopted, will enter into force, as it is written, on 1 March 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u79	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was introduced by Members. I would like to warmly welcome Minister Marcin Zielenecki. Would the Minister like to speak? Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to what the Senator rapporteur has said, may I say that the Act of 10 February 2017 is, as if, a supplement to the amendments introduced by the Act implementing the National Tax Administration Act. This is the solution that will apply to this category of Customs Members who will agree to change their status as Customs Officer to the status of employee of the National Tax Administration. The need to amend the Social Insurance Money Insurance Act in the event of sickness and maternity results from the fact that, to this day, Customs officials in the area of sickness and maternity incapacity benefits were subject to a system of social supply, i.e. their benefits were directly financed by budgetary resources. The change in legal status means the inclusion of these persons in the general social security system. This proposal or this law provides for the exclusion of those persons who agree to such a change of legal status from the provision requiring fulfilment of the condition so-called. the waiting period necessary to collect the sickness allowance. In short, they will be entitled to sickness benefits when they move to the social security system from the first day of employment in the new structure, within the structure of the National Tax Administration. On behalf of the government, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u81	Thank you very much. Senators can now report... Please stay for a while, or there may be questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I'm just on two points, short. First thing. On this occasion, we should be able to reflect. Quite recently, we had these two laws mentioned here, the National Tax Administration Act and the law implementing this law, in front of our eyes. At that time, we complained that in such a hurry, in such an atmosphere, at such a rate we would proceed. We have observed that it can happen, and even it will happen that these regulations will prove incomplete, not fully thought out. And we have this testimony today! So it's really worth giving the Senate time. Because it's not just about the bill, it's about our House, it's about its seriousness. We're here to catch what the Sejm hasn't been able to spot. And I think the House is doing this job, doing it well. But everyone, even the legislators, has to have time for that. So let's give it time. We still have to sacrifice him, which is an example of us coming here on the twenty-eighth... And guess what, Mr. and Mrs. Senators, Mr. Minister, for what? To reconsider the law on the amendment of the National Tax Administration Act. Again! 'Cause there's more gaps, more things to do. It doesn't work, it doesn't look good. It doesn't serve the Senate either, because someone can. And you're right. Ask: you are a repair chamber, and you are not repairing it? And the second point I would like to raise on this occasion. The Minister here has told you very professionally what this is all about. But this line is... Of course this must be done, it simply must be done, because it is impossible to imagine that these benefits referred to, to the employees concerned God forbid! They wouldn't make it. In fact, we are obliged to support this, and it will certainly not come to anybody's mind not to do it. But on this occasion it is worth to say that this is also the realization of something that aroused quite a controversy. In the case of customs for a very long time, at least for as long as I remember, we stood in the Senate before such a dilemma: is this an element of a fiscal apparatus, or are these uniformed services that have powers similar to those of all other uniforms in the field of social policy and insurance? I often Maybe not year after year, but the term of office after term of office was preceded by protests of customs officers, strikes, visits here in Warsaw. Customs for many years, supported by Law and Justice, demanded further powers from the ruling coalition of the Platform and PSL, which would bring them closer to the status of uniformed services with all Let's call it that in quotes. ..privileges. or the regulations involved. And those customs officers who thought you were allies today have to swallow a bitter pill. It was one of the first decisions to be made. Already at the beginning, the dream of making the fiscal service of uniformed law and justice was almost overshadowed by the law, and the law completely overshadows it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u83	Thank you, Senator. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. There are no legislative proposals, and I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries. The text of the act is contained in print No 413 and the report of the committee In print No 413 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances discussed yesterday and gave an opinion on the Law on the exchange of tax information with other countries. It is a government project which implements four European Union directives in the field of tax information exchange into Polish legislation. The Senate Legislative Office has submitted four proposals for amendments to this bill. They were all of a legislative and technical nature, except for the first one, which also suggested certain substantive changes. Mr Skiba, present at the committee meeting, recommended that the first amendment proposed by the Legislative Bureau be rejected, but amendment two and three were accepted by the Ministry of Finance. On the other hand, as regards Amendment 4 relating to the time limits for the entry into force of the Act, this was the common position of the Ministry and legislators, and of this one amendment made four, which the Ministry also accepted. The discussion was attended by two senators: Senator Czerwiński and Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. Senator Grabowski asked me what it would be like. automatic exchange of information and how this platform will work. The Minister provided information on the data from the Polish side to this platform. Senator Czerwiński asked three questions regarding the functioning of this law. He asked, among other things, why we are doing this implementation so late, because we are the last country to implement one of these directives. The remaining questions concerned some of the benefits Poland will have for implementing these provisions. The draft law was adopted unanimously by the committee after the seven amendments which the senators had tabled had been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u85	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Not unless there are questions.]] Let me ask you this. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law is one of the series of laws that are supposed to seal the tax system, so we define it in general. Well, set up a few or even a dozen of them last year. What were the effects of this sealing last year? I ask about the 2016 average, but also about this negative dullness in December of that year. We know it's okay this January, but the question is... Maybe it is: what does the relatively small yield and effects of these laws entail in 2016, and in particular the drudgery in December? What caused it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u87	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, this question is widely related to this bill. It is worth remembering that the projects that appeared in the previous year... It was primarily a large law amending the law on value added tax, but also some changes related to the faster introduction of a single control file or a law introducing an obligation to pay in a non-cash form in the case of transactions above PLN 15 thousand. All these regulations actually only enter into force this year. When it comes to improving collection, this is the most important package that worked in 2016, this is the fuel package. He's actually... The sealing measures of 2016 are primarily a fuel package, because the legislative solutions that the High House adopted in 2016 actually started to work on 1 January. And so on. this quite important amendment, quite large amendment of the VAT Act introduced VAT sanctions, introduced solutions for the registration of... It is about greater caution and better verification in the case of registration... among others. such issues have been introduced by the VAT Act. As regards this December, the Ministry of Finance informed extensively about the overlap of two important phenomena, which are accelerating the investment process in Poland. - financed by both European and private funds This increased demand is also apparent in the macroeconomic data on increasing construction and assembly production at the end of the year allows us to trust to a greater extent that the assumed GDP growth rate will be achieved. This is also seen in the data, in the forecasts of individual economic operators. International institutions, independent of the government entities review the estimate, the forecast of growth for 2017 upwards, taking into account this investment recovery. That December was actually... This was due to the increased demand for VAT refunds. I would like to remind you that the deadline for the refund of VAT resulting from the investment is shorter than for the refund of VAT related to export. This also has an additional impact on this phenomenon. This December was linked to a significant but one-off increase in the demand for refunds, which, with less demand in January, resulted in very good VAT revenues in January. I would remind you that they were several billion, almost 5 billion higher than in a very good record December 2015, when the previous multiannual financial framework was closed. At that time it was very many transactions carried out, so this base effect, this December 2015. The difficult challenge was to match the high influences of December 2015. In December... sorry, in January 2016... January 2017, due to the latest data about 22 billion, is very good, very good compared to January 2016, when revenues amounted to 17.5 billion; then they amounted to 22 billion PLN. And this is indeed a one-time situation. We are aware that in general the tax offices are increasingly shortening the waiting period for VAT returns. We made it public that this waiting period in 2016 was reduced from about 60 days to about 30 days. This is actually also the benefit of a single control file, which is really faster we can verify, and companies can quickly get these funds and invest in order to actually support economic growth. This is also the result of a single control file and better verification of taxpayers, which also has such consequences that, as the waiting period for return decreases, it can happen that returns are simply implemented more, and in December these revenues were actually lower in effect. So if we look at it in such a way that we would like to have a full picture, we have to say that VAT revenues are taking into account very good January. In 2016, they were quite good, we hope that the dynamics in 2017 will be even better and that for this reason the revenue that is set up in the Budget Act will be achieved.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u89	Thank you very much. Questions, please. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any calls. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u90	High Senate! The joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications for the Act amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering, Senate Printing No 415, will be held today at 15.30 in room 182. And the second message. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of the applications submitted at the 35th Senate meeting to the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre, Senate Printing No 419, will take place at 15.30 p.m. in room 307 on 21 February 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u91	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 4:00 p.m. [[After 4:00 p.m., we're gonna...]] Back to point three. [[And we're done?]] Last point: information for the Sejm and the Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2016 We will consider tomorrow at 9 a.m. [[And then the vote and that's it?]] Then we'll decide what's going on with this extra point, the Sejm bill we're waiting for. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 43 to 16 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u92	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on the conversion of the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds. The text of the Act is contained in print No 417 and the report of the committee In print No 417 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to submit a report to the committee. Professor, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the course of the 35th meeting of the Health Committee, at which we discussed the law on amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. The guests were the Minister of Health Katarzyna Głowal, whom I warmly welcome, and the rapporteur, Mr Zbigniew Pawłowicz. The Act refers to the so-called. the oncology package and introduces reporting simplifications for the keeping of waiting lists on the basis of a diagnostic and oncology treatment card and gives the Minister responsible for health the authority to publish by means of a notice recommendations for diagnosis and treatment of publicly funded benefits, separately for the various fields of medicine. Minister Katarzyna Głowala discussed the bill under procedure and presented the government's position on the matter. The representative of the Legislative Office, Mrs Bożena Langner, had no legislative comment. There has been quite a long discussion on this law. If there are questions about its course, I will answer them. Senator Waldemar Kraska has tabled 1 amendment to the bill, and Senator Tomasz Grodzki has 3 amendments. Two amendments were accepted as a result of the vote: one Senator Waldemar Kraska and one Senator Tomasz Grodzki. If there are questions, I will tell you in detail what these amendments were about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u94	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Władysław Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Professor, Senator rapporteur, I have two questions. My first question is this: why does the law allow you to withdraw from medical consilies? Thus, one of the most important assumptions of the current oncology package is being challenged. This record is very important for the patient and his further treatment. Making available to the patient at the beginning of the treatment process for a team of specialists such as oncologists, surgeons, radiotherapists, chemo therapists and many other doctors who gather in one place to determine further treatment is undoubtedly the achievement of this package. And I think we'll agree on that. Besides, the professor knows about it like nobody else. And the second question is, why does the law take away family doctors' motivational indicators? Such indicators, Senator, are all over Europe, because it accelerates the detection of cancer in patients. However, this law removes motivational requirements from the medical environment, while at the same time increasing the rates all equally, i.e. abolishing any motivation to study patients. I've been discussing this with a few doctors, especially oncologists, and that's where my questions come from, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u96	Thank you very much. We discussed the photo of the statistics from the POZ at the committee meeting, but I would prefer that the Minister responds to this. That's one thing. When it comes to relinquishing consillas, it is not entirely true. I think so for two reasons. First of all, there's been an amendment that says that I'm sorry, I'm just gonna reach for the list. She's talking about not doctors, just doctors... Those are lips. Article 4 and Article 5 32b. Point 2 refers to the indication of the provider, including the name of the doctor who provided the healthcare services. There was a proposed amendment to make it not about the doctor, but about the doctors. This amendment has been voted out. I think the Minister will discuss this in detail. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u97	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Katarzyna Głowala, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: I would like to answer these questions.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Shall I repeat, Mrs. Marshal, is that the question of the Minister's record?]] We're gonna ask that right now. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: I have noted.]] [[Thank you very much.]] The Minister will address the question that had been raised earlier. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u98	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! I'm gonna start with a question about the liquidation of consilies. The Minister of Health does not eliminate consilies As far as konsilia is concerned, it is regulated by the Basket Regulation. This is not the subject of the benefit bill. The question of consilies, as I say, is regulated in the basket regulation. The Minister of Health, on the other hand, is wondering, because this is an implementing act for the bill... This is a matter of analysis conducted at the Ministry of Health. There will be a meeting with oncology consultants from all fields. We are considering giving up consilies in certain areas. It is about identifying areas in which these consilies would be optional. As I say, it's in the analysis stage, there's going to be a meeting with consultants. The Minister of Health does not eliminate consilies. As far as tumor recognition is concerned, the rate was set at 1 to 15. That's 70%. ... meant that on 15 issued cards it was necessary to confirm 1 tumor. According to the analyses carried out, the average value of the indicator was around 60%, which means that the card was issued rather when the POM doctor was confident about the occurrence of the cancer. So this recipe was dead, no indication was found to trigger the treatment of a POZ doctor. Therefore, the recipe has been abandoned, but we will monitor whether the issuing of DiLO cards is simply abused. [[Can I, Mrs. Marshal, excuse me, ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u99	You're welcome, Senator, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u100	May I ask the Minister to answer the first question in writing?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u101	Absolutely. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u102	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! At the committee meeting, we kind of slipped through on the issue of introducing an oncology coordinator. Could you give us not so many specific provisions of the bill, but such a human language... It's about why we're introducing it, why we're introducing it, who's going to finance it, what's the benefit of it. This was not discussed at the committee meeting. I'm sorry, but we missed it somehow. Could you give us a closer look at this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u104	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u105	The point is, the coordinator is to coordinate the treatment... [[Well, as the name suggests.]] ...the patient's name. The point is that the patient doesn't run around looking for what clinic he's supposed to go to, where he's supposed to report, where the queues are, and so on. The patient will have an assigned coordinator and this coordinator will lead this patient from start to finish. This is also an improvement in the functioning of the oncology package. [[I'm having second thoughts about...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u106	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u107	So the coordinator's running the patient. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Yes.]] Suppose the coordinator has a problem. It's not like the coordinator's gonna call there, tell him I have a patient, and take him, and then send him out. Well, here's the life stuff that happens. So the coordinator will coordinate with the other coordinator. And if these two don't get along, who's gonna coordinate it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u108	I'm sorry, but it's hard for me to answer that question right now... [[Oh, no, Minister, I'm sorry that maybe this is...]] I know, but... [[But that's life. Really.]] I do. I agree, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u109	Believe me, this is the life of patients who run into coordinators. The coordinator with the coordinator... And then he doesn't know where to go. Well, maybe we should call a super-coordinator. That's what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u110	Does the Minister have anything else to add on this matter? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: No.]] Thank you very much. [[Bogdan Borusewicz: I have a question.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Marshal. Because now you're Senator Andrzej Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u111	Yes. If the Minister would allow me, I would add to the coordinator because the position of coordinator was introduced at the time of the introduction of the DiLO card. She's a nurse with medical education. The coordinator has the task of coordinating the DiLO card, i.e. guarding the deadlines, because the DiLO card has deadlines for which the National Health Fund pays differently. First there is pre-diagnosis, then deeper, then when there is a consilium, then on the consilium it is already defined what treatment the patient is undergoing. And then the patient reports to the coordinator. The patient doesn't run around to make appointments anymore, only the coordinator calls and arrange visits. And for the password of the DiLO card, unfortunately here is the superiority of the DiLO card, all doors open because the National Health Fund pays no limit. So that's a very important function.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, before you ask a question... Because before that, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski came forward. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question concerns transitional provisions. It's in the article. 11 is an authorisation, which is actually mandatory in the case of oncology diagnosis and oncology treatment, for the Minister responsible for Health to issue recommendations Let's call it that. There is no clear date in the transitional provisions until which the notice should be published. Does this mean that it is to be simultaneously, that is, including the entry into force of the law? Because the deadline was extended by two months, from March to July or something. And if there's no term, then it's any term. Question: Is this intended, or is it supposed to be including the entry into force of the law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u114	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u115	As regards the notice on oncology procedure, here it is introduced as a duty and standards for oncology treatment already partially function. And this is a matter of the fact that, as the regulation says, they will develop this, separately for particular areas, appropriate associations, which are in accordance with the provisions of their statutes of scientific associations of national scope, which bring together specialists in the field of medicine. So it's the specialists who'll work it out. Only when the standards are ready will the Minister announce it in the form of a notice. These standards will, of course, be evaluated by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies. And for other areas of medicine, that's optional. As there are so many areas, there is no timetable for which the field will be developed first. It's just that once the bill comes into force, we'll start working on it. But I have experience in other areas. Unfortunately, I will be honest with you that there is already one team that has been appointed by the Minister of Health to develop standards, despite the fact that the deadline expired in January that year, January 2016, and we are already in February 2017. They are still being developed because these are unusual procedures. Everything depends on how a given team, which will, say, be called to develop, will work. And we're gonna try to get it done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u116	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u117	I thought the Senator rapporteur explained everything, but it turns out he didn't, not for me. The coordinator shall not replace the consilium. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: No, no.]] Because I thought the coordinator was a specialist... No? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: No.]] The coordinator will take care of... In fact, she's a nurse who's only gonna take care of the technical side? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Yes. Coordinating.]] Coordinating not treatment, but the technical site, time, etc. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u118	Yes. Like I said at the beginning... [[And the consilium could exist or...]] The consilium will be functioning. The Minister of Health does not eliminate consilies. [[I understand, but it's not mandatory. It's fine, but it doesn't have to be. Yes?]] It's left behind for now. The question of consilies is regulated in the Basket Regulation. It's regulated, and we're not changing anything here. We're just wondering, like I said... There are certain areas that do not require the participation of several doctors, e.g. In the case of haematology, a surgeon is not required to participate in the consilium. Therefore, we do not exclude But this is for now at the analysis stage. "Definitions in the Regulation of those areas which do not require consilies, but simply by indicating them. We're about to have a meeting with oncologists on this subject. I think there will be a position on this issue because this proposal has come out of the oncology environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u119	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u120	I see. I'm glad to hear what the Minister is saying, because I think it's a consylia. facilitate appropriate treatment. Besides, such a patient was not chased from Annas to Caiaphas, from one specialist to another. This would be the case when it comes to the consensus of oncologists from different fields, because there are also specializations in oncology... The treatment of the patient could be determined immediately by the consillium. You don't give up on that, do you?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u121	No, we don't give up on consillas. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u122	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Rafał the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u123	Mrs Marshal, Minister, High Senate, the Senator-rapporteur informed us that the Health Committee is bringing two amendments to the bill. What is the ministry's attitude towards these amendments?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u124	To one amendment concerning the extension of the date of entry into force of the law for reasons, well, known, because there is a deadline of 31 March, and we also need to adapt the system... The government will agree with this amendment. The position towards the second amendment is negative.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u125	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Władysław Komarnicki. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill is short, so the commentary will also be short, especially since we have been discussing this draft law for a long time at the committee meeting. I regret that this second bill is not supported by the Minister and the Government. I think that would be an element that shows that this is related to the deep discussion at the committee meeting. That you are listening not only to the opposition, but also to your colleagues in Law and Justice. A few words about the bill. I feel like this bill... Well, she's not gonna screw up the system, but the question is, is she gonna bring anything good to the patient? And that's the fundamental question. Of course, if we are talking about reducing bureaucracy, because that is the proposal here, it is a move in the right direction. As far as I can remember, there'll be two pages coming out of nine pages. Well, here and the medical community, and the nursing community, and patients contacting their doctors, all raised this important aspect that the less bureaucracy when making decisions, and especially documenting, sending out different kinds of papers, the better it is. However, there are things that may be of little importance from the management point of view, but they certainly are more important from the point of view of those concerned in terms of the introduction of this law. Well, I completely do not understand what the Minister said and at the committee meeting, and here, from the speaker, namely the justification for abolishing the cancer recognition rate. If it's that good, let's not leave the 1/15 indicator, let's just do what we've read about in some countries: 1/5 or 1/8. Let's get that indicator up. Let us not go this way: if the indicator is well implemented, then it must be eliminated. Oh, no, you have to learn from that. The whole system discussed at the committee meeting as regards the readability of this indicator is not that good; first of all. Secondly, the two-year period, Minister, when it comes to the introduction of this law, is too short in my view to resign immediately. I know the P.O.O.D. doctors brought in the first time this indicator was introduced... And now that he's here and when it turns out they fit in that indicator, why would he even... Let's get him out of here. I think it's a move in the wrong direction. He should be left behind, monitored, and maybe picked up. What concerns consilies is not directly related to this law, but to the discussion that was at the committee's meeting. I would like to say that this is an important aspect that has brought much good to the entire oncology treatment system. But I know why, in some oncology facilities, you want to be asked, asked, that these consilies don't work. I think these voices are isolated. Oncology facilities should be institutions with the highest reference degrees, with the best staff, with a large share of consilies, with a large share of scientific and experimental elements, and not with what is often related to the oncology adventure in smaller units. That is why so much importance was attached to the consilies during the discussion. The whole draft law, in short, eliminates some elements that would be worth considering in the longer term, such as an indicator of recognition. The project aims to relieve POZ doctors, and in the case of the patient we're talking about here. In my opinion, It doesn't bring much. If this system of typing the coordinator's position into the bill... Well, I'm generally against having any positions put on the bill. These are the elements of the functioning of the system that should be regulated by the system manager. I believe that the bill is, to put it mildly, in a legislative sense, not bringing anything in the case of a patient, and a little relief and assistance will be given to POZ doctors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Andrzej Wojtyla, please speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u128	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I would like to speak first about the oncology package because there have been some misunderstandings in the discussion. The oncology package was introduced on 1 January 2015. It was a missed idea from the very beginning. Because the card itself that we write is a diagnostic and oncology treatment card, and it is known that cancers need to be combated, not only by diagnosing and treating them, but above all by prevention. World standards refer to the creation of cancel unit, i.e. centres for prevention, diagnosis and cancer treatment. Currently, the biggest problem in Poland, even when covering the total costs of screening, is reporting both women and men, e.g. for colonoscopy tests in the case of colorectal cancer is the reporting rate... If we don't make sure that women report for mammograms, cervical cancer or colonoscopy tests, and that's what the money's for. We're going to have the same problem as Dr. Didkowska, head of the National Cancer Register; at the moment, we have about 200,000, about 190 or 200,000, and we're going to have half a million of them, and that's because we're not treating the problem. global cancers: prevention, early detection and diagnosis, treatment. We share the care system for cancer patients, which is limited to treatment. At most meetings and conferences on cancers, it is said that in Poland the incidence of cancers In fact, it is lower than in the Western countries, but mortality is much higher. Why is the incidence lower? We are, ladies and gentlemen, one of the youngest societies in Europe. We have 13.8% of people over the age of 65. Ireland has a lower indicator That's 11%. Slovakia has almost as much as we do. 13 per cent , including Cyprus. And since they're... And cancer is an old person's disease, because cells cancer more often with age. But in this connection, we will have more cancers if we do not make sure that the young generation, so that young people use healthy, healthy, non-smoking, does not abuse alcohol to lead an active lifestyle. Without it, we can't deal with cancer in 25 years or 50 years' time. The oncology package was already assumed to be a missed project And that's what we have to say today. Minister Radziwiłł is fixing the system that Minister Arłukowicz introduced, but does not say whose idea this is wrong. He doesn't talk about it because he's well-mannered. But on the other hand, there's criticism, so to speak, a little below a certain level. I, even though I myself was the Minister of Health, criticize my successors for the first time, the predecessors of the Minister. Even though there is such an unwritten rule that you don't criticize yourself, because everyone knows how difficult this piece of bread is. But I'm annoyed that whoever messed up, who introduced faulty projects, criticizes his successor for trying to reform this project out of elegance without saying who messed up. And these solutions, which are promoted here, are going in that direction. Now a few words about the very effects of this oncology package. Well, it seems about 190 DiLO cards a year, but on the assumption... [[Ninety-ninety thousand.]] ...yes, thousands of DiLO cards. And assuming that the accuracy is between 3 and 5, these cards should be issued between 700 and 800 thousand in Poland. But we only spend 200,000. So the Deputy Minister of Health was right to say at the health market conference that only 30% of patients receive DiLO cards and other patients are treated as if outside of this card. And now that we look at the statistics, we'll see that for example. breast cancer waiting for treatment lasts 10 weeks with the DiLO card and 50 weeks without the DiLO card; in the case of heart cancer 37 weeks without the DiLO card, 8 weeks with the DiLO card; in the case of lung cancer 29,4 weeks without the DiLO card and 5.8 weeks with the DiLO card. So 30% of the patients get medical help before, according to the regulations, and 70% get medical attention. it receives it later than it was before 2015. The experts rightly say that with the introduction of the DiLO card the waiting time was reduced by 3 days, because it was 77 days, and now it is 74 days. And that's it, that's the result of the introduction of the DiLO card. I will no longer talk about the substantive errors that brought the introduction of this card, because so-called. an in-depth diagnosis, according to the regulations, is carried out when we have a histopathological examination, but in some cases such a histopathological examination in the outpatient conditions of a specialist cannot be performed, e.g. in the case of testicular, ovary or central nervous system cancer, and then the patient is guided somewhat outside the package, is treated as any other patient, i.e. nothing has changed. Besides, there are some cases... in the colonoscopy study, it is concluded that the bowel was closed enough that next week there will be an obstruction, and you have to operate immediately without histopathological examination, and then this patient is no longer included in the oncology package. These are errors connected with the introduction of this project, which is a thoughtless project and which has caused the patient's distress even greater, especially before the so-called. Consilium. Of course, the consilium... The Ministry is trying to improve this because the rigid composition of this consilium causes... e.g. In haematological diseases you cannot decide immediately, often these decisions are taken backwards, DiLO cards at the level of specialized treatment can only be issued after a histopathological examination. If this is not the case, the patient is sent to POZ, and then he calls his POZ colleague to write a DiLO card, which is rather than simplifying the patient's path, the patient's path becomes difficult. It was not thought that access to certain procedures, e.g. radiotherapy, is uneven in Poland. As far as radiotherapy is concerned, Silesia has radiotherapy centres in Częstochowa, Katowice, Gliwice, Bielsko Biała, and in Mazowieckie, which is a much larger centre, there are only 2 centres located in Warsaw. And if someone introduces such a system, then they should estimate it all, tell them exactly, give the patient a clue as to who's gonna treat it. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Mr. Senator, please proceed to...]] Mr. Marshal, I'll be done in a minute. Since 2013, the head and co-organizer at my hospital of such a centre of prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of cancer according to WHO standards, international standards. And there's also a coordinator who doesn't have to be a nurse, and there's a public health specialist. This coordinator is running this patient. There's a consylia going on, but in this center of ours, as we've been given the DiLO card, it's just a hindrance. Of course, doctors can handle it, because doctors outside of the DiLO card operate, but the hospital loses because it exceeds the limits. E.g. my hospital for this reason is indebted to $3 million, just because he doesn't receive money because he didn't treat according to the DiLO card, and he had to treat patients and operate patients who from a medical point of view There was no need to do any histopathological tests, but to treat them as a matter of urgency in relation to haematological conditions, or to operate if they were tumors that threatened health. And that's why, Minister, I'm not against what you're doing, because you're actually trying to fix this faulty system... But because I think this project is stupid... In addition, Minister Arłukowicz, in relation to Minister Radziwiłł, behaves illustriously, without class, I will not vote for something that was introduced by Minister Arłukowicz. I believe that this is a harmful system and even its improvement will not serve patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u129	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Stanisławek was the last person to speak in the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was very surprised to hear Minister Wojtyla speak and allow me to present a slightly different opinion on the diagnostic and oncological treatment card. The introduction of this card, even though it has been introduced by the current opposition, I consider it to be one of the biggest achievements in oncology treatment, but the statistics given by the Minister are indeed alarming to me. I'd say there's no supervision here. As with most laws, we try to fix the limping law, and sometimes it turns out that we could not fix it, but increase surveillance. Why? Diagnosis and oncology card It's a non-limit, it's an opportunity. making money, any money by a medical facility that has a signed contract with the National Health Fund. I, as soon as the DiLO card came in, after talking to the principal, I had a hard time betting on DiLO. We were one of the leading centers when it comes to the number of cards set up, and I'm keeping an eye on it. There's no treatment in the limit, but there's unlimited treatment. This is a huge benefit for the patient, but also comfort for the doctor. Now I don't have to call radiology and ask for a CT scan, but the nurse says briefly: DiLO card. Minister, this extension to 10 weeks from the patient's admission to treatment is not included in the DiLO card. At the moment from the patient's arrival to the end of the diagnosis is 21 days, then they are only 2 weeks from the consilium until the beginning of the treatment, i.e. if someone correctly fills and obeys the DiLO card, it is 5 weeks. This serves both the patient and the doctor, because I'm gonna say it again. I don't need to ask for any diagnostics. It's a duty. This modernized DiLO card is absolutely the right direction. You gave an example of surgery in case we don't know what's causing the obstruction. But this will be changed from July 1st, according to the Senator's amendment, and then we in AOS immediately assume a DiLO card and no longer have a limit, we have no financial limitation. Someone who doesn't understand how the National Health Fund accounts, doesn't understand what a non-limit means, that a hospital isn't afraid for money to operate and pay. But you can't say everything is perfect. We had reservations, and I still have those reservations. Mostly about the National Cancer Register, about the underestimation that was functioning and functioning, because ultimately it was not explained when to report to the National Cancer Register. The DiLO card was very clear. If we go to a deeper stage, we already have a histopathological diagnosis and we will not go further with the card in the system if we do not enter it in the National Cancer Register and the number from the National Cancer Register. I thought it was the right thing to do, and I still think it's the only... Unfortunately, the doctor never has time, he always has too much paperwork. I used to talk about it, but I will remind you that in Poland there are 1 million tips a day, 1 million tips a day with twice as many doctors as the European average. So the doctor in Poland is twice as busy as the average European doctor. Yeah, well, we don't appreciate the National Cancer Register if we don't force ourselves to do that kind of discipline and work. About the consylia... Well, here I'm dissatisfied that the Ministry doesn't want to accept this minor change that... The name of the provider, including the doctor's name... Well, we're afraid it's gonna be, so to speak, consylia picks. I am also in favour of the fact that there should be doctors there. The consilium is the greatest achievement, of course, beyond the benefit of the patient, the diagnostics and oncology treatment cards. That's what the senators said. And I totally agree with that, because four doctors with different degrees of knowledge, knowledge of constantly changing medicine... It's not as medical as it used to be when new drugs came in every couple of years. Now new drugs come in every six months. We need to keep up the good work. Well, fortunately, the oncology societies understand it perfectly well, we have major conventions every six months, where we learn about new techniques and new treatments. Without it, we can't keep up with the world. So that the consilium must be maintained. And I absolutely opt that there is no way that there will be a doctor's name in the bill, not doctors' names, and these consilies will disappear somewhere. There is also talk of local malignant tumors. This is a situation... Well, the minister said it would be in the basket regulation, these non-malicious cancers, because not all malignant or locally malignant cancers are indeed a problem for the patient. But some of them are a problem for the patient. And including them in the DiLO card, i.e. to the limit, would be absolutely right. I would rate the whole thing very well if it were the comprehensive treatment that the Minister is talking about, which is... As Minister Wojtyła mentioned, oncology treatment prevention is also needed. Yes, of course, I agree here. Because if there's a comprehensive treatment, then there's gonna be prevention, and treatment, and then rehabilitation. Well, let's get to... Let us set a difficult course, but let us strive to improve quality. And I'm just a little bit short of the ministry giving us this, I'd say, positive indicator that the revised, revised DiLO card will be an impulse to improve the quality of treatment. Because this is the main theme of the DiLO card: shorten diagnostics, time from the patient's arrival to the start of treatment, but at the same time improve its quality. The differences in cancer treatment in Poland and Europe are not large. We often say we have bad results. I wouldn't whip myself like that. I believe that in some cancers we have very good results of treatment, good and very good. Because if there's 55 in Poland and there's 57 in Switzerland, I'm not going to say what kind of cancer it's going to be... Okay, that's 3%. Only, Dear Senators, Madam Minister, how much money sometimes costs these 3% ? It's also our weakness that we're not talking about money at all. That's our big weakness. For the amount of money that is spent on health care, the results of treatment in Poland are excellent and the patient's access to the doctor and health care system is very good. And if we wanted to improve the quality of this access and treatment, we would have to talk about increasing the amount of money in the system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-21-senat-35-1.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the record, Senator Komarnicki made his speech in the discussion on the protocol. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm calling for a recess by 9:00 tomorrow. Once the session is resumed, we will proceed with the examination of the ninth point: information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July This Decision shall enter into force on the [[Adjournment at the meeting at 16 minutes 45]]
