ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Wojciech King, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch and Mr Krzysztof Truskolas to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, the secretaries will be Arkadiusz Carrot and Krzysztof Truskolaska. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Arkadiusz Carrot and Wojciech Król. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad - h. 9, - Public Finance - hour. 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.15, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - Infrastructure - hour 10, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 11, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 12.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 13, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 3.30 p.m., - Infrastructure - hour 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Persons with disabilities - hour 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Promotion of the Slag - hour. 16, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u3	Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on repatriation and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry has submitted reports on Parliament's draft laws on the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act. The reports shall be printed in 1337, 1411 and 1335 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of these reports. I propose that in the case of the printing reports Nos 1411 and 1337 the Sejm should agree to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda, he listened to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 140th anniversary of Bolesław Bięgas' birth. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - about the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland, - amending the Code of Administrative Procedure and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the excise duty law, - amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims, - to amend the Environmental Law Act. The reports shall be printed in 1445, 1452, 1450, 1451 and 1468 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to three-minute statements in clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time of the answer to an additional question. The first question is asked by Andrzej Gawron, Jarosław Gonciarz, Jerzy Paul and Zbigniew Dolat on plans for the development of the aviation industry in Poland - to the Minister for Development. Mr Gawron is the first question to be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u4	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! In Poland we have very rich traditions related to the aviation industry. We have facilities in the form of airlines in Mielec and Świdnik, but we also have about 100 plants in the Aviation Valley. Young Polish engineers from Rzeszów are working on the development of the design of unmanned cameras. There is great potential here, both in the civil sector and in military applications. Therefore, thanks to the use of modern technologies and intellectual facilities, Polish industry can dominate the drone industry in the long term. We also have an interesting offer on the manned aircraft market. Here you can quote, for example, a Skytruck transport plane with an interest worldwide or an agricultural Dromader plane. Developing these projects and building them on native technologies - this is important in my opinion - can be a huge opportunity for the whole industry. Poland has very strong academic centres and research institutes specialising in the aviation industry. We have first and foremost highly qualified staff and this is our big plus here and the advantage. What is the Ministry's action on the development of aviation companies? What specific programmes, such as EU funds, are targeted at the aviation industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u5	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, answers the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we thank you very much for this question, because indeed these threads, which were raised by Members in the question, concerning the development potential of the aviation industry, have been noticed in the Responsible Development Strategy in at least a few places, and in the most material way, as one of the flagship strategy programmes - in the program, which has a contractual name "Growd and Wigura." In your question there are two components, one concerning the development of the classic aviation industry, and the other concerning the development of unmanned aircraft. What we're aiming for, of course, is, given the base on which we're based... According to our estimates of how many companies operate in this area in Poland, it is about 130 companies, and directly in the sector there are more than 40 companies employing 20,000. employees. These are, on the one hand, the biggest global players who chose Poland because of not only labour costs, but above all, the engineering quality of the centres mentioned in the question and, on the other hand, it is already over 100 co-operatives in the Aviation Valley, small and medium-sized companies, but not only, because in other places in Poland this industry is also developing brilliantly. Thus, with such a basis, it seemed reasonable to include the industry in the Responsible Development Strategy. So what are the challenges and what are our expectations? Firstly, it is one of those industries which certainly have to respond to the challenges that are changing in the case of industrial transformation towards the so-called. Industry 4.0... Thus, the transition from a labour-intensive economy to a knowledge-based economy, achieving a balance in the labour market despite the shrinking resources, changing the positioning of Polish entrepreneurs in global value chains - and thus that the suppliers of these most complex engineering solutions for global players located in Poland are as much as possible - adapting the education system, because the human resource necessary for this sector is also extremely important, and we will be able to observe shortcomings in this area in the next few years, and finally coordinating legislation, especially when we are talking about the development of unmanned aircraft. So, what we are very strongly looking for is to support and strengthen competitiveness primarily in the transition from uncomplicated products to the lowest prices to the increasingly advanced ones. The goal we set ourselves is indeed to digitise as many processes as possible. This is the purpose of the legislation currently being prepared at the Ministry of Development, which aims to establish platform 4.0. Companies have already been invited to this platform, both the largest and the smaller subcontractors, in order to create a base, a good base for industry 4.0, for industry, where more and more workers will communicate not among themselves, but machines among themselves, in order to actually increase this production in Poland. The second element, among others. on this platform will take place, there will be even greater cooperation between science and industry, so that the cooperation of centres such as Warsaw University of Technology, Rzeszow University of Technology, Military Technical Academy, Mining and Hutnicz Academy or finally the Institute of Aviation in Warsaw with subcontractors, with entrepreneurs, will be even greater. It seems that it has actually been done as part of the work on the bill. In a material sense, this is the continuation of the INNOLOT program, a program prepared by the National Centre for Research and Development, whose first edition in the context of the previous financial perspective ended and caused that several excellent engineering projects were actually carried out. Now work is being done on changing the research agenda in cooperation with companies that operate in this area, and research centres, in order to launch another call for the next edition of INNOLOT this year. The budget of this programme will be no less than PLN 400 million, but it will be possible to increase these measures further under the agenda. In the second area, which Members have been asking about, namely the development of drones, we are in the process of developing, and by June we will be ready to prepare a legislative work plan in three areas. First, a catalogue of legislative changes necessary for the development of unmanned systems in Poland. Here we cooperate with the Civil Aviation Office, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of National Defence on the necessary changes, which will allow a much larger number of services, both for the civil sector and for the harder one, to be provided in Poland. Moreover, we are also actively involved in the development of certain standards for the use of drones within the European Union, because we know very well that if this sector can be competitive, today, when it comes to years of unmanned operation, it is not just flying equipment, but all the software and visualisation is the greatest added value that we can bring to this sector, so we are also actively involved in standardising certain services within the European Union. This catalogue of legislative amendments will therefore be prepared by June. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Secondly, identification [[♪ The bell ♪]] the needs of the public administration. And thirdly, the center of advanced services provided by drones. These are things that will be developed by June - as well as a specially dedicated program at the National Centre for Research and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. And here you are, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u8	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, In our country there are many airports operating as sports airports, but after some expansion some of them could be a base for business flights and so-called. A little cargo traffic. The biggest problem of this type of facility, which could be modernised, is infrastructure. This requires some investment, starting with the construction of a new the runway, ending with a container filling station, as well as the construction of access roads, parking lots. On the example of Gliwice, which is about to make such an expansion, it can be shown that the modernisation of the airport will also be dedicated to investors who have their bets nearby, e.g. in the nearby special economic zone. I wanted to ask if the Ministry was going to support, help those cities that wanted to do this kind of modernisation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and have also small business class airports while promoting the economic development of its region.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u9	Thank you very much. And again, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, answers the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! The development of aviation and the development of a network of individual airports providing business services is certainly one of the areas worth looking at, which is worth paying attention to. But at the same time, it is worth remembering that, in this financial perspective, funds for the development of this type of aviation infrastructure are significantly limited. If we're targeting ourselves in the field of aviation development... The programme adopted by the government clearly indicates the direction of the construction of the Central Airport or the Central Communication Port, because we look at it in a broader context: not only the airport, but also a significant transport hub, also a cargo type. Hence, significant organisational, legislative and financial efforts will be concentrated in this area. As part of the expansion of local ports, it is worth paying attention to regional operational programmes in which resources can be found such measures. In some areas, Gliwice seems to be a good example of this - especially where there is a high industrial concentration, this direction can be supported primarily by legislative solutions, if required and reported by the regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Czesław Mroczyk and Mr Cezary Tomczyk on changes in the pension system of professional soldiers - to the Ministry of National Defence. The first question is asked by Mr Czesław Mroczek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The pension supply system for professional soldiers is one of the pillars of the stability of military service. Unfortunately, military service is linked to the danger of loss of health and life. Therefore, a soldier must be sure that in such dramatic situations - especially then - he can count on securing his fate, and in particular that his family will be protected. I would therefore like to ask the Minister about changes in the pension supply system of professional soldiers and their families, which you intend to introduce in the near future or which you intend to introduce. December 2nd Ub. The draft law amending the pension supply system for professional soldiers and their families has entered the Sejm, where you plan drastic, I repeat, a drastic reduction in pensions, and in particular, what is already extremely shocking, family pensions paid to the families of fallen soldiers. This bill is supposed to cover thousands of soldiers and their families. At the same time, we hear about this - said Minister Antoni Macierewicz himself - that some provisions are planned to be introduced in connection with the degradation of soldiers and in active service, and at rest. This degradation will also be linked to the reduction of pension rights. A few months ago, there was also a very lively discussion about the government's plans for pensions, not only for professional soldiers, but for uniform services in general, some ideas for equalisation, harmonisation of the pension payment system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - those pensions for uniformed services - like the ZUS system. In view of the fact that this is a particularly important issue, I would ask the Minister to tell us what the department's intentions are in relation to changes in the pension supply system for professional soldiers and their families.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u13	Thank you very much, sir. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Bartłomiej Grabski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As regards the pension scheme of professional soldiers, the current management of the national defence department is not planning any changes in the pension system of professional soldiers in the active service. Once again, when asked by Members of the Civic Platform, we answer that no changes in the pension system of professional soldiers in the active service are planned. The proposal, which Mr Sejm is talking about on 2 December, to amend the Act on pension provision for professional soldiers and their families, which provides for the reduction of pensions, I note, of military pensions, concerns among others. members of the WRON, former professional soldiers who served in the totalitarian state: in the WSW, in the Management Board of the Second General Staff. This project, which lies in the Seym, is an expression of elementary social justice. It is not acceptable for soldiers who served the totalitarian state to receive much higher pensions than other servants in the military. The main objective of this project is to ensure that the situation when pensioners serving either in the Board of II General Staff, or in the ISS, receive pensions of more than 10,000. zł, when others receive much lower salaries... So that I stress once again, Mr President: this is an expression of elementary justice, so that such benefits are not received by people who are unworthy to receive such benefits in free Poland. I would like to stress once again that the Ministry of National Defence, and especially the Minister of National Defence, as well as the entire management of the Ministry, aims to ensure that the soldiers who are serving today receive a decent salary, a decent allowance and that they have stability and security of service. These priorities quoted by the Minister at the outset are fulfilled by the Ministry of National Defence, as an example of which is a project which will stand on today's Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers and which restores the right of professional soldiers to full coverage in the event of medical dismissal to 30 days. This will be paid 100% , and not - as so far - in a reduced height. I would also like, Minister, to remind you of what took place during the rule of the Civic Platform in 2010 and 2012 when the departure from military service concerned by far more soldiers, officers, petty officers than those 1.5 years of rule of law and justice. At that time, housing allowances of about PLN 400 million were paid. Nor can we agree with the allegations that soldiers are leaving the Polish Army or are being fired. According to data compiled by the Department of Personnel, 267 colonels left the army in 2016, for example, in 2010, when the PO-PSL coalition ruled, 294 colonels left. As for the estimates that are planned for the coming months or years, we are not able to make such estimates, as more than 80% of professional soldiers leave as a result of the termination of the service. Between 2010 and 2011, under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, the service was terminated by 531 colonels, and in 2015 and 2016 by 402. I would also like to draw attention to the amount of expenditure from the State budget related to housing checks. For example, in 2016, a total of 879 benefits of this type were paid. The figures indicated show that it is completely unfounded that politicians of the Civic Platform make an argument about mass departures and even purges in the army. Your marshal, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask Mr Caesar Tomczyk's question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u16	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I'm a little surprised at what you said, because on the one hand, in the first sentence, you say there will be no changes, and in the second sentence you say there is a bill. I mean, there's either no change, or there's a bill. Therefore, the question is whether you have already withdrawn this law. Second thing. You're talking about justice in free Poland. Is it fair, therefore, to sentence soldiers to lower their pensions, when, for example, they do. Only 1 day worked in a previous system called the Polish People's Commonwealth? Or in the case of soldiers who ended up e.g. Military Technical Academy and were assigned on the basis of a service assignment to one or another place, worked there for 1 day or 1 month, their entire future life was to be crossed? Or are there also unworthy wives and children who receive benefits from soldiers who have been on missions in Afghanistan or Iraq? Finally, what about the white book, which was published by the Social Insurance Institution and which hits the desk of Prime Minister Szydło? There's a recommendation in it that [[♪ The bell ♪]] all systems have been merged within the Social Insurance Institution and so that benefits for soldiers are not at the same height - to separate soldiers on the line from those who work behind a desk. And we know that this is not possible in the army, because the structure of work is completely different than e.g. in mining and a line or a professional path from the very beginning...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u18	One sentence, Marshal. ...looks completely different. I do not know if the Minister realises that these recommendations from the White Paper, which soldiers are so concerned about, are on the Prime Minister's desk. So if you could That's what I'm trying to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u19	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u20	Gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! Let me repeat: no changes in the pension system of professional soldiers in active service are planned. The changes that are planned concern military pensioners, i.e. those who served the totalitarian communist state. I can send it to you again so that you can understand what these changes are all about. As regards these issues, the Ministry maintains that these benefits should be significantly reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly scandalous that the WSW soldiers of the Board of 2nd General Staff who served the totalitarian state of law receive pensions of 10,000. PLN and over 10,000. zł. Talking about one day of service in one military unit or another, which does not actually deprive you of the right to a pension, but only reduce it to a fair amount, is abuse. It is as if we are talking about these cleaning women, Mr. Sergeant, who served in the Security Service or in the Public Security Office. On one more point that you have raised. Another issue is the issue of soldiers and officers who had an episode in their professional career, served for the previous system, and died in free Poland during the performance of their duties. In particular, we are talking about people who died during foreign missions. In this respect, as I have already mentioned at another session of the Sejm, changes will be made. The Minister of National Defence is prepared to accept the amendments to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u21	Thank you very much. [[Just a corrigendum.]] Please, in corrigendum mode. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u22	In corrigendum mode. Mrs. Marshal! I just want to make the minister aware, because maybe you don't know, it's a shocking news that there's no such thing as a totalitarian state of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u23	Thank you very much. Please ask the question, the third question will ask... You're still the Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! A totalitarian communist state.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u25	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the third question. The third question is asked by Members Jerzy Jachnik and Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15, on consumer fraud and the use of personal data in crime. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. The first question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u26	Thank you. Minister! I would like to ask you what kind of action you are taking on permanent consumer fraud, which is particularly true for older people, by impersonating different companies and encouraging people to deal with contracts that have serious consequences. I will use an example here, because recently on the market there is a very active company NOVA Telcom based in Warsaw, which urges its customers to change contracts, impersonating Orange SA, and then turns off phones for these people. By the time these people realize it, they cannot withdraw from the contract and must pay high contractual penalties, i.e. from PLN 1000 to PLN 1500. The basic question is, where do these companies get personal information? How do these personal data come into possession? We say, for example, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, They call their cell phones and they know they have cell phones. I consulted with the consumer attorney, the district spokesperson in Bielsk. This has been a serious action lately. There are cases in various D.A.'s offices. I have the impression that the Attorney General or the State's Attorney General doesn't cover it because they don't know what and how many prosecutors it's in. I would ask the Minister to answer whether such matters should not be supervised by the National Public Prosecutor's Office because, in particular, I stress this, older people are at risk of doing so. In this way, they are often deprived of their entire pension benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u27	Thank you very much. Deputy Attorney General Robert Hernand will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u28	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, In answer to the question of the Member, I would like to inform you that the National Public Prosecutor's Office, having regard to the letter from the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection, already in 2016, decided to check how many such proceedings are registered at national level. 700 such proceedings have been disclosed, including decommitted proceedings or proceedings terminated by the initiation of a preliminary investigation. In view of the fact that a number of economic operators have been exposed, not only those whom you have spoken of, but also other economic operators who offer telecommunications services, but not so much telecommunications services, because also energy and medical services, the prosecution has decided to hand over to one prosecutor, the District Prosecutor's Office in Płock, all these procedures to check the personal links between these economic operators, because they have been disclosed, and this is, of course, the investigative version, that these entities are either set up by the same persons or are linked to each other. All these proceedings completed by remission and refusal to initiate proceedings will be examined by the District Attorney's Office in Płock, which is conducting a wide-ranging investigation in this case. The proceedings shall be conducted in the direction of Article. 286 Penal Code, that's fraud. The method of action, as the honourable Member has pointed out, is to use the ignorance of older people, not just older people, but, in a very simple and understandable way, to submit an extension offer, for example. the telecommunications service used by that person, and the effect of that is that the person simply signs a contract with the new operator, completely unaware of it. Personal data of these persons are also used. It is very often the case that the contract signed by this person is not left at the place of residence, only the person who offers the service will then inform that he will send the contract back. Contracts are also counterfeited using personal data and their signatures. In general, specific economic operators shall transfer powers and powers to other persons under the agency agreement. They are often natural persons who, in the context of agency agreements and powers of attorneys, contact the victims, such as the mechanism for committing the crime. As I said, these are not only ICT services, but also energy services or health services. Let me give you an example of one of the companies. The subject of the contract was the sale of a device for measuring heart rate parameters, an EKG, which, through a telephone connection to the helpline and then a doctor in this company, was to convey a message about the condition, the correctness of the heart function of the person holding the camera. As I have pointed out, this is the 700 cases that will be investigated in this particular prosecutor's office in order to establish a mechanism for committing a crime, establish personal links and identify all persons responsible for committing a crime. At present, 14 people have been charged in this particular procedure. This is, of course, the beginning of the procedure, because as I have pointed out, the remaining proceedings in this area will be examined. And so, in addition to my statement, the element of deception is that you are simply presenting to this person an alleged annex to the agreement which is in force and which the person has signed earlier. This is not an annex, it is a new agreement with a completely different content, very often these agreements are counterfeited. That's all I can say. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about what the Ministry intends to do to protect Polish consumers from entrepreneurs exercising EU freedoms, often being Cypriot or Maltese companies, which are probably illegal in possession of personal data collections on the basis of which they later type their potential clients, and in fact are their potential victims. If we are talking about Polish citizens, the situation is still fairly simple, but how does the Ministry want to protect Polish consumers, Polish citizens from such unfair foreign, EU entrepreneurs? That's one thing. Secondly, is the Ministry of Justice planning to reform the Consumer Rights Act? She assumes the possibility of withdrawal from the contract. True, the Civil Code also lays down contract rules [[♪ The bell ♪]] While the practice shows that these rules do not seem to be fully effective and do not protect consumers as they should protect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u31	Thank you very much. And I ask you to answer that question, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u32	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, I wanted to make it clear that my answer concerns the activities of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. Within the Ministry, as regards the Ministry's project, I am absolutely not entitled to provide such an answer. Secondly, in this respect I have no knowledge, because the National Public Prosecutor's Office is not an authority which prepares any draft legislation, of course in a constitutional sense, because it may propose, but in this respect. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice as a constitutional body. On the other hand, I would also like to provide supplementary information on the use of personal data, because this element may have been lacking in my statement. This procedure is also covered by the question of accessing personal data. For example, the issue of the illegal provision of personal data to one of the known mobile operators has been revealed, and I will deliberately not exchange this operator for obvious reasons. Therefore, this is not only the case for Article. 286, but also criminality - because we have a criminal provision in the Personal Data Protection Act - to make personal data available without the consent of these persons. I am very sorry, sir, but in this respect, if you say so... It's to the Ministry of Justice directly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u33	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u34	Marshal, I'm so sorry, Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u35	Yes? Member Paweł Grabowski: Here's one more thing I wanted... Mr. District Attorney, I fully understand, but I have a question addressed to the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General. Therefore, if possible, I would ask the Ministry to reply in writing. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Halicki and Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Platform, on the violation of the article. 63. 2 of the Local referendum Act of 15 September 2000 - no publication in the Provincial Official Journal of referendum results. Please, Mr Jan Grabiec.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u36	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question concerns referenda issues related to the draft law on the system m.st. Warsaw, which was submitted in the Seym by a group of members of the PiS. This bill caused huge controversy among the inhabitants of Podwarszawskie communes, also in Warsaw itself. Three municipalities planned to hold a referendum. Unfortunately, the Mazowiecka voivode, in my opinion exceeding his competence, prevented the holding of a referendum in Warsaw and in Podkowie Lesna. It took place in Legionów and the result was clear: at a 47-percent turnout of 95 to 5 - residents clearly opposed the project concerning the change in the status of the Podwarszawskie communes. These activities of the voivode earlier in blocking referendums in other municipalities are now being extended as regards the possibility of ending the referendum procedure on Legionov. The Mazowieckie voivode refused to fulfil his statutory obligation for several days, namely to publish in the official journal the results of this referendum, referring to the provisions concerning the publication of normative acts, erroneously pointing out that the referendum protocol is a normative act, not applying the relevant provisions, imposing legal standards on the municipality which the municipal referenda committee cannot comply with, because the provisions of the Local referendum Act do not allow it to do so. This pressure from the voivodship, understood in the context of previous attempts to block referendums in other municipalities, is an out-of-law action. In this situation, the voivode should be called upon to comply with the law. Although the voivode yesterday published a referendum protocol on Legionov, but at the same time in a statement This is what the legionary self-government is saying: it calls on the legionary self-government to comply with the law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, shouldn't the Mazowieckie Voivodeship be called upon to respect the law and respect the distinctness and independence of the municipality?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u37	Thank you very much. The questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Jarosław Zieliński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! The Mazowiecka Voivode, despite his formal flaws, managed to cope with it, but unfortunately, the city commission did not manage to deal with it. As we know, based on the public interest and the well-being of the inhabitants, he decided to publish on 5 April under item No.3252 in the Official Journal of the Mazowieckie Voivodship the referendum protocol which took place a few days ago. According to Art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 20 July 2000 on the publication of normative acts and certain other legal acts, the basis for publication in the Official Journal of a normative act or other legal act is an act in the form of an electronic document... The Member does not listen, that is, he knows everything and asks. I'm sorry. ...with a qualified signature... [[I know that recipe, Minister.]] ...electronic by an authority authorised to issue an act. If the Member disputes this provision, please indicate another provision that would apply in this case. [[Another article, Minister.]] There's no other recipe. The governor had to rely on this recipe, this recipe simply binds him. The Voivodeship is a body that upholds the law by local governments, all the more so it must obey the law itself, and it is precisely this law that bound it. In this regard, by letter dated 27 March 2017, the President of the Municipal Commission for Reference Affairs in Legionów presented the Mazowieckie voivodeships - it is a reminder - a protocol on the determination of the results of the municipal referendum ordered on 26 March 2017 in order to announce the result of the referendum in the Official Journal of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship. These documents were submitted in a paper version - I remind you that there was a different rule. Therefore, by letter dated 28 March 2017, the Mazowiecki Voivodeship Office notified the municipal committee that the documents submitted did not comply with the publication requirements for normative acts or other acts. Despite the passing of the next days, the Municipal Commission for Reference Affairs in Legionowo did not remedy the shortcomings of formal documents. Therefore, the Mazowiecka voivode, based on the public interest and the well-being of the inhabitants, took steps in replacing the local government to draw up a referendum protocol in a certified electronic version and decided to publish it. Since the chairman of the referendum committee in Legionów did not sign the protocol with a qualified electronic signature, the protocol was certified for compliance with the original in the Voivodeship Office and was subsequently published in the Official Journal of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship on 5 April 2017 under this heading 3252. However, the decision to certify the protocol in the voivodship office does not change the fact that the obligation to prepare documents properly for publication is on the authority directing the act for publication, in this case on the Municipal Commission for Reference Affairs in Legionów, not on the publication body, i.e. on the Mazowieckie voivodeship, which results directly from the sound of the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the publication of normative acts and certain other acts. Now I will briefly refer to the words of the Member that the voivode was blocking or disturbing the referendum in Legionów... [[In the horseshoes.]] ...sorry, not in Legionów, but in Warsaw and Podkowie Lesna. This is obviously not true, this is innuendo. The vampire is on the guard of the law. If these referendum projects did not comply with the requirements of law, the voivode could not remain idle and therefore annulled the referendum in Warsaw and Podkowie Lesna. If the Member is interested in more details on why, I will answer. The local referendum on the establishment, merger, division and abolition of the municipality and the establishment of its borders can only be carried out on the initiative of the residents, a group of at least 15 inhabitants of the municipality. It is unacceptable to hold such a referendum at the request of the commune council, and this was the case with the reference proposal of the commune council. Warsaw and the City Council of Podkowa Lesna. Both local authorities referred exclusively to the provisions of the Local referendum Act and omitted the provisions of the Local Government Act. The holding of a referendum at the request of the City Council is incompatible with both of these laws. Questions contained in resolutions of Warsaw, resolutions of the city council in Warsaw... The question was: Are you behind the change of borders of the M.S. Warsaw by joining dozens of municipalities and Podkowy Lesna? That was the question. Are you in favour of joining the city of Podkowa Lesna to M.S. Warsaw? They do not refer, as suggested, to the draft law on the structure of the capital city of Warsaw, to the parliamentary draft law from print no. 1259 - because then it could be treated as a consultative referendum - because this draft law did not introduce a change in the boundaries of the municipality of Warsaw or the municipality of Podkowa Lesna. The municipalities indicated in the draft law, which, together with Warsaw, would create a new metropolitan unit of local government, will also remain if the law enters into force, within unchanged limits. The non-compliance of reference questions with the solutions contained in the draft law is contrary to the rule of law expressed in the article. 2 constitutions. This is linked to the principle of legal certainty and security and trust in law and state. According to these principles, the resolution of municipalities as legal provisions [[♪ The bell ♪]] they should be formulated in a precise and clear manner, as well as in a language correct manner. Now, Marshal. Two sentences, if you don't mind. The incoherence of the subject-matter of the referendum makes it difficult to determine which actions and bodies the Council should take. Warsaw in case the majority of votes are decided on yes. It is similar in the case of Forest Horseshoes. If there's time, then there's more to it if there's additional questions. But for these reasons, even if briefly discussed, the voivode could not take any other action than the one he had taken.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr Andrzej Halicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Within a minute, I will find it difficult to correct these few lies, because it is the same basis in Legionów and Warsaw. Anyway, that's for the court to decide. I think we'll be waiting for this verdict first and foremost as the source of the law. The governor must not be an active party, must be a neutral body, in this case in relation to the actions that have been taken. He wasn't, and that's what we're talking about. If the voivode writes a justification, it can also not reprimand the legionary office or the legionary self-government, because the committee is not its organ. Moreover, in this case, the voivode misinterprets the entire event because it has an electronic certification obligation. We introduced this requirement ourselves. The Commission does not need to conduct all processes electronically. I'm thinking about her members, and I'm thinking about protocol. One thing or three questions, 'cause I'm not gonna make it. Is it true that the best, most common form of consultation is the referendum? I would like to ask you this question, because this is the best form of consultation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't there gonna be more blocking? Here, too, I would like to ask the Minister's opinion, because I believe that this shameful dispute must be brought to an end. Let's hope it doesn't show up in the future. Finally, one reminder. The governor can't write that this publication doesn't mean accepting or judging the result. The result is known. You're not gonna erase it. 47% attendance indicates a binding result. 95 to 5 - this result was recalled by Mr Grabiec.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u41	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. And I ask the Minister to answer his questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u42	Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! The referendum is a good form of consultation, very good, but this form of consultation must be conducted in accordance with the law. [[Thank you, because we're gonna have a dozen.]] It cannot be conducted above the law or contrary to the law. That's the answer to one of your questions. Question two. Will anyone block, interfere with other referendums? This will never be the case if these referendums are organised in accordance with the rules. Let me remind you that the citizens of hundreds of thousands, even millions, legally applied for referendums, and your coalition, the PO-PSL, rejected these requests by grinding or throwing those hundreds or millions of citizens' signatures in the trash. [[Applause]] [[We've learned our lesson, we've got new leadership.]] So that someone like who, but you, Mr President, on this subject should not speak at all and become wise, because first you have to hit your chest, and it is very hard, until the echo goes until the echo across the Sejm and all over Poland goes. [[Applause]] [[I said, we've learned our lesson, we've got new leadership.]] That's what you should do. However, here the voivode is a guardian of the law, and don't be surprised that she also instructs the local government to obey it. That's his role. He simply cannot close his eyes to the fact that the government is acting illegally, he cannot simply accept it, he cannot accept it. That's the other thing. I think the answer's clear. Remember your actions when everything was legal and you ignored the voices of powerful groups of citizens. As far as Legionowo is concerned, the question was not formulated in the same way as in the case of Horseshoes and m.st. Warsaw. I'll remind you of that question. Are you in favour of m.st. Warsaw as a metropolitan self-government unit, local self-government - here this wording appeared in relation to the parliamentary draft law, which is the background for all this - covered the municipal commune of Legionowo? The Voivode did not see any non-compliance here, so the referendum took place, this referendum was not annulled. [[But the basis is the same - a resolution of the commune council.]] The question was otherwise formulated, Mr President. On the other hand, with regard to the publication of the results, these protocols had to meet the conditions. I explained in response to the first question, Mr Grabc, what it was all about. The Voivodeship, as you can see, carried out activities as a replacement for the local government because it was the task of the municipal referenda committee to properly prepare documents for publication. The governor may not publish documents which are not submitted in accordance with the rules. He's done some work. It is about confirming the conformity of this document, that is, the protocol, which provides for the results. These results as results of the consultative referendum are not called into question. This vote has been noted as an important voice of the inhabitants, but this is a consultative referendum. It is not binding on anyone either, but no one is questioning the outcome of the referendum itself, [[♪ The bell ♪]] , it was only about the manner of publication of the document which was incorrectly prepared for publication by the municipal referenda committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u43	Thank you very much. Let's move on to question five. The fifth question is asked by Mr Ewa Malik, Mr Dariusz Starzycki and Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club, on the degree of implementation of the pilotage of the first pillar of the programme, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. The first question is asked by Mr Dariusz Starzycki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In connection with the implementation of the programme for a few months, I would like to ask the Minister about the degree of progress of the programme. At the same time, I ask the question: What is the key to choosing the location of housing investments carried out under the first pillar of the housing package +? What conditions must be met by the person who wants to build housing under this scheme? Is it possible to determine the criterion of prioritizing the acquisition of housing under the scheme to single-parent mothers who do not receive an allowance under the "500+' scheme and whether it is planned to introduce priority criteria in the acquisition of housing for certain groups of persons, e.g. Raising children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u45	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, answers the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen! In order to carry out the pilotage under the market pillar of the package, the housing + It was designated by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction by BGK Real Estate, the public limited company, and it is responsible for organising the investment process - the construction of the investment model, the analysis of legal risks, the analysis of potential directions of investment, the search for partners. Right now, at this stage, every municipality that reports to BGK Real Estate... On the bgk.pl website there is a application form, all municipalities can register there. Of course, because it is a market programme, the municipality must, in agreement with the Management Board of BGK Real Estate, determine the conditions for the implementation of the investment. The size of the investment is taken into account because it also needs to be economically balanced, so in some small towns there is a problem that building dozens of... There is a threshold in terms of the possibility of financing, it probably reaches about 50 apartments, so in some small municipalities there may be a problem with the implementation of this as part of the pilotage and later with the target implementation. On the other hand, we are also introducing other instruments in the form of funding for municipalities. At the moment there is a permanent law on social housing support after the committee - the municipalities will receive funding and will be able to build, even these small municipalities, in smaller towns, apartments available to people who cannot get these apartments on the market. At the moment there are almost 70 letters of intent signed on land with an area of more than 220 hectares, which today gives almost 20,000. apartments to build. And almost every week more letters are signed. About 20 investment agreements with municipalities will be signed in a moment, where the implementation process will begin. In two municipalities this implementation is already taking place, in one at the end of this year we already expect the first apartments to be given. Only that this programme will be intensified next year. Those who conduct investment processes or know about them know that from the idea to implementation in the current legal state and with the technical resources that are in Poland, it takes about 3 years. We want to do this faster, because already this year, I say, the first apartments will be handed over. There are also contracts signed with private investors. As far as private investors and developers are concerned, we have two such agreements signed at BGKN, BGK Real Estate. Private investors also offer their land and such implementation will be possible. We are finishing our work on the creation of the land fund, the land bank, where the land of the State Treasury, on which we will also want to build. As far as performance is concerned, it will be those companies that will offer the best price and best quality and a good deadline for implementation. We assume... As far as these investments are concerned which are currently being carried out, local companies have won, so that it is also beneficial that these funds remain in the local market, local workers are working and this profit will remain in the municipality or in the city where the investment is being carried out. I think that this will also be beneficial, and here both as part of the piloting and later ultimately this formula is to be implemented. About 70 entrepreneurs came forward with various forms of modern construction, modern materials, it is about construction and energy efficient, and passive. There is a competition announced by BGK, we want to implement several such projects, which will be implemented later, also thanks to the scale and application of some modular construction, because we do not rule out that it will be possible to reduce costs and speed up these projects. As far as priority criteria are concerned, we are finishing work on the Land Fund Act, that's what we call it. We foresee that anyone who wishes to use the State Treasury land or an accelerated form of implementation in order to speed up this implementation will have to apply the criteria in particular to persons or families, both individuals and families who raise at least one child, a disabled child. So that there will be no additional criterion here, whether it will be someone covered by the 500+ programme or not - if he raises a child, it will take precedence. We also want those who have the Polish Charter to have priority in obtaining these apartments, as well as those who want to change their place of residence because of their place of work or their education. But it's called. queueing or priority rules will then apply if these willing are more than offered at a given stage of housing. It may be that the municipality will decide, and such municipalities are, where will be 200, 300 or 400 apartments, they can sometimes, in a smaller municipality, so to speak, satisfy [[♪ The bell ♪]] All needs. In fact, anyone who meets the requirements - I am finishing up, your marshal - means there is in this financial compartment that he earns too much to get a communal apartment from the commune and at the same time earns too little to get a loan from the bank, he has no credit rating, and in the first place these people will get it. On the other hand, if there is the possibility that, so to speak, there will be more of these apartments, then the person who earns more will also be able to get such an apartment, there is no limit either on the amount or on the age limit, whereas practically the only limitation is to have any funds to pay this rent. We assume that it will amount to approx. 10 PLN, but we already know that in some municipalities even 10 PLN for 1 m2 of this basic rent could be too much. Thus, if construction costs can be reduced, perhaps even this rent may be lower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. And the second question is asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the program "Living+" regarding the needs of people with disabilities, non-barrier housing, so that they are equipped with architectural amenities that improve the quality and comfort of life of people with disabilities. It is about creating and planning non-promotional architecture, installing the right doors, designing beams, making ceilings in such a way that in the future, without the need for reconstruction, an elevator can be installed there, creating bathrooms that allow people with disabilities to maneuver freely, designing wide corridors, or assembling contacts, switches at the level of 40 and 120 cm above the floor. This is extremely important. Disabled people report this important problem to make it in this program [[♪ The bell ♪]] This item is Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u49	Thank you very much. And again, I ask Minister Kazimierz Smolinski to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u50	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! We very much want housing for people with disabilities to be available as part of this programme. Those investors who will want to implement these investments as part of this programme, i.e. the land to be offered or carried out, if they propose in their offer that there will be such apartments - and they will primarily be preferred as part of the financing by BGK Real Estate - if such an offer is, it will be financed first. As far as this competition is concerned, for architectural projects, we will also prefer those projects which will include such apartments, without these architectural barriers and with all the facilities that you have spoken of. Because there is indeed a big problem in the housing market, the one that operates, but also which is still being implemented in this commercial character, that there are no offers available for disabled people, especially those that move in wheelchairs, but there are also people who, without a wheelchair, have problems with entering the building itself and moving. It's a matter of these widths and so on. As much as we want such apartments in every building to be available, if, of course, such a demand will be available, because not every town will have people with disabilities who will meet these requirements - that is, some income must have, and at the same time they are not, so to speak, very rich people. Those who already have an apartment, and would like to replace it, for such persons there will be no priority, for those who do not have satisfied housing needs. As far as these preferences and the barriers that you have been talking about are concerned, we will take them into account throughout the programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Adam Woźniak, Mr Lech Kołakowski and Mr Marcin Duszek, the Law and Justice Club, on how to take action in connection with the increased wave of exchange of personal evidence to be expected this year. The question is addressed to the Minister of Digitization. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Wozniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u52	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2007 there was a massive exchange of booklets of personal evidence for plastic, with which we have already become accustomed, very comfortable. In the near future, millions of Poles end with the term of validity of these documents, as they pass the 10-year period of validity. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the obligation to exchange an identity document also applies to a situation where there has been a change in the data contained in the proof, a change in the name, of course there is an exception to the change in the name of the authority which issued the proof, if someone has an older version of the proof, whether there has been a change in the place of check-in, a change in the face of the holder of the proof to the extent that it makes it difficult or impossible to identify it, and if there has been a loss or damage to the document. Then we have this exchange or the release of a new document. Therefore, taking into account all potential applicants, including those who reach their teenage age this year, it is estimated that in 2017 about 8 million citizens may request a new identity card. The increase in the number of evidence that loses validity will start from August, the most will be in October this year, and will last until the end of the year. In addition, studies carried out in 2016 show that citizens asked to mention three things that they wanted to be able to do online, in the first place indicated the possibility of exchanging a document. Consequently, there is a real danger that there will be a paralysis of the offices, which will soon begin to come to large conclusions. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what action will be taken by the Ministry of Digitalization in view of the increased wave of exchange of personal evidence that is to be expected this year. How is the Ministry of Digitalization prepared to handle the application process on-line? Will it be easier to apply for evidence online? In the previous version, the internet application was not easy to read and understand. When will there be new mDocuments, a set of documents: ID card, driver's license, vehicle card and OC insurance available by mobile phone? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u53	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Zagórski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, our priority in general is to introduce procedures that reduce bureaucratic burdens, especially in relation to the office - the citizen. Of course, the best way is to introduce digital solutions, digitalising services in public administration. And that is the position, and that is the idea of the government and the minister of digitalisation from the very beginning. The first symbol of this was the 500+ application process, which over the course of a few weeks was largely managed by the electronic channels. For these services to be efficient, this requires a whole process and a series of actions. Two are basic. Firstly, it requires the provision of adequate services with a high level of convenience for citizens, but this is linked to the process of giving citizens a trusted profile, as most of these services are made available via e-PUAP, although of course also other service portals of public administration. The process of providing and improving services is carried out in the first place in relation to matters that concern the largest number of citizens, and without a doubt the exchange of identity cards is such a service. Indeed, I confirm that citizens expect this, and I confirm that as many as 8 million citizens are likely to apply for a new identity card this year. This is an organisational process on the one hand, because it affects the authorities of the municipalities issuing this evidence. And here both the municipal offices and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, which coordinate this process, are aware of this process and are preparing. Part of this preparation is the process of improving the functioning of public registers. On the other hand, when it comes to the Ministry of Digitalization, we have focused on improving the quality of preparing this e-service, which is to apply for a new identity card, because it is precisely in the case of the exchange of identity cards that the electronic implementation of this process instead of facilitation caused problems, and this caused problems at the level of the authorities, because incomplete applications had to be prescribed to the authorities, as well as at the level of the citizen who, despite the fact that he applied electronically, had to come to the office later to correct this proposal, which caused that interest in this service, although it was large, did not translate in practice into the possibility of implementing it. And there was a low popularity of the trusted profile, because only a few hundred thousand people from this profile, about 400 thousand. people, had a trusted profile, most of which were officials. So we have two tasks ahead of us, both are in progress. When it comes to disseminating a trusted profile, this process is ongoing, and I'm about to tell you how it translates into specific numbers. On the other hand, with regard to the service related to the request for the exchange of identity cards, the process of revitalizing this application at this stage has been completed in such a way that we have added some key functionalities to improve its usefulness and eliminate all the errors I mentioned earlier. Firstly, several validation elements have been introduced: validation of the maturity of the form fields - it will not be possible to submit a form without filling in, the form will not be sent if no such fields are filled out, sections as for the person for whom the proof will be issued are the basic address data - validation of the annex, which is a photograph, so that the form is not active, so that it can be sent when the photograph is not included, and validation of the photograph itself, so that it meets all the requirements that are provided for the proof, and finally validation of the signature, but also the alert in the absence of the second name, because this was not also often forgotten by the citizens. First of all, we promote this service through appropriate banners on e-PUAP and the citizen's website.gov.pl, but most importantly the same form is simpler, more comfortable, more intuitive, which translates into effects. I would like to say that we launched this new functionality in February, a new formula for this form, and since then 5300 applications have been submitted via the Internet. In comparison, 14 thousand have already been submitted this year. requests for exchange of identity cards by electronic means, i.e. half the number of applications submitted throughout 2016. As far as the number of people with a trusted profile is concerned, this figure is increasing, at the end of 2016 it was 630 thousand. The number of people and every year, every month, increases by 60,000. persons who have a trusted profile. We hope that this number will increase at this rate. It seems that at this stage this process is advanced as far as possible, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and we are very ready to support this process, which will still be a fundamental process, that is, the exchange process through the presence of the office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u55	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next... Excuse me, Mr Lech Kołakowski is asking an additional question. I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question concerns the possibility of including information about the blood group in personal evidence. In connection with accidents of various kinds, human life threats often require immediate medical attention to victims of these accidents or other events. This applies to both communication accidents and other accidents, e.g. at work or other random events. This medical treatment must be given efficiently, rapidly with blood administration or transfusion. The lack of information in the personal documents on the blood group often leads to difficulties in providing medical assistance or even death in the event of an accident. It should be remembered that after the accident, these are the first moments of decision about life or death. Therefore, Minister, it would be a good idea to make a mandatory and widespread annotation of the blood group into personal evidence. Minister, how do you see the possibility of identifying a blood type? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In personal evidence, permanent identification of the blood type of the people of our country? Thank you. Maybe I'll add it by looking at my I.D. Minister, there's a place to put the blood type so needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u57	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Minister Marek Zagórski to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u58	I confirm that this possibility, when it can be realised, will certainly be useful, very practical and necessary to citizens. In order for us to accomplish this, there are some things that need to be done. First of all, we need to change the visualization or the pattern of the identity card. Right now, even though there really is a physical place, there isn't one when it comes to the form itself. This possibility will occur when we introduce new evidence with an electronic layer. I'm sure we'll pass on that request, but that's not enough. For this to work and for this to be effective and effective, it should be integrated into public registers. So it should be possible to take this information from a register where such data would be collected. The records of the Minister of Health are, of course, the basis for this. I think I'm sure it would prefer to include this element. But it's not that simple, unfortunately, that we're just going to type it in. On the other hand, I would like to come back because I did not have time to answer the question about mDocuments, which Mr Wozniak asked in the first part. The process of implementation of mDocuments is underway. He will be divided into several stages. It will consist primarily of the possibility of displaying document data on the access devices of the administration services, the same as on the documents. First of all, it will be an ID card, then a driver's license, registration and compulsory vehicle insurance document. This process should be implemented by the end of this year. The pilot should be implemented, probably in June, and within 2 months we should come to the High House with a bill that will enable it to do so. However, the next stages will already be based on applications and we will gradually add documents that will already be in a more advanced form, in the form of applications for smartphones. These will be very different documents, both mandatory, basic documents, such as identity cards, and this will be in the first place, as well as documents such as documents. Student ID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Jacek Kurzepa, Jacek Świat and Michał Jach, the Law and Justice Club, on the plans of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping regarding investments in the river trough of the Oder related to the need to raise bridge levels on the river, on the example of Krosn Odrzański. Please, Mr Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As an inhabitant of Lubuskie land, representing the interests of my constituents, and at the same time as an inhabitant of Krosn Odrzański, I ask you about the plans of your Ministry to regulate the Oder River, improve the possibilities of its fertility and economic, including tourism, exploitation. We, all the people of the Oder, always inseparable from its course, dynamics, see how much climate change also affects our river. It is an important element not only of alternative communication but also of economic development, which it has served for centuries. The question therefore refers to the Ministry's planned investments in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u61	Thank you very much, sir. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Minister Jerzy Materna, answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Professor! In April 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) The Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has drawn up a document on the development plan for inland waterways in Poland for the years 2016 and 2020 with a view to 2030, which was adopted on 14 June 2016 by the Council of Ministers. This document sets out directions for the development of inland waterway transport in Poland. The consequences of the measures adopted by the Ministry were the ratification by President Andrzej Duda on 6 March 2017 of the AGN Agreement, namely the European Agreement on Central Inland Waterways on International Meaning. Poland, as a member of the AGN Agreement, undertakes to ensure on the waterways covered by the Agreement navigation conditions meeting the criteria applicable to inland waterways of international importance in the so-called. Class E, corresponding to at least class IV sailing. Currently, the Ministry is involved in preparing the tender documentation necessary for the development of a feasibility study for the Odrzaska Waterway. The Ministry's plans set out in the document "Assumptions to plans for the development of inland waterways in Poland' include: the achievement of an international class of navigability in the Oder, on the Odrzaska Waterway and its inclusion in the European Waterway Network, TEN-T. The first step in implementing this priority is the elimination of the so-called "defence." bottlenecks, i.e. places that restrict inland navigation. In some cases, narrow throats include infrastructure crossing inland waterways, including bridges whose clearance over the sailing route is too small. It should be stressed that the Minister responsible for water management is now responsible for maintaining inland waterways, including ensuring adequate clearances under bridges. It is now the Minister of the Environment. Currently, water administrations in cooperation with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping carry out tasks concerning the reconstruction of five bridges on the Odrzaska Water Road. The reconstruction of the bridge indicated by Mr Krosno Odrzański is carried out as part of the task of: The Oder regulation in the section from the Lower Bank to the mouth of Nysa Łużycka in the scope of: Renovation and modernization of the regulatory structure of Oder flowing freely - reconstruction and modernization of the regulatory structure, in order to adapt the section of Oder from Malczyc to the mouth of Nysa Łużycka to the third class of the water road. The project is indicated in the flood protection project of the Oder and Vistula basin and the financial resources for the performance of the task come from, among others. from the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and Environment of the 2014-2020 World Bank and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe. Currently chosen by the Regional Water Management Board in Wroclaw, the consultant develops the documentation necessary for the reconstruction of some bridges on Odra and Warta, including the bridge in Krosno Odrzański. The information obtained from the Regional Water Management Board shows that in the fourth quarter of 2019 the development of the necessary documentation for the implementation of this investment is to be completed, while according to the agreed timetable the reconstruction of the bridge should be completed by 2023. So much for the specifics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u63	Thank you very much. Please, an additional question - Mr Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u64	I cordially thank you, Minister, for the effort you are making personally, including as an inhabitant of Lubuskie land, in the affairs of the communities of cities and communities located in the Oder River. We appreciate that very much. I would also like to draw your attention, Minister, to what you have been gracious to say, namely the need for some complementarity in the inter-ministerial arrangements of the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Infrastructure. And this is another question, which is complementary, about this agreement or these agreements, so that possibly the laying of a bridge on a new level is also correlated with changes in traffic lines, roads that lead to these bridges, because sometimes it can happen that the bridge is beautiful, new, and the access roads are in terrible condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u65	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister Jerzy Materna.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! As you said, yes, of course, there is a steering committee that does this, including. our Ministry, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, the Ministry of the Environment - we are correcting all these new investments that are being created - of course they have a duty to cooperate, so that the new bridges that will be built and will certainly be... We'll keep an eye on it. I will add that it will be sent to the Sejm any moment now by Water Law, which will give us competence. And that's all I said before - we had to work with the Minister of the Environment - all these investments will now go to our department as they should be. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction has the General Directorate for Roads and Motorways, the railway sector has PLK, and with us there will be something like the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, a resort that will simply plan and implement it, so as to make time with these projects above all. It is true that there are no large funds in this 2014-2020 issue, because there is only 1 billion, but I would like them to be used. And today, when it comes to talking to the Ministry of the Environment, I'm not hiding that there's a lot of backlogs. We're gonna do everything we can to speed this up, but we've got an intermediate instrument that we can't do anything but ask. But I hope that any moment now, this month, the Sejm will be visited by the Water Law, which will give us all these competences, so that we can speed up, that Odra after 2022 may not be in the fourth grade yet, but to be at all distances, from Szczecin to Gliwice, sailing. That's our intention. Of course, in the meantime, we are making all these new investments, like airlocks, others we are adapting to the fourth grade, but all this requires even more investment. We're talking about Odra's expense, and the study will show us exactly what we're doing. This is in the order of over PLN 30 billion - the entire investment in Odra, including the Silesian Channel. The Oder will be even more used because all Małopolska, Silesia will, you can say, be included in the Odrzaska Waterway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Marek Suski, Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Anna April, Dariusz Bąk and Andrzej Czestowniak, the Law and Justice Club, on the planned liquidation of 250 beds in the hospital in Radom. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. And you are the first question to be asked by Marek Suski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have a question about the planned by the Management Board of the Mazowiecki Specialist Hospital in Radom, under Marshal Adam Struzik and the PO-PSL coalition, restructuring a facility that raises legitimate concerns among staff and residents who are afraid of limiting the availability of medical services. From the knowledge provided by the hospital board: with 853 beds, which are currently available to residents in the hospital, it is planned to eliminate almost 250, exactly 248 beds, which makes up almost 30% of beds. It should be noted that the number of beds removed is the same as often in some county hospitals throughout the hospital. In this situation, with the huge territorial scope of the Mazowiecki Specialist Hospital, which treats not only residents of Radom and the surrounding districts - we have patients also from all over the country - the planned liquidation poses a huge threat to the health and life of patients. The restructuring of the facility also assumes a reduction of about 80 posts, mainly average medical staff, about 70 people, and 11 doctors, which will also unfortunately directly affect the quality and quantity of medical services provided in the hospital. In this situation, we are asking the Minister whether the planned restructuring is safe for the inhabitants, because it is a huge threat to us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this case, please intervene and respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u69	Thank you, sir. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Piotr Gryza for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u70	Dear Marshal! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! Mazowiecki Hospital Specialist sp. z o.o. operates in the form of a commercial law company. 100% of the share in the share capital of the company is owned by the Marshal's Office of the Mazowieckie Voivodship. In this context, it may be worth to say that in the draft law which has already been adopted by the Senate on the basis of the criteria relating to the security system, on the basis of the criteria which are in this draft law, the hospital currently meets the criteria for qualification to the level III, i.e. de facto all the profiles and branches that the hospital carries out will be financed, including the rheumatological profile, which is attached to the benefits under the relevant provision of this draft law. Similarly to the second large hospital in Radom, the voivodship hospital im. Chałubinski, who also meets the criteria of hospital III on the basis of the data that are currently available. We don't have official information on transformations. The Minister of Health sent appropriate letters to all entities, i.e. to the Marshal of the Voivodeship, to the President of the Management Board of the Company, also to the President of the City. Only when we know concrete - not only based on certain media conditions - will we be able to respond to restructuring plans. Similarly, the National Health Fund or the regional office does not have information. Then we will only be able to say whether there is a risk of access to healthcare services or not. It should be noted that the potential of the hospital is not fully exploited. The media is talking about a change related, for example, to the rheumatology department, which is being used fully - from the available information. Therefore, only after receiving details of this restructuring will we be able to respond to this and take some action if, of course, we believe that such action is justified. It should also be remembered that changes in the structure and activity of the hospital are related to the governing body, or actually the owner of this hospital, because it is a company with the o.o., i.e. the Marshal's office of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship. Once we get the right information, already confirmed, then we will be able to respond accordingly, using the right legal instruments, if, of course, we consider such movements to be legitimate, and these two bodies are certainly the voivodship office and the voivodship branch of the National Health Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mrs Anna April to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! There's another hospital in Radom. In addition to the Mazovian Specialist Hospital there is Radom Specialist Hospital, which also has a large number of beds - more than 600, for which Radom is the building organ. We are afraid that in connection with the liquidation of these 250 beds in the hospital in Mazowieckie, the wave of patients and the burden of admission to the hospital will shift to the Radom hospital im. Chalubinski. So I have a question for you. Can Radom Specialist Hospital count on increased funding, because we fear that the Mazowieckie company is hoping to improve its financial situation on the basis of a lump sum that it is expected to receive, similar to 2015 with a reduced number of beds, while [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is such a danger that most patients will now go to the Radom hospital with such funding as in 2015. Is it possible to increase the funds, the money pool for the Radom hospital?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u73	Thank you very much, Member. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! As I mentioned, this second large voivodship hospital, which also meets... [[City, county.]] Yeah, but he's called the voivodship, although his lead organ is the president of the city. [[No, it's not called voivodship, it's called radom.]] Isn't his name? I'm sorry. The point is, this is a big hospital in Chałubiński, right? He's the one we're talking about. It also meets the eligibility criteria for the third degree hospital, so all the profiles and branches that are currently funded will also be funded in the new system. To answer your question, it must be borne in mind that the first settlement period in 2017 will cover three quarters, so the number of benefits will be verified during that settlement period. In addition, only part of the benefits is included in the lump sum. As far as part of the benefits are concerned, there is separate funding under the draft regulation, so this is also a matter of the agreement between the payer and the provider of benefits. Moreover, in the case of temporary non-functioning of certain areas of the hospital or a change in the scope of the law, it is possible to correct the lump sum. So these are the instruments that can be used in this situation. On the other hand, it does not seem possible to me that the hospital we are talking about here, the Mazowiecki Specialist Hospital, wanted to reduce the number of patients, because it is simply he who receives compensation for these patients, which will also affect what contract he will receive in the future, and it will be from 1 January 2018, because on the basis of the performance of the contract in the 4th quarter of 2017, which will be the first settlement period, will be built a lump sum next settlement period, so he must also take into account and receive patients. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Marcin Kierwiński and Mariusz Witczak, the Civic Platform, on the tender for the supply of medium-sized aircraft to the most important people in the country. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. The first question is asked by Marcin Kierwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u76	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You may feel that where the Ministry of National Defence led by Minister Macierewicz starts some sort of bargaining procedure, there are always some problems, there are always questions about transparency, honesty, transparency. This tender we're talking about, which is the middle-class bid for VIP planes, is a crown example of that. The KIO has recently issued a ruling in which it is very clear that Polish law has been violated, public procurement procedures have been violated, but it is a significant amount of PLN 2.5 billion from public money. None of us will question the validity of this purchase, but the procedure you have adopted, what is going on around this procedure, asks questions about the transparency, fairness and transparency of this procedure. If you're writing down gentlemen, the Ministry is writing down a tender, then this tender cancels three weeks before the last date of the money's being issued, then you choose one tender from your own hands, it must raise the highest doubts. Hence our questions. First, we would like to ask: Who, and on what basis, pointed out one possible type of aircraft to be purchased in this proceeding? After all, we know that there are similar aircraft of other manufacturers, which also meet this original specification. Who, and on what basis, selected one tenderer without a tender and agreed to a price which was abnormally different from those offered on the market? Did anyone analyze the question of the catalog price of the plane you chose? These are questions that we need to get answers to in the name of transparency when spending PLN 2.5 billion of public money in a very unclear procedure, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which you have proposed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u77	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Minister Wojciech Fałkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer on behalf of the Minister and the Ministry of National Defence. I want to say that there are two questions that are practically forcing a repetition of the answers, so please excuse me if I leave something for the second answer or if I repeat some of the explanations at the moment. In the opinion of the Ministry and the persons conducting this tender, nothing undermines the integrity of the operation, i.e. I consider the question of the fairness of this tender to be abusive and I say that there are no grounds for making such suggestions at this point in time. On the other hand, I welcome the question of transparency to be clarified. Of course, this is necessary and important. I would therefore like to say that the date on which the proceedings were opened was the transmission of a contract notice to the Official Journal of the European Union for publication. Thus, the procedure was conducted in one of the most competitive modes provided for in the Public Procurement Law, i.e. in the negotiation procedure with an announcement. In the open to the whole aviation market - I stress this - the proceedings were submitted by four entities: the Glomex consortium with Lufthansa, Megmar Logistics, Boeing Company and Aerospace International Group with the Polish entity. In the course of the proceedings, other parties were asked questions, e.g. by Embraer, and the application for an extension of the time limit for the submission of tenders in the proceedings, already during the proceedings, was submitted by Airbus. The purchaser accepted this request and extended the time limit for the submission of tenders by almost 2 weeks. Following the subject-matter assessment, two entities were selected for the further stage of the proceeding: the Glomex consortium with Lufthansa and the Boeing Company. The other participants were excluded. One of them, a contractor, or consortium of Aerospace International Group together with a Polish entity, was regarded by the Military Counterintelligence Service as not reliable enough to exclude a threat to the security of the state. The same contractor appealed to the National Board of Appeal against this decision, which rejected the appeal and thus maintained the position of the Ministry. On the other hand, Megmar Logistics Consulting did not submit the required documents in the proceedings. So there are two left. The qualified entities were negotiated with the aim of discussing the terms of the agreement and, above all, of colliding the technical requirements of the contracting authority with the capabilities of the aviation market. The course of negotiations with contractors was very much similar to the submission of correct tenders by all entities qualified to participate in the proceedings, and the submission of defective offers by all participants constituted circumstances which the contracting authority did not have a basis for foreseeing. The contracting authority took into account the comments submitted by the contractors in the negotiation procedure and intended to conclude an appropriate agreement, provided that only in the proceeding were tenders submitted correctly. I would like to remind you that the procedure was extended as soon as it was opened. The proceeding was annulled as both lodged on 9 March this year. offers contained formal errors, i.e. the content of the tenders submitted did not correspond to the specifications of the essential terms of the contract. Therefore, conditional offers were submitted. In addition, one of the contractors did not submit the required deposit. Therefore, both offers were rejected. The contracting authority has therefore given due diligence to enable the parties involved in the proceedings to submit correct tenders, so the reason for the situation is not on the part of the Ministry, i.e. the contracting party. In addition, the position of the contractors presented during the negotiations and the comments we submitted and taken into account did not indicate that there was no possibility to submit correct offers. It seemed that everything would be filed in accordance with the regulations and requirements. The defects of these tenders submitted could not be foreseen by the contracting authority. The fact that the competitive procedure was annulled was only due to the fault of the economic operators who submitted the offers to be rejected. The purchaser made good efforts to enable the submission of important offers, and the negotiations conducted, including concessions on our part, i.e. from the contracting party, were significantly consistent with the possibility of submitting important offers, i.e. without legal defects. Failure to enter into an agreement as a result of competitive proceedings would threaten to disrupt the financing of the entire programme, the lack of delivery of aircraft within the scheduled deadlines, in fact a delay of several years, and inconsistencies in the measures already taken in the area of the entire VIP fleet recovery plan. It was the urgency of the award of the contract, not the technical specification of the aircraft B 737-800, that was the main condition for selecting the award procedure. At the same time, at the end of this speech, I would like to remind you that the whole procedure continued - assuming that we started it immediately after we took over - 16 months, not 96 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr Mariusz Witczak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u80	Minister! 16 months and a choice out of hand, it's not logical. Minister, it is not a question of your belief that the procedure has been properly carried out, but simply the National Board of Appeal specifically told you that you have broken the law and here let us not move in the sphere of your conviction. That's one thing. Secondly, why did you cut the order criteria in such a way that they only focused on the only model of a particular aircraft, were not taken into account other aircraft which are cheaper and with the same parameters and even higher, as aviation experts indicate in professional writings? That's two. You haven't answered that either, Minister, and you haven't answered that question for a few days now that this case has come up. Have you even considered the optimal option in Western Europe - because it is taxpayers' money? There are rented embraries, you can still use embraries painted in national colors, you could consider buying one or two airplanes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why was it decided about such a rich fleet, which will still be a Polish taxpayer burdening huge costs of living and operating because you are buying Byzantine aircraft?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u81	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Minister Wojciech Fałkowski for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u82	Yes. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I could only smile at the term about Byzantine planes, because the Boeings as the basis of the VIP fleet are actually used by most VIP fleets in the world and practically the choice of medium and long-range aircraft is limited to this between the airbus and the Boeing. That's the first question, the first part of the answer. The second part of the answer is a clear statement that, when it comes to technical requirements, the possibility of discussing this issue is more in technical mode with specialists and in seminary mode, not in the form of a brief response to the plenary room. However, I would like to make it clear that in light of the assumptions that the VIP medium range plane is supposed to respond to, the Boeing Company and its aircraft The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. When it comes to responding to the allegations in the KIO case, I planned to answer the second question. I don't know what I'm supposed to do or repeat it if I have to. Is it later, or is it now giving... [[This is the last moment, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u83	This question is asked by this group of Members and then... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: And now that's not gonna be a question? No. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: Oh, it's together. Excuse me. [[It's together.]] Of course I do. I want to make it clear that on 10 March this year. A new public procurement procedure has been initiated in the form of a free-of-hand contract. Three foreign entities appealed to the National Board of Appeal for the award of the contract by the Contracting Authority in this manner on 17 and 20 March. Acting in accordance with Article. Paragraph 184. 2 of the Public Procurement Law Act, the contracting authority requested the National Board of Appeal to repeal the prohibition on the conclusion of the contract before the decision was given by the Chamber. On 30 March, the National Board of Appeal agreed to the conclusion of the contract and, on the basis of this decision of the National Board of Appeal, a contract was concluded with Boeing a day later. This means that the contract has been concluded in accordance with the law and is valid. On the other hand, on 3 April, the National Board of Appeal issued a judgment indicating that the contracting authority had infringed the provisions of the law on the selection of the contract procedure. In the oral statement, the Chamber stated that the contracting authority had wrongly indicated that there were grounds for the use of the negotiated procedure. The verdict announced on 3 April is not valid. When there is written justification, then we will respond to it and try to justify it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The agreement was concluded on the basis of the agreement given by the National Board of Appeal on 30 March. At that time it was the only law in force, and we used that law. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question was prepared by Members Adam Cyrański, Radosław Lubczyk, Katarzyna Lubnauer, Adam Szłapka, Mirosław Suchoń, Michał Jaros and Paweł Kobyliński. This is a question about the signing of a contract for the delivery of three Boeing 737-800 aircraft for the transport of the most important persons in the country. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. And the question is asked by Mr Radosław Lubczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u84	Dear Marshal! Minister! I don't know if you're listening or...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u85	Listen, you're listening to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u86	He's listening. As Prime Minister Szydło said recently, it is not easy to purchase VIP aircraft. And there's no doubt about that. However, they appear when we talk about the way your ministry is spending out of its public pocket a substantial sum of 2065 million. I am not a lawyer unlike 34 members of the National Board of Appeal, and when these 34 lawyers find that when you negotiate a deal with Boeing, you have acted against public procurement law, in breach of the principles of fair competition, I believe these lawyers. Therefore, I would like to ask the following questions: Do you have any knowledge of how much Poland can cost by lawsuits The Jet Business International and Alert Innovation? According to the media, they can amount to more than several hundred million zlotys. And second question. I would like to ask you if, according to your knowledge, Mr. D. Amato could have had any influence on Boeing's choice, or if that's why you were delaying the last time you bought VIP planes to hide Minister Macierewicz's obscure connections, or if he might have had It's only for the purpose of securing a contract for Boeing and how you have obtained a price below the price proposed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u87	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Wojciech Fałkowski to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Suggestions that there are some vague connections between Minister Macierewicz and Boeing or any other provider are insinuations. And I ask that such wordings and insinuations do not fall within this House, because this is the language of dark, unpleasant places, and we do not want to participate in this, and this seems to be the place where the law and certain principles of political and personal culture should apply. And I strongly protest against such terms and such suggestions made by a Member of the Republic. This is the first case. [[Voice from the room: But to the point, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u89	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Fałkowski: Second thing. Turning to the substance of the case, I would like to make it clear that an agreement has been signed, i.e. the contract was signed at the time of such right when the National Board of Appeal gave its consent. It's been made clear. The consent was officially and formally granted on 30 March. 4 days later, the National Board of Appeal issued a judgment stating that the provisions of the Public Procurement Law had been infringed. The oral justification does not cover the matter and we cannot address it very much because it is neither complete nor clearly justifies the withdrawal from the original ruling of the Chamber. Hence, we wait for written justification and refer to it. Until the final judgment is delivered by the National Board of Appeal, then the original order is in force. This is the first case. Second thing. I would like to say that the use of embraers by lease or lease is extremely expensive, and I would like to make it clear that every government and every authority is trying to buy such aircraft for two reasons. Firstly, this is a real cost reduction, secondly, they are equipped with devices that allow for secret communication, i.e. the possibility of communicating on a classified flight, and at the same time have security features when it comes to passengers themselves. That makes the order special and specially negotiated every time. The third point - I would like to make it clear that the appeals of entities which have not been taken into account are possible to consider and take seriously only when they are submitted in writing and prove that they have lost some significant benefits as a result. They must not only justify it, but also prove it and where it does not exist, it is not worth wondering how much Poland can lose, because neither we nor anyone serious such threats in the world - because these are in fact threats and bangings - does not take into account, so I suggest that they first wait for them to file their lawsuit in writing, if at all, and we will see what the justification is, what is the value of their arguments, because for now this is just an attempt to cause sensation and to draw attention to themselves as far as their business is concerned. I'm not sure I answered everything. I would also like to say that, as a result of the negotiations and the agreement concluded, this value is by PLN 100 million lower than the lowest bid made in the previous annulled proceedings, while maintaining the same technical requirements, and therefore free-of-hand proceedings allowed us at that moment to obtain PLN 100 million savings in relation to the cancelled tender procedure, which for formal reasons had to be annulled in the light of the applicable law. Moreover, more favourable warranty conditions have been obtained in this agreement, faster delivery times; new aircraft will be in 2020 and not - as previously assumed - one in 2020, the other in 2021, so the delivery of one of these aircraft has been accelerated, the third. These are already specific, technical issues, but they are summarised in the statement that there is a negotiated additional period of support for the operation of aircraft, i.e. not only the service and not only training, but also the current technical supervision. This means that the chosen mode proved to be much more effective than the competitive mode. Let me remind you: a reduction in the price and three substantive issues that have been better achieved. It should be stressed that, in the case of such contracts, the price is mainly influenced by the special equipment of aircraft, the system of aircraft protection and defence - I did not mention that, but that is what I want to stress now - special communications, including classified ones, and military equipment, which is also difficult to talk about here at the moment, because these are matters and technical and also classified. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In no way can the prices of such equipped aircraft be compared with those of commercial or passenger aircraft. These are two completely different worlds and two different operating rules on the aviation market. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u90	Additional question - Mr Paweł Kobyliński. You're welcome. And I welcome you to this part of the sitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u91	Welcome, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, You said in one of your speeches here that the urgency of buying was more important than the technical parameters. Are we to mean that we bought not what was best, but what was available? Is that what we're supposed to mean? Another question: How is this purchase to modernise the Polish army? In connection with the release of probably PLN 2 billion, can we count on some offset from Boeing, as it is always negotiated as part of the purchase of arms or equipment of the army? Tell me again what this used aircraft is like, how old he is, where he served, how many hours he has left, or will also be covered by the manufacturer's warranty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u92	You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! There is no here, Mr President, to counter the action of speedy and urgent resolution of the matter from technical requirements. There was no such opposition, and if this impression came from media information and my information today, then I straighten it out right away. Indeed, we all agree and here there is a cross-party consensus that buying a VIP fleet is an important or even very important and very urgent issue, postponed over the last dozen or dozens of years. Therefore, this Gordian knot should finally be cut and the matter dealt with. I would like to stress that it lasted 16 months, not 96 months, but this is an important difference. However, there was no concession, no change, no waiver in terms of technical requirements. What I said at the end of my previous speech was that these were special aircraft equipped with security and defence, private communications and military equipment, plus all kinds of technical standards belonging to ordinary linear aircraft, that is a matter that was specified in the technical requirements, and we did not give in to any iota. Second thing. As for offset, there is no offset here; it is the law on public procurement, the offset cases were not negotiated during this order. With regard to the question of the quality or performance parameters of the third ordered aircraft, which will be delivered first, precise arrangements are underway at the moment, because it will also be purchased on our order, i.e. its technical parameters and the degree of wear and tear of various parts or parts in terms of the operation of the aeroplane will already be assessed during the technical arrangements. And that's in progress right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u94	Thank you very much. We move on to the next point and question on the obligation to conclude a written contract for the sale of agricultural products between the original producer - the farmer and the trader - the agricultural processor. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Jacek Bogucki. The first question will be asked by Mr Jan Warzech, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u95	Dear Minister, We address you on behalf of farmers and processors on contracts. Although the applicable rules have been in force for 2 years, i.e. the previous government PO-PSL team, from 11 February this year. Directors of the Agricultural Market Agency's field departments may impose penalties of 10% the value of agricultural products acquired without the required or unfulfilled terms of the contract. We are aware that the possibility of applying such sanctions to the buyer stems from the implementation by the Polish government of the provisions of Regulation No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union as regards the development of appropriate contractual relations. The main objective of this legal institution was to strengthen the position of food producers - farmers vis-à-vis processors and trade. And I must at least stress that the objective was most appropriate, because it is in the interest of a weaker entity, that is, farmers, but in practice there have been problems and dissatisfaction between the two parties to contracts. In the opinion of many farmers and processors, these issues not only complicate commercial transactions between the above mentioned. entities, because they introduce new responsibilities, so-called. Paperology, but in fact may cause interest to fall in the purchase by slaughterhouses, dairy stores and large shops of small lots, e.g. Several pigs or small consignments of milk, from smaller agricultural producers. Another problem identified by processors and farmers as severe is the need to sign the relevant contracts in advance, which is extremely burdensome on the dynamic Polish market and often impossible for smaller producers to meet. Minister, would it be unreasonable to amend the Act on the Agricultural Market Agency and introduce such provisions as to exclude the smallest one-off transactions from penalties, e.g. Up to 10,000. Evil or even [[♪ The bell ♪]] Up to 20,000. Evil? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u96	Thank you very much. And I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I would like to inform you that on 3 October 2015 the provisions implementing Regulation No 1308/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council entered into force in the Polish legal order. 2013 under which the obligation to conclude contracts for first delivery to the first buyer was introduced, inter alia. cereals, sugar, dried fodder, hop seeds, tobacco, products processed from milk, milk products, beef, pigmeat, mutton, goats, eggs, meat, etc., and therefore practically all products, agricultural raw materials. According to Art. Article 38q (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply. 2 of that law, where the first buyer is not the processor, the contract between subsequent purchasers shall also be concluded in writing. Thus, these provisions were introduced, adopted in July 2015. They entered into force on 3 October 2015, i.e. during the previous government and the previous coalition. The amendment, which entered into force in February this year, was adopted in December Ub. r., introduced non-contractual sanctions, because from the side of agricultural organisations too we have received requests, signals that contracts are still not concluded, farmers are still not sure that the raw material they produce will find the recipient at a price which was previously established between the parties under conditions that were previously established. I will admit that by introducing these provisions, we had not one signal that the rules adopted in 2015 went too far. There was no indication from farmers or agricultural organisations or processors or any member of the agri-food supply chain that the rules introduced in 2015 should be amended. That's why we didn't change those rules or commas, which were left in that version. Indeed, after the imposition of sanctions, there were indications that the rules were going too far. But I would like to assure you from this point of view that the Agricultural Market Agency under the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development will not punish one farmer, not one Polish entrepreneur, for not concluding a contract if they do not deceive their partner farmer if they do not apply unfair practices. Because that is what this law is meant to do to strengthen the position of the farmer to give the farmer the opportunity to plan production. This also strengthens the whole agri-food sector, because the end result is that the relationship between the participants in this chain is to be organized. So, of course, in view of these opinions, we are examining these provisions more deeply at the moment, and we are preparing changes that will clarify these rules, and they will not make it really difficult for farmers, especially, but also for all those in the chain, to function or, as the Member has said, to prevent the sale of small batches of products at all. But it is important to remember that it is mainly the smaller farmers who have problems with the lack of contracts, but that they are not sure that the agricultural raw materials they produce will find a buyer. The larger ones are generally linked to some customers of fixed contracts. It must be borne in mind that if an agreement has been concluded even earlier and meets the requirements of the Regulation of the European Parliament, it does not need to be re-consigned each time, there is no such obligation. In addition, we in the Act have recorded the possibility to specify the dates for concluding contracts. Such deadlines for the moment have not been imposed by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development for individual agricultural raw materials, and therefore only one provision applies that the contract must be concluded before delivery. There's no time that has to go by. We are aware that for some raw materials this time will have to be determined in the end, because some crops have to be planned in advance for longer, especially industrial crops that cannot find too many customers on the market. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that these provisions will be clarified, and they will be amended to the extent that they have come to us from the comments that have come to us. I am also convinced that these regulations are needed by all parties to supply, participants in the agri-food chain and should operate in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to stabilise the agricultural production market, the agricultural raw materials market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u98	Stay here, Minister, or there will be an additional question. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, also the Law and Justice Club, will ask them. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u99	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for the extensive explanation of the problem that is important for farmers and processors. We also thank the government for promising an amendment here, as if to facilitate these problems. I have a question: When can these changes possibly be counted on? And an additional question: If a small farmer doesn't need this contract, could he write a statement that he's quitting the contract, and will it be honored? Would it be possible to introduce this? Next: Is another agreement justified if there is already a long-term agreement with the same farmer already in force with regard to the Agency and concerning the funds? Because in order to get this percentage increase in funds, you know, there's got to be a multi-annual deal, 80%. Rotations. Do you? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this the second contract for this one-off delivery mandatory? One more thing: it should be noted that the farmer has a contract with the wholesaler for this product, then why again the wholesaler with the bet, if this is the same? Already a farmer is secured by a contract with a wholesaler, then why a wholesaler and a bet? I don't think it's necessary, and it's in force right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u100	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u101	In answer to these questions - we will, of course, exclude from the provisions so unambiguously, although this really comes directly from EU law, direct supplies, agricultural retail, direct sales, so those elements that appear in the relation of the farmer - the consumer. This must be clearly defined. We'll define the concept of producer. Here is an overinterpretation not coming from the interpretation of the Agricultural Market Agency or the Ministry, that further along this chain from the producer to trade also this obligation is introduced. No, it only concerns a certain part of the chain and those products that go into further processing. We meant that there should be no circumvention, that's why these regulations were introduced, the supply chain through the use of intermediaries. Sectors will also be narrowed down to those basic markets where such solutions need to be introduced. Of course, we are still gathering all the comments and in the near future this project, I already have it in the working version, is prepared, will go into internal, inter-ministerial and public consultation arrangements, so that these regulations are adopted in a relatively short time. But I would also like to warn you that a baby should be poured out with a bath, because, as I said, the weakest link in the supply chain is the farmer. We need to protect this farmer skillfully, and we need to support him skillfully. I would not want this to happen, as the Member mentioned, that we allow a farmer to make a declaration that he does not want to conclude a contract, if this statement is not his voluntary declaration, but forced by the purchasers, forced by the words: if you wish to conclude a contract, then I will not buy from you simply, I will buy it if you make such a statement. You have to keep that in mind, too. We are aware of how bad things are in this supply chain, how farmers are deceived, how they are exploited, how many complaints are received by the ministry against dishonest consumers who over the years do not pay for agricultural products delivered, who do not pay for agricultural products delivered for months. You have to try to sort this out. Contracting is one of the elements that has this sphere of order, but it is not panacea, it is not the only solution and it is not the solution without defects. I'm sure they'll be introduced. [[♪ The bell ♪]] solutions of this kind that will protect farmers from unfair recipients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting information on the dramatic situation in Polish agriculture will be considered: failure to respond to the spread of ASF virus and avian influenza, embargo on the export of agri-food products and problems with agricultural land turnover, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u103	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party asked Marshal Marek Kuchciński to ask the Minister of Agriculture Krzysztof Jurgiel to provide information on what he can and intends to do about the deteriorating situation in the Polish countryside - the income situation, the social situation, but above all the market situation, which reflects income on farms. We regret that the Minister is not here, but we will hope that his staff will at least partially respond to these allegations or concerns that we will express. On this occasion, speaking of a difficult and deteriorating situation, it is worth to define the conditions under which we operate today. For some time now, we have been dealing mainly with agricultural matters, human resources laws. This applies to most of the institutions that operate in the area of agriculture, such as the KRUS, agricultural advisory centres, individual agencies. But as you can see from the example of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the area payment system that has not been properly functioning so far - which is shown by the fact that some farmers have received too large advances, too high, and have to pay back, there is no clear position in this respect - these changes have led to the wrong way. This is the foundation of the functioning of agriculture and administration that supports it. But it is also worth paying attention to what you have done so far on general agricultural issues. You brag about the fact that the Land Protection Act has caused the defence of Polish land against redemption by foreigners, but you forget to add that the law that you left behind voted out, actually concretes, cements irregularities that occur in rural areas, or imperfections of Polish agriculture, because it, unfortunately, protects Polish farmers from the possibility of expanding, and this is necessary, its farms based on both state land and land traded between farmers. [[That's not true.]] This is demonstrated by the precise details of the institutions, such as the notary chambers, which say that the number of transactions per region in Poland has decreased by several to several dozen percent. Another example of your inadequacies in relation to and to the announcements, and what farmers expect, is the ASF and avian influenza. After all, the number of cases of one and the other pathogen found at the time when you function, and the mechanisms that you have adopted to combat, show that this is highly ineffective. For this reason, not only do they lose those who are involved in this production, but also lose the Polish economy in general, because the consequence is to close external markets to imports of animal products from Poland, especially very attractive markets located far away, like Asian markets. We can say here that you're looking for a guilty man. The ones responsible today are either hunters, or there are farmers who carry these pathogens. You impose penalties, you don't let the poultry go out, you put a few thousand penalties on the farmers, if even a few chickens leave the henhouse and go outside, or someone walks into the barn... [[You can release now.]] ...who shouldn't be there. That's what you're good at. You're good at restrictions. On the other hand, you cannot create conditions for this agriculture to function normally and rather we are seeing a regression in the development of exports. It is worth paying attention to the market situation. As if a reflection of these actions, but also of the inefficiency in the international arena, it is that the pace of growth in exports of food products is slowing down so far, from month to month, year to year. This flywheel, which has sprung up in recent years, which has made Polish food very effective, has reached an increasing number of customers on external markets, starts to slow down as a result of That's what I'm doing, not what I'm doing. You cannot deal with this, which will have and already is reflected in the level of prices obtained by Polish farmers, and in the far future it will be even more important. Production costs, production costs rather than prices are already increasing much faster today, for most agricultural products there is no price increase, and in some cases these prices are falling dramatically. [[That's not true.]] Then pay attention. This is our expectation for the Minister to present real and not only political methods of impact on the emerging and growing problems of the Polish village. The flagship bill you tried to adopt, the problem you showed in the election campaign - hunting damage. It is worth asking the question that farmers today receive compensation for this, where there is a draft law on hunting law, where there are rules that allow farmers to receive real compensation. And on European policy - a complete blazer. A complete blazer consisting in the fact that Poland is either ignored today, and that would be the best term... But today Poland is discriminated against by your international policy. I don't mean just those who work in the agricultural department, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but also those who operate in a widely understood policy. Polish farmers pay for all this today. Essential question: When will you end this crazy policy leading to the collapse of Polish agriculture and start solving honest and honest problems? [[Applause]] [[Tell me the truth.]] [[Voice from the room: Chickens can be released.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u104	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the question about the current dramatic situation in Polish agriculture, I would like to start by presenting a few figures. November 2015, average buying-in price for pigs - PLN 3.91, currently - PLN 5.21. [[Applause]] [[You can't talk like that.]] In this state we have embraced agriculture after our predecessors here. How about milk? November 2015 - PLN 1.16, at present - PLN 1.31 zł. [[Applause]] After all, these are basic raw materials sold by Polish farmers. [[Poultry.]] But here I have an invoice, which the Polish farmer received from the milk collector when you ruled - 38 gr per l of milk in the extra class. [[Aren't you ashamed?]] [[Voices from the hall: Shame, shame.]] Only after an inspection to this buyer by the new government has the price increased twice daily. [[They're green with shame.]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] You have allowed a situation in which Polish farmers have been abused in an unworthy way, in a way that they have not experienced since the partitions... [[A little serious, Minister.]] ...from a time when power in Poland was not Polish power. [[There's nothing to discuss.]] These numbers can be given and I'll give them as many as possible, because let's discuss the facts... [[You're welcome.]] ...not about the myths you're trying to create in the Polish countryside. Fortunately, the Polish village is aware and aware of the situation in which we have embraced the country... [[He can count...]] ...and the situation that is now. But the Member raised some important problems of the Polish village. Bird flu. Indeed, since 3 December in Poland 65 outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza have been identified in domestic poultry and 68 in wild birds, but at the same time there were 719 cases in wild birds in Germany... [[Don't look at the others, just look at each other.]] ...and 90 in breeding poultry... [[Not what the Germans did. What did you do?]] ...in Hungary - 62 in wild birds, 233 in poultry, in France - 50 in wild birds, 485 in poultry... [[Minister from France, Germany, Hungary...]] ...in the Czech Republic, which produces many times smaller and much smaller than Poland, 39 in wild birds, 38 in poultry. [[What about China? Japan?]] The Polish service stood at the height of the task. It was thanks to these limitations that, thanks to these difficult restrictions, the Polish breeding managed to survive this difficult period. She survived with as little losses as possible. [[You live in a different reality.]] But we were also able to issue a regulation within a few days, in which we directed resources to allocate specific resources, to give concrete aid to farmers around those outbreaks that were in a difficult situation because they could not sell poultry. These are difficult solutions in which we talk about access, about many restrictions, but they allowed, led to the situation that we have, that the disease in Poland is contained. Identical to African swine fever. The number of cases in our neighbors is much higher. [[Which neighbors?]] The disease is rampant throughout Europe, Poland has managed. We've dealt with the economic consequences, we've dealt with the veterinary effects of this disease. There hasn't been a single case of this disease in pigs in six months, but the neglect of previous years, the absence of a reduction in the population of feral pigs are problems... [[It's a lie.]] ...which we're dealing with as well. It's going on, but it only started after the change of power. Only then could it have started. [[Don't lie to me.]] If you are talking about the current situation in agriculture, this is a whole package of laws, which you once announced in large part, but which you have never adopted, solutions that are beneficial for farmers, regulating agricultural markets, regulating the position of farmers in the supply chain of agri-food products, regulating land marketing. I understand that it hurts you that farmers from the Marshals who once bought PGRs can't make money selling this land. You're in pain. [[Applause]] It hurts your friends. [[Yours, not yours.]] It hurts your friends that they can't make money on the ground. The Polish farmer is happy if the price of the land falls because the Polish farmer does not sell the land. Polish farmer buys land if he wants to develop his farm. These regulations are, of course, analysed. They need to be corrected. These amendments will be introduced because, unlike you, we listen to farmers, we listen to Poles and we try to implement solutions that are the most advantageous. If changes need to be made somewhere, amendments need to be made, it will be introduced, but in the case of regulation of land trading we have stopped this speculative buying and speculative sale. A Polish farmer can buy land and there is not a single example of a farmer who did not buy it because of new solutions. But the speculators will not earn, they will not earn those who have benefited from this for years of the bandit privatisation of Polish land, the bandit sale of Polish land. [[They've multiplied in the PO-PSL regime.]] We have taken an active foreign policy. Last year we created 27 new markets for dozens of products. Of course, we're affected by ASF restrictions, avian influenza... [[Sumy.]] ...but further actions allow further countries to agree to regionalise, allow for the sale of Polish products. It is also a lie - like a lie about agricultural pensions - to say that exports of Polish products are falling. Last year it increased in value, although slightly, but increased in quantity and increased in a significant way, because we know that it was a year, especially the beginning of last year, of lower prices on world markets, which did not come from Polish politics. The economic situation of Polish farmers is our particular concern, therefore we have launched such loans, loans that never existed, to support farms in difficulty. But already at the final stage of the work there is a project to exclude basic means of production from chamber execution. For almost 20 years in the last 27 years, you were in the government, you PSL, and you couldn't change the fact that he was being executed in the chamber with basic equipment on the farm, basic means of production. You remained in the stage of the horse and lost the tractor because you were never interested in the development of the Polish village. [[Applause]] It's just... [[♪ The bell ♪]] You did business at the expense of Polish farmers. You didn't fatten Polish pigs, you fattened each other. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[This, Minister, is too much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u106	I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I can't see. I'm closing the list. And I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that speaking time - up to 2 minutes. There's 38 people on the list, so to fit everyone in, I have a request for a smooth speech. But before they begin, allow me to welcome the students of the higher seminary of the priest. Rector Paul Pietrusiak. [[Applause]] I hope I haven't got the wrong name, but it's a little vaguely written. I wish you gentlemen an exciting experience of your stay in the Seym. Now, I'm asking for your first speech. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank you for this - laconic of necessity - information about the state of Polish agriculture with this comparative analysis of the situation in which we assumed responsibility for agriculture in 2015, with what is A.D. 2017. Among other things, the data on the level of prices that you quoted show that this claim about the dramatic, difficult, especially bad situation of Polish agriculture is only an invention for the purpose of political activity, especially the Polish People's Party. The world's agricultural situation is due to very many factors, many variables, which we often have no influence on. I think that Minister Sawicki, as the head of the Ministry, knows very well how many elements of global and European policy, including unforeseen elements, even related to animal diseases, can appear and affect the situation of agriculture. That is why I am convinced that this rhetoric that you are applying here, which Maliszewski has applied, about this, once again, dramatic situation, is abuse. Unless it's like Sztaudinger said: Truth in the eyes of the circle, so I prefer the lie. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It also seems to me that part of the action you're running in rural areas, hugging people, telling them things that aren't true... That should be considered. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the changes that are taking place are going in the right direction, and I want to keep the Minister absolutely convinced that these changes will continue. And to the masters I say to Alexander Fredry, "No one believes a liar, but sometimes he believes himself." Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u108	Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Speaker! A liar doesn't believe... I'll give you the letters, the information that comes to the Members' Office and that forces us to make such statements, not other statements. But to the point. Unlike the Minister, I want to talk about concrete things, not be at a political rally. I'd like to ask you a specific question. I am very sorry that Minister Lech is not here. I would probably be more satisfied with the answer, because he's a professional about the ASF issue, which I want to talk about. I also want to talk about PiS policy at all about infectious diseases and how to deal with them. It is not true that we left you infectious diseases that were spread because there were three outbreaks. Let me remind you that you were the ones who couldn't handle them. You spread them around the country, and now you're blaming us. But to the point. Have you developed a coherent system besides a bioinsurance plan that is designed to ensure that farmers finally know what compensation they deserve? Ladies and gentlemen, I drive around Poland. There is no lying information here, sir, because you may ask a farmer who is still not informed whether he has the right to compensation, compensation, public aid, not public aid, but to help a ministry with EU money that has lost its income due to infectious disease. People are calling us, asking us to tell them what's going on, where the minister has the money and how They're supposed to get it. Why does it say in small letters that if they put the animals in the barn, they won't get compensation? Why is there no simple guide, what they deserve, what can they apply for both ASF and avian influenza? There are people who haven't gotten any money yet. There are also farmers who are deprived of these opportunities because they have not been informed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Incapacity, chaos, and mess in the fight against disease. It's generally described and known. I can hand over as many documents as you want, so don't rally, just answer the questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u110	Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u111	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Really, when we asked this question, when we formulated this question, we wanted a speech, a substantive answer, and we met, we could say, once again, with a shoe and arrogance, a political attack. [[Applause]] I'll be honest with you, the real world is a little different. However, it is worth to be among farmers, asking. These questions, these answers won't go to the farmers. I have a specific question about the introduction of this law, the flagship act, as you think, to buy land. A concrete example. Mianowice is a married couple of farmers who bought land already under the jurisdiction of the new law, because in July 2016, in order to enlarge their farm, but they fell ill and decided to transfer the farm to the sons who worked with them on the fatherland. Then they wanted to retire, but it turned out it wasn't as simple as you said the inheritance was obvious and limitless here. In order to receive a pension from the KRUS, they must dispose of the farm, and thus also the purchased land. So they applied to the district court for permission. The court dismissed their action because it considered that in this case the consent was unnecessary. The marriage appealed to the district court because it had doubts about the Supreme Court. Minister, is this a normal procedure for transferring to heirs, sons of the household? Does the Ministry of Agriculture know this aspect? Does he think that the rules are well-designed or wrong? If so, is he going to modify this law, which is harmful, once again I stress it, for the Polish village? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u112	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u113	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! So far 37 outbreaks of avian influenza have been detected in Poland. This virus included half of the voivodships. Most were found in the Lubuskie voivodship. But we're not alone. A similar situation occurred in 20 countries of the European Union. The Ministry of Agriculture has dealt perfectly with this problem. Today, the Minister of Agriculture has signed a regulation which repeals an order for the isolation of poultry or other birds in closed facilities. Poland is one of the world's largest poultry exporters. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Are there any solutions proposed by the government in connection with the export of poultry so that the problem of avian influenza virus concerns only the region of the province and not the whole country? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u114	Thank you. Bożena Kaminska, Civic Platform. There is no Member. In that case, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I ask my questions on behalf of farmers intervening in my parliamentary office. The first concerns farmers, many farmers who use the State Treasury land under the ownership of the Agricultural Property Agency and implement the agri-environment scheme. Due to delays in the conclusion of lease contracts by the Agricultural Property Agency, i.e. not due to farmers, simply these contracts are not concluded, farmers are at risk of loss. Firstly, they cannot submit applications for aid to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, and here the deadline is already very short, and secondly, the absence of lease contracts exposes them to additional charges because there is a 5-fold rent. So on behalf of these farmers, I ask and request that the Agricultural Property Agency accelerate its activities in the conclusion of these agreements or introduce transitional provisions which would not exclude farmers from aid for agri-environment schemes. The second question concerns the prohibition and retention of minor poultry farming. Here, maybe I can use a piece of a letter that I get a lot. This is a farmer's letter, I'll read a passage. I quote: On behalf of my own and per-ward poultry farmers, I request the immediate cancellation of the regulation on keeping poultry locked up. This regulation is perceived by farmers as destroying their farm farms and lobbying corporations of industrial poultry farming. This is done to make the market unhealthy and harmful to health. We do not agree that our Polish breeding tradition is thoughtlessly destroyed by anti-Polish lobbyists. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Sheep breeding has already been destroyed, now it's time for poultry. Literally, the question is, did everyone fall on their heads in the ministry? Who's it supposed to be for? People curse the minister with stones. My question is short and is: When will the regulation be abolished? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yesterday.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u116	Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Over a year ago, a group of 10 farmers from the Chojnice district arrived in my parliamentary office in Chojnice. Farmers were very concerned about the situation in agriculture, low prices for the buying-in of live animals, milk, and, in general, the bad situation. They wondered whether to change the production profile to cattle, reclassify their production. I mean, these are the costs. I spoke to Minister Krzysztof Jurgel at the time. He said it was hard, it's a state of mind. Today we know that it is much better. Even compared to February 2016, the price of the living has almost doubled. There was a milk price - I was in one of the farms in the town of Brusy - up to 70 gr for 1 l. The first reading of the Farmers' Cooperatives Act took place in the Seym yesterday. Just at that time, when the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, travels around the voivodship, presenting what has been done, along with plans for the future, the Polish People's Party in current information speaks about the catastrophic state of Polish agriculture. Minister, why is PSL so bad when things are getting better? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u118	Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska. She's not here. In that case, Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the so-called. a law on the trading of land which has been in force since 30 April Ub. the law on the suspension of the sale of real estate and Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain other laws. Both during the process of this law and shortly after its entry into force, there was a lot of controversy both here, in the Sejm and in various media. It was accused of unconstitutionality, blocking trade even with small land, the fact that it caused a drastic fall in land prices and many other difficulties for farmers. I would therefore like to ask for information on how agricultural land is traded after almost a year of operation, whether farmers are satisfied with the functioning of the law, how this law has affected the level of land prices and, possibly, what is the dramatic situation in this area, which the applicants are talking about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u120	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Recently, the media reported that the Minister for Agriculture had applied to the European Union for compensation for pig producers and agricultural producers for loss of income due to ASF infectious disease. I have a question: Has the European Union agreed to such compensation? How much money will go to the farmers? Who has the right to compensation? Is that money in the Minister of Agriculture's budget yet? What are the procedures for agricultural producers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Minister Bogucki, it's been a year and a half. Sitting here, working and listening, as a man who has worked in public service for a few years, I am surprised that you say such words, referring them to those who were before you. Someone will come for you, too. When you build the minister's authority, do you want to get it out of your mouth with ugly words? [[Which ones were ugly?]] And one more thing, Minister. Why don't you take an example from Minister Babalski? What were the difficult questions he answered, and did he direct such ugly words? [[Which ones were ugly?]] Mr President, don't say that no more, because agriculture can be done where it counts for subsidies and doesn't hide on a hectare, and agriculture can be done at a medium and high level, where any change causes a hesitation. Minister, I have listened to the statement that outbreaks of avian influenza have been contained here - you said that more of these outbreaks have been found in our neighbours abroad. We're supposed to be enjoying this, or should we have an action plan on how we're going to counter it? Minister! You did not mention the situation on the sugar market - this is a sensitive topic from 2005 to 2007 - how Südzucker treated our farmers this year. And please, sir, we want to be away. For what you say it's been eight years, the voters have made their decision. Now your four years or so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So let us talk about what you want to do, not insult Members. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Poland we have 14 million hectares of agricultural land. After last year's entry into force of the changes by PiS in agricultural land trading, there was an extraordinary chaos. The rules on restrictions on agricultural real estate are unclear and contradictory. They were intended to facilitate the transfer of their father to their loved ones to farmers, while the farmer who risked and gave away the property purchased after 30 April 2016 without the court's consent must count on this being challenged. The court doesn't have to agree to a pass on the farm. Then you have to wait ten years. This may make it much harder to get a pension in KRUS. Such situations already take place, and cases go to the Supreme Court. Similar problems also arise during divorces and property divisions. Minister, when are you guys gonna get on with improving this bill, that bullshit you made? This is very important. I don't know why you don't care. And another thing. Today, Minister Jurgiel is releasing chickens, ducks, geese and chicks. Yesterday he overturned his order to order the isolation of poultry, but there are new restrictions again. I have a question for you when the Minister will put in place a process of regionalisation. This is claimed by the National Chamber of Poultry and Feed Producers. Are the fate of poultrymen who lose liquidity through avian influenza, their businesses, their assets, indifferent to the Minister? After all, during the election campaign you wanted to listen to Poles. Now you can see how you listen to Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u126	Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u127	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Polish rural and rural communities live more than 50% the total population of the country. The current state of technical infrastructure in the countryside is much poorer than in cities. Nothing in the last eight years has been done to make things better. The changes in agriculture must be closely linked to rural development and, above all, to policies stimulating the creation of new jobs in rural areas. I have a question for the Minister: To what extent does the Ministry of Agriculture cooperate with other resorts, e.g. with the Minister of Development to increase the number of jobs in the countryside? And how do these figures show what is the unemployment situation in the country at the moment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u128	Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no way to fail to refer to your previous statement. Shoe and arrogance will lose you, lose you very quickly. Don't be surprised there's a drop in the polls because you've broken away from reality, stopped listening to people, and you're just listening to the clappers. It's a dramatic performance. After all, every child in the country knows that the price of the living is not up to you and will never depend on you. As they've grown today, you want to put your boobs on, and if they fall next year, you'll say, unfortunately, prices in the world have fallen. Eight years. Funny, it's just funny, not at the minister's level. [[Voice from the room: But true.]] Let's talk about real problems. And the real problem is that those who didn't know PiS trusted PiS and so on. After the new law came into force, they expanded their farms, bought land, today they want to retire. And what does it turn out to be? The president of the agency does not give them permission to dispose of this land for the benefit of children, he refers it to the court. And what does the court say? The court finds that only in the case - because you have written in the law - of random causes, retirement is not a random cause. And what are farmers supposed to do? Well, if you want to retire, farmer, don't expand your farm for 10 years before you retire, don't buy the land, don't increase it so you don't hand over the bigger children, because you won't be able to retire. This is your show plus for agriculture? This is a downside for farmers, this is a dramatic situation for farmers, because it turns out that right now, in order to retire, they have to wait 10 years. [[Applause]] Take care of it, that's the real problem. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u130	Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The difficult situation of Polish farmers is a decline after the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, eight years.]] Farmers remember that very well. [[Voices from the room: Yes. Yes.]] The Polish farmer knows that the main cause of the problems of Polish agriculture is the policy of opening up the national market to multinational enterprises over the years, privatising processing plants in isolation from the domestic raw material facilities and selling the land to foreigners. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Do you hear yourself?]] The Polish People's Party did not seek a level playing field for Polish farmers. The embargo introduced by Russia was a consequence of the restrictions applied by the European Union to Russia. And you know that very well. [[Member, have pity on yourself.]] And it was under the rule of PSL that an embargo was introduced. What did you do about it? You didn't do anything. Minister Sawicki was helpless. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is now the result of the ministry, the minister of agriculture and the development of the village of Krzysztof Jurgiel... [[Who wrote this to you?]] ...it was possible to open up new markets. This is... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yes. You're laughing at powerlessness. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] This is Middle East, East Asia and Africa. [[Malaysia.]] It hurts, doesn't it? It hurts, doesn't it? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Go now, woman, go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u132	Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Club Law and Justice... [[No, Kazimierz Plocke. Your marshal doesn't like the Platform?]] I do, but I have a list of where Mr Mieczysław Miazga is. But you're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u133	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u134	I'm not done yet, sir. I see on the monitor that this is Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club, and that will be the order. You'll be here in a minute. Excuse me. Please, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u135	So, what, you want me to step down? [[Voice from the hall: Kaziu, go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u136	You're welcome. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But we will also listen to your comments with attention. [[But patience pays off.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u137	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In a few weeks it will be a year since the law on the suspension of the sale of agricultural property in Poland has been in force. In this context, the Ministry has probably gained some experience. I would like to draw attention to two important points. First of all, how does the Agricultural Property Agency carry out the control process on agricultural land trading in Poland? Is there any new experience in this matter? I would also like to know how many applications have been received from farmers who want to make a purchase-sale of agricultural land and how many administrative, positive or negative decisions have been made in this respect. How is this process organized? And finally, it's another case. Minister, I wanted to know if the Ministry is preparing an amendment to this law, which in several points is indeed a law that complicates and complicates the lives of farmers themselves. There were examples here that a farmer who acquired agricultural property after the entry into force of the Act must absolutely cultivate the land for 10 years, cannot transfer it to the successor, nor can he benefit from pension rights. So it seems to me that this is a matter that must certainly be analysed and improved. There will be more of these examples, and I think that our responsibility is to change these bad rules. So I'd like to know when it's gonna happen, if that's the intention. And finally, finally. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Agriculture does not tolerate any colour of party card, it is a common value that we are supposed to care about and pursue. Not just at national level...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u138	Mr President, we are finishing the speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u139	...but also European, because it's our business together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u140	Thank you very much. And now effectively, please, Mr Mieczysław Mizga, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u141	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Rado! Minister! [[The High Seym is better.]] As we know, the European Commission's consultation on the future of the common agricultural policy after 2020 is ongoing until 2 May. The Ministry of Agriculture has prepared a draft position of the Polish government. Question to the Minister: Is there any chance that the common agricultural policy will achieve its full success in order to offset competitiveness in the common market, including the compensation of area subsidies, and will Brexit reduce the budget of the common agricultural policy? Another question, Minister. There was information that Poland received less money from the EU budget than the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development requested to finance losses of the pigmeat sector due to diseases. Question: "Is it true and how much has Poland received, and under this aid which support mechanisms will be activated for pig producers?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u142	Thank you very much. Again, I'm sorry for the trouble earlier. Another speech, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u143	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I can't say there's a tragedy in the country where I work. It's different and difficult. But saying that we're passionate about whether we've been shepherded, not the flock, isn't the minister of agriculture. That's very rude. I would also like to say that prices for cattle in Poland are not due to government or government, but they are due to the European Union's agreement with China. Dear Minister... [[And who made that deal?]] The European Union with China. We have 23 or 24 cases of ASF in Poland. Fortunately, they ended in September 2016. We have 252 cases - it is from the communication from 5 April - swine fever in Poland, feral disease in Poland, it is closed in four regions. The ASF is going crazy in Ukraine. In 2016, 91 outbreaks were reported and dormant or euthanasia was 52,000. pigs - 52,000. pigs. According to our services, the Veterinary Inspection, ASF in the case of boars in Poland runs differently, it mutates, they are carriers. Is this sleep in our country expected to explode? I would also like to say that about 30% Polish pork production depends on imports. This is a strategically bad situation. The number of pigs stabilised with a slight increase, but at a low level. According to my knowledge, the government's actions are soothing, but you're not doing anything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't want to put out the fire. Will there be money for farmers, for entrepreneurs for prevention, for security, for parks...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u144	Mr President, we are finishing the speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u145	...for resources? I'd like you to go this way - not to put out fires, but to protect them. The farms are left to themselves, and they are responsible for the state of the population in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u147	You have abstained from all kinds of aid and measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u149	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! PSL is trying to convince the public that Polish agriculture is bad. Not much, it uses even more forceful phrases - that the situation is even dramatic. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that PSL is the last political formation in Poland, which should speak about the condition of Polish agriculture, and especially make accusations and criticize the current government of Law and Justice and Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel on the current situation in Polish agriculture. Between 2007 and 2015, for 8 years, PSL ruled undividedly in this area and had a comfortable and long time to do a lot of good things for Polish farmers and rural areas. Unfortunately, the PSL politicians wasted this time and could not cope with this issue, as evidenced by the statements of many Polish farmers and the results indicating mediocre support for this formation in the countryside during the last parliamentary elections. That's why I'm maintaining what I said earlier, that PSL in this matter should speak as little as possible. [[But we're talking about agriculture.]] Now let's get to the bottom of this. PSL claims inter alia. the Ministry of Agriculture has not responded to the spread of ASF virus and avian influenza. I will refer to avian influenza in my Małopolska voivodship. You might say that the veteran services... vets... vets... vets...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u150	..the marines... [[Learn to read.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u151	...in the direction of a Małopolska veterinarian undertaken in consultation with other crisis management services were perfect and exemplary, as evidenced by the data. To make accusations of this and accuse the minister of not responding in this regard is frivolous and only bad evidence of the authors of these allegations. I would like to thank the veterinary services from this point of view for working for the safety of Poles and Poles. Question to the Minister: Is the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture [[♪ The bell ♪]] finally dealt with problems and problems, even a mess left over by the governments of PSL and the Civic Platform with the IT system for direct payments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Since 1 January this year, an amendment to the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products has entered into force. This law is very desirable and expected, which affects the greater sales of goods produced by manufacturers, as well as the greater competitiveness of Polish agriculture. I would like the Minister to answer the question of why no one has dealt with the amendment of this law before. After all, the introduction of the Polish product, the Polish product, is obvious and beneficial for Polish farmers and food manufacturers. Has it previously worked for Polish farmers, or has it been possible to sell goods to other producers who have been impersonating this name, to the fact that they are Polish products? Minister, another question about insurance in the agricultural sector. This year the amount for this purpose amounts to PLN 918 million. I would like to know what resources have been spent on these goals before. Minister, one more question. What is the state of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture? I am mainly talking about preparing for direct payments at a time when we took over governments. What were the neglects, and what did it look like then? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Gądek. There isn't. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u155	Minister, the agricultural system law is generally accepted by farmers. However, there are understatements or errors in interpretation or in collisions, often also fueled by the predecessors. So I wanted to ask you a question for clarity, and I want a written reply. Namely, does the agricultural system law really prevent sons from inheriting the part of the farm that they grew all the time from their father, but gives children a chance to inherit the other two sons, or grandchildren? In other words, is it not possible, as the notary claims, to draw up an act of notarial transfer, acceptance, after the case has been carried out, of two sons living, but, as the notary claims, this right falls upon the grandchildren, the children of the other two siblings? Is this really the case, or is it simply an incorrect interpretation? Thank you. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u156	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Avian flu exploded in Lubuskie Voivodeship, exploded in December. And according to the information we received from the Ministry of Agriculture, everything was perfectly contained. As it was perfect, I'm just going to give you a few examples. Namely, during this short period of time, when it was necessary to control it and take action on avian influenza, the veterinarian changed several times, because that was the decision. The mats that were placed at the border of the infected areas were so large that the wheel of the car passed by without even turning around the whole thing. So that's what it looked like. But the worst is still going on. Injured farmers, farmers still have trouble getting compensation. The problem is with the valuation, the problem is with the compensation received. On 22 February, more than 1.5 months ago, at the meeting of the Agriculture Committee, Minister Ewa Lech replied to the question of breeders that compensation would be paid in gross amounts. Immediately after this committee meeting on 27 February, my colleagues and I asked the Minister to confirm this information. Today we already have April and so far the answers to this simple, it would seem that we do not have a parliamentary inquiry. So let me repeat again: Will the compensation for avian influenza be paid together with VAT? I ask the Minister to give this reply as soon as possible, because the interpretation of the officials who decide on these compensations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u159	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Member State of PSL draws today a dramatic picture of Polish agriculture. And what was the situation of farmers under PSL? She was angry. The price of milk and live was falling. The milk and pig producers suffered the most. Therefore, the hypocrisy on the part of PSL is the claim that the situation of farmers today has become dramatic. Under the rule of law and justice the situation of farmers is improving, milk prices have increased significantly, the situation on the pig market is improving, and prices on the poultry market are good. However, the problem of the decline in farmers' incomes that occurred between 2014 and 2015 is still to be resolved, i.e. under the PSL-PO regime, when developed farms were investing in financial difficulties. Minister! How does the Government of Law and Justice want to help farms that have fallen into financial difficulties under the rule of the Polish People's Party? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u160	Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u161	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 14 April 2016, the Sejm passed a law on the suspension of the sale of real estate from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and the amendment of certain laws which entered into force on 30 April of this year. It follows from that law that only individual farmers can essentially be purchasers of agricultural real estate. The exception is those close to the seller, local self-government units, ecclesiastical legal persons and the Treasury, and with the agreement of the President of the Agricultural Property Agency, expressed by administrative decision, other entities, if the seller proves that there was no possibility of transfer of property to the abovementioned. the operators and the purchaser give the guarantee that agricultural activities are properly carried out and that there will be no excessive concentration of agricultural land as a result of the acquisition. Minister! Please answer the following questions, including in writing. How many applications have been received by the Agricultural Property Agency's off-road units regarding the approval of the President of ANR to acquire agricultural property between 30 April 2016 and 5 April 2017? How many administrative decisions, including positive and negative ones, have been issued by the Agricultural Property Agency during this period, in relation to the above-mentioned proposals and to what area? How many applications for authorisation of the acquisition of agricultural property by foreigners and of what area were submitted to the Agricultural Property Agency during that period, and how have these applications been dealt with? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u162	Please, Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Izbo! Minister, I have a question as to whether it is true that pork prices have only yet reached the prices which Law and Justice left in 2007. Is it true that milk prices have only now reached the prices that Law and Justice left in 2007? [[Robert, yes, it's true.]] Minister, is it true that milk prices during the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party reached up to 60 gr per l? [[38.]] Minister, is it true that Minister Jurgiel has spent a year... [[Voice from the room: He slept]] ... carried out 17 promises made by the Polish People's Party... [[He did not pay the farmers due.]] ...to his constituents, and they never really did? Is that true, Minister... [[Voices from the room: Yes, right.]] ... that for the past 20 years, this party, the Polish People's Party, has been responsible for Polish agriculture in the last 27 years, and this party has negotiated the conditions for accession to the European Union in the field of agriculture and also in the second perspective of 2014.2020? Is it true that it was this party that negotiated such conditions that the Polish farmer still does not have equal payments? Recently, one of the activists... [[The voice from the courtroom: But you promised to level it out.]] ... The Polish People's Party, a high activist who should know about this... [[Voice from the room: High activist? I wonder how tall he is.]] ... He asked me why the subsidies have not yet been evened out in this year. Minister Sawicki, I ask you to say that you are negotiating with the package the perspective of 2014 and 2020 and not within a year. Now just one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time to play the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I consider the political disease of ASF and the avian flu to be a great disgrace, and I think that Minister Sawicki...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u164	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u165	...doesn't fit into that tone and approaches this disease with greater humility, and I think that with even greater humility Minister Kalemba would approach this disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u166	Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In your political show you were so busy that you put the thesis that Polish agriculture is so good, and that is why it is so good that somewhere else, with your neighbors, it is worse. Something unbelievable. It so happened, Minister, that last week I visited the municipalities covered by the AFS in the Lublin Voivodeship. I talked to the farmers, talked to the local government. Unfortunately, help from the management of the Ministry, but also personally from you, Minister, declared at meetings, also on Lublin soil, but also in the agricultural committee, has remained at the level of the declaration since September Ub. farmers shall have no decision as to the amount of the aid or the time limit for the implementation of these livestock payments taken at lower prices from the blue zones by certain establishments. Some of these establishments have not yet settled their debts. Minister, do you know this, and if you know it, have you taken any action in this regard? Farmers are genuinely in a dramatic situation. Despite the positive decisions of the district veterinarians in terms of the possibility of establishing new stocks, farmers do not do so, because firstly, they do not have financial resources and secondly, production is at risk because the pigs are still marked with special seals saying that they come from the area of danger. When, Minister - because there are no, as you said, new sources - will you remove the blue zones? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally - small breeders, keeping small flocks.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u168	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u169	There is no decision authorising production for own use. Minister, what are you waiting for? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u170	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that time is 2 minutes, so please conduct your speech in order to fit in these 2 minutes. [[Excuse me, Marshal.]] Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. This is Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to statements here, in particular Members of the Law and Justice, one can have the confidence that he has actually embraced the virus of deep hypocrisy among his colleagues in PiS. I would like to say that after a year of PiS rule in mid-January this year. Ninety thousand. farmers in our country have not received EU subsidies. And for what reason? Because of the incompetence of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for this. As regards these allegations, I would like to ask the Minister - I will return to the promises of the PiS from the election campaign - when Polish farmers can expect to compensate for direct payments at the level of the European Union, because these are the double subsidies you have declared so far. I will return to the problem of ASF outbreaks in Podlaskie, Lublin and Mazowieckie voivodships. There's over 34 of them. In view of the fact that the European budget is, in addition to compensation, the second source of aid to farmers and producers affected by African swine fever, ASF, I have questions: What conditions must farmers and producers meet in order to receive aid from the European Union? Is it true that a large group of farmers and producers may not receive aid from the European Union? Why? Third question. What actions is carried out by the Minister for Agriculture to assist farmers and producers who are suffering significant economic losses due to ASF? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. I can't see. Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice. There isn't any either. Mrs Anna April. I can't see. Mr Jerzy Paul. There isn't. Mr Piotr Uruski. Absent. Mrs Catherine Czochar. There isn't either. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. [[I'm here.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u173	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law on land management according to Members of the Polish People's Party is evil, for among others. According to them, she stopped the rotation of the earth. This is, ladies and gentlemen, clearly not true, manipulation. Why? It is because, according to the current data of the Agricultural Property Agency, thousands of hectares of land are traded among farmers, while the sale of Polish land to foreigners or in private transactions has almost ceased. The governing coalition according to Members of the Polish People's Party does not reside among farmers, does not listen, does not think, is sort of next to the Polish village. I assure you, especially Members of the Polish People's Party, that it is the opposite, and I am proof of it, because apart from listening, I also live in the Polish village and surround myself with these people, I talk to them every day. First of all, the bill was designed to prevent land trafficking from becoming a way of life, as it has been so far. The land is so that farmers can manage it and thus produce it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is nothing else... This law is almost the fulfillment of the words of Vincent Witos, who said: The boy kept three things in the worst moments: earth, religion, and nationality. They are dissatisfied above all - and I will tell you more - these [[♪ The bell ♪]] people who wanted to speculate on Polish soil. In a law that has been in operation for a year, perhaps some adjustments, minor corrections are needed. Is the Ministry of Agriculture planning to change this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u174	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the PiS campaign before the elections, representatives of PiS rode in Polish villages, explaining how the Civic Platform and PSL destroyed Polish agriculture, and this nonsense unfortunately reached some part of society. Today it turns out that you punish Polish farmers for believing your lies. Maybe part of it was, but not that much. Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, when at the beginning of my term of office I spoke and asked about the lack of direct payments, you dropped everything on the predecessors, but a moment, it was a year and a half ago, and you are still late in payments. Today, the spreading epidemics of viral diseases in animals, both in birds and in pigs, have completely escaped any state control, any control of the ministry. Today, not only farms are dying, but producers and companies producing meat are also dying, working for farms. What do you have today's idea of improving this situation? Whether the main idea of the state in this case is perhaps three years of absolute prison for a farmer who will slaughter a pig of his own breeding, or perhaps you have other ideas for this, for example. No pets allowed in a barn that's supposed to be listed in some strange, undefined way today? Ladies and gentlemen, get to work. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u178	Mr Stefan Strzłkowski, Law and Justice, is absent. The last speech was by Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party. You're welcome. [[Marcus, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u179	Thank you, Marshal, for your permission. I will say that this atmosphere of discussion and how it is conducted, mutual attacks - it is unworthy, neither Polish farmers nor Polish villages deserve it. And let me be honest: I remember the time of my ministry and the way in which this debate was conducted and the attack on the part of the opposition at that time. I think it is high time we did not talk about one of the most important areas of the Polish economy in the form of slanders, accusations, and present solutions and facts. I would like to ask Minister Bogucki, since we have information that you have opened up markets in 21 new countries. I remember that when I left Poland was selling its food products to 71 countries in the world except the European Union. I'd like you to list at least 15 of those 27 new countries in the world that you've allegedly opened up to, and what we're selling in these markets. I would like to ask why, even though it was decided more than a year ago that we would have an agricultural advisor in India, there is a vacancy in Delhi. Don't you have a candidate or don't you want one? Is the only achievement in relations with the great India about to be signed a cereal export agreement? It's not our main export product. It will be a re-export from Ukraine and will earn again the so-called. Oligarchs, not simple farmers who want to sell milk, poultry, meat, because grain is better to convert in the country and sell as a highly processed product. Why doesn't he have a second job? [[♪ The bell ♪]] agricultural advisors in Beijing? This is also an important region and we were supposed to export there. Regarding Witos's operative part: Witos also said that there is no need for intermediaries between the land and the farmer. The state is worse...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u180	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u181	...a middleman than anyone on the way, because this country banned Polish farmers from buying state land today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u182	Thank you. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u183	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yes, the Polish People's Party for 27 years, when we are a free country, completely independent, had a long time when it was responsible for agriculture, and I will say that this period, which is today, is also one of them. We take the responsibility for Polish agriculture and hence the proposal to listen to the Minister's information to present a proposal for better solutions for agriculture and to criticise those you are proposing. I absolutely agree with the fact that the Minister for Agriculture does not have a full or most effect on the level of market prices at all. Many external factors have an impact on this. But as the Minister has so kindly used numbers as an example of his effectiveness in the impact on the market, it is also worth quoting the figures relating to milk and quoting them for 2016 and 2017 - when you function. In February 2016, I saw milk invoices at the level of 38 gr for 1 l, in January 2017, I saw invoices for 56 gr for l, so if this is how we close, then let's give these figures in detail. But let us say that this is not the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture, but the Minister of Agriculture has some potential for impact on the market, whether inside or outside. Maybe we should talk about it. Today, the question was how much money had been negotiated at EUR 10 million to help farmers affected by ASF. 800,000, 8% the amount requested. Why didn't the Minister give you that number? This is a number that does not depend on the market, but depends on the effectiveness of the Polish negotiations. Maybe we can tell you the number of limits that Polish apple producers were in force this year in relation to the withdrawal of fruit from the Russian embargo. 300,000. t in 2015, when we know who was in charge, and 98 thousand. t this year. We know who's in charge. These are the numbers that depend on the negotiating efficiency outside. And already a kuriozum and the best example of effectiveness is the recruitment a few days ago, when you announced a withdrawal call at 340, but not thousands, only 340 t. The allocation rate for the farm is zero, because if he divided it by the number of people who would like to participate, then even one apple would probably not be enough, but it would have to divide this apple. This is your effectiveness in terms of impact on the market. And a few sentences about these laws, which the Minister has already talked more modestly about than when he attacked his predecessors. Besides, the Minister has such a style that, when he talks about his achievements or his achievements, he speaks with such a quiet voice - I understand it, because he has nothing to boast about - but if he talks about his predecessors, then he takes on the right voice and takes on the attacking position. So briefly, systematically and without political emotions. The Direct Selling Act, which was intended to enable some of the holdings to obtain extraordinary value added income for the processing of their products. I wanted to ask you to identify and show the shops to which farmers direct such food produced by themselves according to these rules, where you can buy such food, because I don't know, and this law has been in force for some time now. Incidentally, we had to count how much it would cost the farmer to produce this sausage when he had to take this pig to the slaughterhouse by transport, which must be authorized, for which it must be paid, and must pay for the slaughter. How much is a kilo of that meat in direct sales? Contractual agreements. The very right goal and it is very good that we introduced this in 2015, when we were responsible for the agricultural department. But what have you done about it? You have imposed a duty and punishment on those who want to sell to the greenery an apple box or a pickle of strawberries, and the farmer who has been played today by the great ones you call the owners of the international corporation, you force and chain them to deliver these products on their terms and for many years he has committed himself to deliver them. This is your responsibility, and this is your vision of agriculture. Let's look further: the law against unfair competition, what you're talking about, that it's acting, it's supposed to act and strengthen the position of the farmer. After all, there you have defined parameters which do not apply to farmers, which show that this law does not apply to farmers. And let me say again: please indicate one example that under the law already in force here, at least one farmer has received support from the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection from the proceedings and its position has been strengthened. We were talking about cooperatives yesterday. Please provide one proof, one example, which will show that new farmers' cooperatives will be set up, so necessary, please give at least one preference for those that you have introduced today. You've only copied what used to be, and you're saying it's your achievement. One more question can be asked: the impact on the market. In terms of area subsidies, we talked about a mess that's in the agency, and you didn't handle the IT system. I wanted to ask you how many raspberries producers today will be supported by your decisions for one ha? For us it was 400 euros to 1 ha, today for you it is 0 euros to 1 ha. I want to be clear and clear. Look, Minister, look into it and tell Minister Jurgiel. Already today, the number of defenders [[♪ The bell ♪]] from your club was relatively small. Members of this House have removed themselves from this list, refusing to take responsibility for what you are doing. Your silent coalitioner, Kukiz, does not participate in this discussion at all. I do not want to take responsibility for what you do with Polish agriculture. Speaking of the awareness of Polish farmers and the pride of Polish farmers, I will say: yes, they are aware and they are proud. Today only this pride and this awareness do not allow them to admit the mistake they made in 2005... [[In 2015, the Council ……]] [[Voice from the room: In 2005 too.]] ...by voting in the PiS elections, but in a moment's time, this pride will return and make it clear who really deceived them and who created the imaginary problems for political needs. You're in on it today. It's time to change rhetoric. Today it is not an election campaign, today it is necessary, Minister, to do the job, not just criticize the predecessors. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u184	Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Jack Bogucki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your questions during this discussion, I would first of all like to say that this discussion - which lasts 15 minutes in the first part and 10 minutes in this part - does not allow us to present the whole aspect of the actions which... [[Please write it in writing.]] ...led the Ministry of Agriculture last year, but all you have to do is look at the Ministry of Agriculture's website. There is a good year in agriculture, where they are mentioned, Minister, all countries are listed 27 countries where markets have been opened. [[Escobar?]] There are also dozens of products listed in our documents that can reach these markets now after this year. All the activities that were carried out last year by the Ministry are listed. [[Names, please.]] These are dozens of legal solutions, dozens of initiatives, actions that have been taken and implemented. But also the Government of Law and Justice and the Ministry of Agriculture under Minister Jurgiel's direction for the first time adopted an action programme - it was never such a document - for the years 2015 and 2019, in which we planned what we wanted to do throughout our term of office. Following this, we have also developed a document for 2017 in which the priorities of the Ministry's activities are in 2017. Here are the answers to most of your questions, what we do, what we want to do. Besides, farmers see it, know it, and are informed really on an ongoing basis and very widely. Of course, some of you do not see and will never see, because they do not look at Polish agriculture, they look only from the perspective of their own party, their own interests, and not from the perspective of the interest of the Polish countryside and Polish agriculture. [[That's what you've been doing so far.]] Indeed, among the promises of PSL 17 were The documents that have been completed and the relevant document can be found very easily in this regard. There's no time to discuss this in detail, but this is 17 points of disgrace to the previous coalition. I wouldn't have referred to our predecessors if our predecessor, sitting here in the courtroom, hadn't used this trick for eight years, that in the last year, a few months before the election, maybe a month before the election, to the opposition's questions... [[Talk about your accomplishments.]] ...all the blame for the situation in agriculture was blamed on the government of Law and Justice in the years 2005-2007. [[Voice from the room: Definitely.]] That's why... I can pull the protocols and show them. By answering specific questions... [[Four minutes of water supply.]] As far as the question of buying land and this law is concerned, this law really protected the Polish land - it protected the Polish land, but it will be subject to changes. What you are talking about, these signals have arrived, they are being prepared for change, they will be introduced. [[This year?]] Because we admit that if we do so much, there are solutions in which not everything can be clarified. This will be done and no farmer will suffer any damage for this purpose. [[This year?]] Yeah, this year. When it comes to issues related to two diseases, finally decide whether we want to protect Poland from ASF and bird flu, whether we want to lead to the situation that is in other countries east and west of us - in one case east, in the other case west of us. [[What do you mean? We don't understand.]] I am not happy about the fact that it is worse there, but I am talking about the fact that these restrictions, which are difficult for Polish farmers, are necessary to protect Polish agriculture in this area. They're just necessary. But on the first day when it is possible, if it has been 3 weeks without further cases - notabene in Germany during this period there were dozens of cases in poultry and further cases also in wild birds - immediately restrictions are lifted, are mitigated. When there was a problem that some farms had to be released, we explained that it was possible to release under certain conditions. So it really is done with full responsibility, but there must be some restrictions. Because we wouldn't have ASF if it wasn't for the irresponsible behaviour of the traders and unfortunately some of the farmers, as far as ASF is concerned. [[And you're driving about a mile to the lab. These are your mistakes.]] On the other hand, when it comes to support, for the first time, as soon as there were diseases, we prepared proposals, negotiated with the European Commission, and, on the other hand, we introduced support that solved both market problems and veterinary problems. This support works both ways. The first recruitment is by the end of this week, then it ends, and concerns almost PLN 100 million. Of these, about 20 million are expected to support pig producers in ASF areas for compensation for losses. But it was a programme negotiated by Minister Jurgel with the European Commission as a whole, with all EU countries and with Commissioner Hogan. He had one condition: production cannot be increased. We have therefore asked the European Commission for complementary action in these areas while negotiating at the same time. As a result, it is published on 5 April, still warm, an implementing regulation - in fact a little more than 800 million euros. But this is to complement those who have increased production and I cannot benefit from that support. So this is just a follow-up action. We have negotiated this since August last year, but France has negotiated avian influenza from spring 2016 to January 2017, and has negotiated almost a year. We managed to do this in just over six months. That's how EU mills work. Unfortunately, this support can only be directed at losses already incurred, past losses, cannot be pre-support, and that is why it works. As far as poultry closing issues are concerned, I have already said so. Today the regulation has been amended because we have 3 weeks, 4 weeks of peace. As far as compensation issues are concerned, when, this is an unworthy question. Minister Sawicki, you know when, after 2020, because by 2020, you agreed to such solutions, and in fact Minister Kalemba had a major part in the time when decisions were made. [[Then why did you say something different about the campaign?]] You can't change that. No, we said we'd try to make things even, and we're trying to make it even. [[You lied.]] As regards the price of apples and the issues related to support for apple producers, unfortunately you are also unlucky. The price of apples right now is 10%. higher than it was in November 2015. This situation is improving, although it is certainly not what we would expect. Where to buy food from direct sales, there was a question. Whoa, whoa, whoa. The Direct Selling Act was you who introduced and passed and it did not actually function. We've improved it, we've introduced a new solution. And right now it's possible to sell on farms, at fairs, in many other places. [[But who's selling? Well, there's no way.]] As far as the contract agreements are concerned, you, too, imposed a duty so deep and far in 2015. We'll ease him up in a little while, but it's definitely the solution we agreed with at the time. A solution is needed that strengthens the position of farmers. As far as unfair practices are concerned, the Act will not enter into force until 11 July on the fundamental issue of non-contractual obligations, and it is therefore difficult to expect results. The same is true of cooperatives. The bill's just being processed, and you want it to start functioning. [[No, Minister.]] You were able to spoil Polish agriculture. You can break any machine, any institution, any enterprise, any farm in a short period of time. [[Yeah, that's what you can do. That's what you're good at.]] Unfortunately, the repairs are going on. This repair will in some cases have to last for years, because this is the mechanism of life, this is the mechanism of functioning not only of the state, but of every economic organism. As far as sugar is concerned, these prices have been highest in years, they have also increased in relation to prices from that period. Right now... [[A Bogucki Member can do anything. Bogucki Minister - Bottom.]] ...when it comes to prices [[♪ The bell ♪]] Sugar... But it's also a record year for sugar beet cultivation. This instrument, which you failed to sell, is the Krajowy Spółka Cukrowa, offers decent conditions for contracting. If you guys had been in charge longer, there wouldn't even be a solution. [[Minister, don't be ridiculous.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u186	Minister, I understand you're on your way to the end. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: The same is true of milk prices. If there is at the moment any institution that pays 70 gr, please provide such information. But let me remind you that in your day these prices fell to 38 gr. [[What about the soft fruit?]] [[I'm asking for an invoice dated 'cause she was from February 2016.]] And remember that Polish agriculture is the part of the economy that not only the Ministry of Agriculture looks at, but the whole government. In the strategy of responsible development there were provisions supporting the Polish village, Polish agriculture, supporting the creation of jobs - there was such a question - supporting the Polish village. It is simply that the whole government has finally noticed for the first time in many, many years the need to support and support the Polish village. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What about the soft fruit, Minister? There's no answer. That's how you support agriculture.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you very much, Minister. The Minister's statement concluded this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In connection with critical opposition assessments concerning the situation on the food production market in Poland, please inform whether recent increases in prices of agricultural products have been recorded in Poland in relation to prices during the PO-PSL coalition's reign. Is it true that on an annual basis, there has been an increase in milk prices in Poland? In which region of Poland did the buying-in prices increase most? Was apple exports higher in the first half of 2016 than last year? How many times has apple exports increased to non-EU countries? In view of the consultations planned by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development on the possibility of exporting Polish food to Mexico, please inform us what articles Poland is currently exporting to Mexico. What are the main barriers and obstacles to or preventing food exports to Mexico?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u188	The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft law amending the consular law. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would also like to inform you that the planned item 17th agenda: The report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of sickness and maternity will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. We proceed with the consideration of items 14, 15 and 31 of the agenda: 14. Report from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act (prints No 1334 and 1337). 15. Report from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act (prints No 1317 and 1335). 31. Report from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act (Prints No 1361 and 1411). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry at its meeting on 7 March 2017 examined the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act in print No. 1317, submitted by the members of the PO club. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of this project: The proposed regulations are de facto to restore the legal status in force before 1 January 2017 and thus tighten the rules for the removal of trees and shrubs. Entities interested in the removal of specified trees or shrubs will have to obtain the appropriate approval provided for in the Act of Authorities. Alarm, shouting and social emotions triggered by the amendment of the Environmental Law of December Ub. r. have nothing to do with the actual situation in this respect. The applicants of this project did not notice 230 thousand. trees cut out in Warsaw during the reign of their party friend Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz. Nor did they notice the appalling social opinion of the cutout in Krasiński's garden, where 300 trees were slaughtered in 2013. They did not notice that in 2016 in the area of the city. The competent authorities of Warsaw issued a decision for 4922 trees, and in January and February alone this year a decision was made on cutting for 917 trees. [[I'm asking you to draft a bill...]] It's okay. It is necessary to beat like a drum into a sejm majority, which has restored the right of citizens to decide their property. Let me get this straight. The great majority of citizens accepted the change of 16 December with gratitude and relief. High Izbo! On the side of the discussion about rules for the removal of trees and shrubs, we also discussed how the interests of the citizen, the owner of the property, balance in relation to the objectives pursued by local authorities. Is the public interest superior to the interests of the private owner? Of course, the public interest sometimes requires a limitation of ownership, but it is important to consider carefully whether the solutions put in place are proportionate to the importance of the public objective that is to be achieved and whether local authorities do not have sufficient competence to take care of the green for the public good. Well, High Izbo, they do, but they don't often use them. They also have responsibilities, clearly enshrined in Article. 78 Nature Protection Act. This is the article that requires municipalities to set up and maintain parks and green areas. The famous plot under the office of the district of Downtown, which was so empathized with public opinion, did not have to be returned in nature, even if this phrase was justified. You could leave it as a public green area, and you could pay the landlord back. monetary compensation. Local governments also have a tool in the form of spatial planning, which they most often do not use, and do not make plans to protect green areas from uncontrolled buildings. This issue from downtown is repeated again. High Izbo! As regards the 1317 entries proposed in print. Amendment two, entry in Article. 83f defining exemptions from the rules on cut-outs, paragraph a, that does not apply, quote: shrubs whose age does not exceed 10 years, tends to reflect on the fact that it will be best served by dendrological experts, because without expertise it is difficult to determine the age of the shrubs. Another record in point a in this change, measuring the circumference of a tree at an altitude of 5 cm on the ground, causes unnecessary complications, i.e. the need to measure the circumference at two heights - 5 cm above the ground and 1,30 m in the chest, because other regulations remain, which make these measurements measure and use the circumference at a height of 1,30 m. On the other hand, the third amendment includes the fees for the cut-off. The applicants did not explain where these proposals came from. For example, High Izbo, the rate of 763,77 PLN per centimetre of tree circumference in the range 101 to 200 cm. This gives, for example, an amount of PLN 152,754 for the removal of a tree with a circumference of 200 cm. On the other hand, the rate per tree with a circumference of 1 cm larger, already from the next compartment, in the amount of PLN 681,63 per cm of circumference, amounts to 137 007,63 PLN or about 15 thousand. zł less. Nonsense, nonsense just. In turn, why introduce differential rates depending on the location of the tree or shrub? The rules should be simple, understandable, easy to apply. Unfortunately, this project is far from those standards. The critical assessment of the draft in print 1317 was expressed in a vote at a committee meeting which decided to reject it at first reading by 22 votes in favour, 10 against, with no abstentions. High Izbo! Another bill, contained in print No 1361, was submitted by the Modern Club. He entered the marshal's staff on 6 March this year, and his first reading took place yesterday at the committee meeting. Unfortunately, it contains very many inconsistencies, inconsistencies, contradictions and vague wordings. It is difficult to calculate them all because of the thinness of the time spent in this debate. The first example on the shore. Art. 1, second amendment, adding Article. 40a containing the definition of protected greenery. I quote: "Greens are protected by individual trees and shrubs, their clusters or pools of particular natural, scientific, cultural, historical or landscape value, deserving of protection because of their role in reducing air pollution, noise or air temperature, aesthetic importance, importance for preserving biodiversity or recreational functions provided to the population.' End of quote. This definition proposal is imprecise because what area is it supposed to be? Is it 200 m2 or 2000 m2 or a hectare? Who and how should she be supervised? The proposed provision in the third amendment only states that the establishment of protected greenery is to be by way of a resolution of the commune council. Where and how to consult the landlord? After all, the establishment of such a form of protection would give rise to claims by the landlord for damages, that is obvious. As for the proposed amendment of the seventh surrogate plantings, these are further non-precise rules, which do not specify e.g. the location of these required plantings, which should be near where the green was removed, because they are to compensate for this removal. I would like to remind you that substitute plantings in print 1361 are mandatory, which does not seem to be a good solution. As explained in the committee debate yesterday, local authorities are very reluctant to use substitute plantings, because the obliged entities perform them carelessly, and I will say it colloquially - on a detachable basis. They do not nurture what only generates costs for the local government, and it does not result in an increase in the number of green areas. Mr President, would you kindly consider the minutes of the committee, where the representative of the administration responsible for environmental protection in m. Warsaw has just given us this information. I have no reason not to believe this clerk, who was giving us this information yesterday at the committee meeting, or to claim that she was deliberately misleading us. That's... [[Game in the O.R.]] Please? [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u191	This is a perfectly reliable translation, ladies and gentlemen. There is no point in introducing mandatory plantings, because they are ineffective, do not result in an increase in greenery and after this assigned period of 3 years there are stumps that no one has watered during these 3 years. This mandatory recipe is ineffective, I say it again with all responsibility. It generates costs for local governments and does not result in an increase in the number of green areas. Self - government prefers to take money, and prefers to plant it, to cultivate it. On the other hand, the 11th amendment contains fees - the truth is that they are slightly lower than those included in the Civic Platform project, but it contains e.g. 100 PLN for the cut-out of pear or apple trees, and they are not subject to fees in the current legal state. Why such a regress and why make life difficult for people? It is difficult to discuss all the proposed changes in detail here. These are three points, we have a short time to debate. I will not go into detail, I will only say briefly that the Environment Committee has decided to recommend that the High House reject the draft in print 1361 at first reading. The resolution was adopted by 17 votes in favour, with 9 against, and no one abstained. High Izbo! I move to the presentation of the draft amendment to the Nature Conservation Act in print No 1334, submitted by the Law and Justice Club on 3 March 2017. [[This isn't about.]] His first reading took place on March 22. The report of the Environmental Committee is contained in print No 1337. The draft shall maintain the provisions of Article. Paragraph 83f. 1 points 3a and 3b authorising the cut-off on the private owner's land for non-economic purposes and for the restoration of agricultural use. As we read in the justification for this project, the changes made will give us the opportunity to verify whether the cut-off was actually carried out for non-economic purposes. The natural person who wants to cut the trees on his property will be obliged to report it to the competent municipal authority. The Office will, in turn, keep a register of notifications, examine the facts and draw up a minutes of inspections to be made available to the persons concerned. The Office may object within 14 days of the inspection. It may also, if there are no grounds for objection, issue a non-substantiation certificate before the expiry of that period. If no objection is raised, the owner may cut out the trees. On the other hand, if, within 5 years of the inspection, a decision on the construction permit is requested and the construction is related to the operation of the business and will be carried out on the part of the property on which the tree has grown, the competent authority shall impose an obligation to pay the appropriate removal fee. The draft contains provisions imposing an obligation on the Minister responsible for the environment to determine the rates of removal fees which depend on the type or species of tree or the circumference of the trunk. Until rates are fixed, maximum rates shall apply. The Act is to enter into force after 14 days, with the exception of the provisions giving legal basis for the adoption of regulations setting out the criteria for recognition as natural monuments and the rate of removal fees which enter into force six months after the date of publication. High Izbo! The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry adopted the draft amendment to the Nature Conservation Act contained in the committee's report in print no 1337.17 votes were in favour, 11 against, and no one abstained. Thank you very much. [[You don't know how to write a report.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u192	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Małgorzata Golińska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u193	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the proposed parliamentary drafts of the laws amending the Nature Conservation Act contained in prints 1317, 1334 and 1361. High Izbo! The amendment of the Nature Conservation Act adopted by the Sejm on 16 December 2016 aimed at increasing citizens' rights to own their property, giving farmers the right to restore land free of charge to the state of agricultural use and eliminating social injustice, as the official had discretionary power to decide who could and who could not cut down trees on private property. There are known cases where a local government for another local government was relieved of the penalty for illegal clippings when there were good relations between boaters, and there are known cases where, for political reasons alone, such a penalty was applied irrevocablely. There are known cases of different treatment of investors whose interests were higher than nature conservation and, on the other hand, there was no pity for the ordinary citizen removing the tree on his own property. In addition, the Supreme Audit Chamber drew attention to this in its report in 2015. It is a pity that at that time the opposition, which today supposedly defends trees supposedly mass-cut by supposedly disrespectful Polish citizens, was silent. It was quiet when trees were losing to new neighborhoods, shopping galleries, because many self-governments placed the interest of investors first, with a light hand, agreeing to the cutting of trees. Today, when it comes to the ordinary citizen, unfortunately, regardless of the facts or the actual provisions of the bill, the opposition, winding up the political goal, made a media chase, symbolized by a squirrel allegedly without a home after the alleged cut-off. As Members of the Parliamentary Club, we do not withdraw from important social and expected changes, but because some of the dishonest people or companies have deliberately abused or violated the provisions of the law, and we have decided to clarify them in response to the demands of the social community. In this parliamentary print No 1334, to which the applicants tabled amendments during the committee meeting, and in the subsequent amendments which I will submit to your marshals, there are provisions that will give the opportunity to verify whether the cut-off was actually carried out for purposes not related to economic activity. For this purpose, the owner of the property shall notify the intention to remove the trees and shall, in the event of non-objection by the authority within 14 days of the inspection, make a clipping. What is very important, the authority may object only if it is found that the tree is located on the property entered in the register of monuments, in the area designated in the local zoning plan for greenery or protected by other records. These records give an opportunity to react where notification of the removal was made not due to economic activity, and within 5 years against that declaration a building permit was requested for business purposes, and that is to say the part of the property on which the tree grew. The Law and Justice Club welcomes the provisions proposed in print No 1334. During the committee meeting we also discussed a print project No 1361 submitted by a group of members from the club. Modern. The Members of the Projectors considered that the citizens did not understand what a treasure nature was to them, they did not know its beneficial effects on health, so introducing prohibitions and orders. N citizens will teach this because, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, the idea is to have a greater awareness of nature conservation, its values and its impact on human health. And that's why, here's another quote, entities will have to obtain appropriate consent before they are removed. This is not enough, an environmental compensation order and sanctions are introduced for failure to comply with it, and according to the report NIK planted under compensation new trees are often of low quality, and unsecured and non-failed - quickly die. The authors of the project grant local governments the right to recognise a specific element or elements of greenery as protected greens, to which restrictions apply as to natural monuments, although they are not monuments. And all because, as the applicants claim, the law allowed the protection of objects of objectively unique value, and the applicants want to protect the green which, according to the criteria, does not represent a unique value, but the elements of greenery in private areas are a close element of nature for the inhabitants of the area. Member State from. N, in Polish law, a natural monument is not the only form of protection. We also have national parks, nature reserves, landscape parks, protected landscape areas, Natura 2000 areas with special habitat protection areas, documenting sites, ecological crops or finally natural-landscape teams, and even species protection of trees, plants and fungi. We have a 30% forestation of our country, and I will remind you that in the State Forests more than half of the land is protected forests of various ointments. Is it really necessary to add protection to the private property of a private owner of a small tree growing there? You also write that this is a tool for local governments, because there are no others. They don't, they do, but as no one points out, they don't use them. They have competence in planning and spatial planning, granting permits for the removal of trees, establishing natural compensation, issuing decisions on building permits. Most of the examples cited by the states of urban clippings are the result of local government negligence in the application of the law. That's not enough, Art. The 78th Act requires the municipal council to establish and maintain green areas and trees in good condition. As you write, and here again a quote, the proposed records should be acceptable to the owners of private parcels. Well, I'm afraid not. The introduction of such rules would lead to the fact that, as you call citizens, entities would not choose to plant any species on private property for fear that a civil servant would consider them valuable to the well-being of a neighbour and would include bans. The Law and Justice Club does not support such a forced, supposedly modern natural lesson. During the committee meeting, we requested that this modern project be rejected at first reading. Another of the projects under discussion, a print project No. 1317, in the design of the authors, as explained in the justification of the project, was aimed primarily at tightening the existing rules, which today allow the owner of the plot, unless he intends to conduct business activities, to freely dispose of his land in the field of tree cutting. Interestingly, by introducing strict provisions that hinder the formation of greenery in their backyard, the designers wanted, and here the quote, to increase public awareness of the importance of the surrounding nature. In short, according to the authors, this official is to give permission to what the owners will do in their own backyard, it is the official who knows better how the greenery should be shaped in our backyard, and it is the official who must be convinced that the tree or shrub is unnecessary there, hinders, and it is best to wait until it threatens us, because then the official in his favor may make the decision we ask him for, and we will get a valuable lesson in the value of the surrounding nature. When we read into the content of the changes proposed for individual articles, however, we have examples of the kindness of the authors themselves from the POs. An example? The entry proposed in Article. 83f - we are allowed to remove shrubs whose age does not exceed 10 years. Only a horse with a row of those who can tell the age of such a young shrub with very thin shoots. There are two exits, either for 10 years to keep a receipt for buying a shrub, or to apply to a professional company to try to determine the age. A kuriozum? No. According to the authors of the project, this is, I will remind you, an influence on the awareness of the value of nature. I think that after the company has received the bill for dendrological analysis, every citizen will know the value of nature. The authors of the project also propose - and here, farmers - to remove the entry allowing the removal of trees or shrubs in order to restore unused land for agricultural use. Yes, according to the authors of the farmers' project, we also need to teach respect for nature. Again, they propose to farmers known from the past situations in which they are obliged on the one hand to maintain land in good agricultural culture, on the other hand, to make agricultural use possible, and of course to pay for it. The authors of the project in their graciousness allow an exception, the possibility to withdraw from the payment of the fee e.g. for removing the platan, because as we know, it is this tree that grows most often in agricultural areas, not some reckless birch or pine, but just platana, and it is about circumference, at the place of measurement, 75 cm. And then the farmer can be exempt from the fee. [[Applause]] A completely different measurement and other values of circuits are proposed by authors for other citizens, non-farmers. For them, the measurement of trees is to be made not in the breast, where the trunk is already smooth and simple, but at a height of 5 cm from the ground - a measurement which is inaccurate and overstated, because just at the root neck there are various ointments of udder lumps, influxes and root influxes, folds or growths, and even growths that make it difficult to measure. These bizarre provisions proposed by the party supposedly citizen hit citizens, are socially unfair, restrict property rights, make life difficult for farmers, introduce double standards of measurement, restore the need to pay fees and force the search for specialist companies to measure the age of shrubs for a salty fee. Law and Justice do not agree to these records. We do not support this form of awareness of the value of nature among citizens and therefore we have made a request, adopted by the committee, to reject this harmful project at first reading. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club does not support projects in print 1317 and 1361, and supports project 1334, which I am making amendments to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u194	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. I invite Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot of hypocrisy, a lot of false words... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: From the project.]] ...but the most outrageous thing is the attitude towards friends and colleagues from opposition clubs:.N, allegedly civic. [[I'm sorry. How do you read?]] I was thinking, if I wanted to be malicious, I'd decipher the PiS shortcut: a saw and an axe, because it's your symbol, it symbolizes you. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Dendrolog spoke.]] The saw and axe is indeed a good symbol to define the PiS and the bill that you pushed through at night, in silence, in a scandalous and unconstitutional manner in the column room on 16 December 2016. [[Citizens are listening.]] You're ashamed of this project, you're ashamed of it until today. I'll tell you more, your president has already noticed that this project is highly lobbyist. He was talking about it in public... [[Where?]] ...and you're still in the same place... [[Tell me when and where.]] ...so you're still making a law that's scandalously wrong. You're talking about caring, talking about important things, leaning over the fate of farmers. I agree, you have to lean over the fate of everyone... [[Yeah, especially with those pancakes. Grace.]] ...a citizen, every Pole, only in the end I wonder why you are not interested in the health of people. You know it's $40,000. Poles die of smog every year? Do you know that trees have a significant impact on the reduction of smog, the nuisance of air quality in Polish cities? But you don't care why. You have your lobbyist actions and actually function in this area. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You do not believe what you say.]] I'll tell you more. I'm looking through the prism of the bill that you've filed, which has flown into the marshal's staff, and then it's... [[Mr President, you will end up on the ethics committee.]] ...you pushed through the environmental committee, which says that the fees will be charged when a tree is cut down on some part of the property, and then business activities will be carried out on some part of the property. Excuse me, which part? [[Then read it, because the recipe is precise.]] It is not important on which part, because whether the fee will be charged will be decided by an official in the municipality. So this is a giant area for further abuse... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Reading the rules with understanding is clear.]] ...in connection with the fact that the officials will actually make the decisions. How will they make decisions? Oh, yeah, if the clerk gets along because he's gonna interpret it. That's the law you make. The law, which is created in a sloppy and disdainful manner, because you do not want to create a good law, you do not really want to ensure that in Poland regulations concerning... [[What are you impputing us with?]] ...environmental protection, nature conservation were built in a transparent way. You had good projects submitted by the Civic Platform club, a good project submitted by... [[Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] ...the Modern Club, but you didn't want to discuss it at all, because it's always best for you to throw something in the basket. We'll see it in the fall, we'll see it, I'm sure of it. Pilars will return to Polish cities, trees will still be cut, because you haven't regulated anything. You guys really have a lot to be ashamed of in this part. A saw and an axe is a symbol you should be proud of. I wonder what words to use to make you realize that it's not like you can say one word to each other and the local government will solve the problem. When you give a local government two weeks to solve a problem, you know it won't solve it. Development plans for individual properties shall be drawn up a year or more. You use simple terms: 230 thousand. trees cut out. My fellow Member, millions planted, but you are not interested in it, because you can only see stumps. You do not see all this, which is related to what was actually in force before, i.e. plantings related to the obligation arising from previous regulations. Polish cities were green because of it, but it's not important to you. [[4922 cut out last year, somehow you forget about it, from decisions made...]] All you have to do is dress in green is that it is enough for the problem of green Polish cities. That is not enough, Member. [[Applause]] You need plants, you need trees to care for quality, for Poles in Polish cities, unless it is already foreign to you. I'm just thinking that this is alien to you because you've already won the election, and you don't have to deal with the voters. [[If you would like to make a point, please refer to the projects.]] Indeed, you cannot go straight on these matters on the agenda. Your bill doesn't regulate anything, it just builds administration in local governments, in municipalities, because not only will you have to apply for tree cutting, but you will have to monitor it for another 5 years. Officials will have to go there, see if they're in business. It's fatal. [[No, you didn't. You didn't read it.]] More, I'll say it again, this project generates corruption. Only so much of this project, if it is accepted, can result. I would therefore like to make a proposal on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, to reject this project at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Nothing new under the sun, sir. You haven't worked too hard.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u196	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz. I would like to ask the Members to cool their emotions and to remain calm in the courtroom. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: What about malice, your marshal?]] All I hear right now is the voices of the messengers. [[Mr Gawłowski simply violates standards.]] Ladies, please calm down. Please take the floor of Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You used to say trees die standing up. Now they're dying, falling in love, like in the title of a movie that's made such an impression on all of us lately. [[Oh, bad, bad.]] Your Marshal, I would ask very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u198	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u199	Ladies behave at the right level. I think you ladies aren't knights, you're ladies of good change, and...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u200	I would ask you to remain calm and not comment from the Chamber of Members and Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u201	Anyway, I'm not gonna get provoked. I just wanted to tell you what the essence of this change is. It's not just a mass section that illustrates your approach not only to nature, but also to people. The essence is, in fact, how your laws are dealt with: on your knees, without an assessment of the effects of regulation. Today we ask in the committee what the consequences of your night bill are, and the minister, the main conservationist of nature, breaks down his hands because he doesn't know. This bill made him not know, not control, not check. Nor does he examine the effects of this regulation, the exclusion of nature conservation in natural areas by amending the Law on forests. Maybe that's why the Minister forbids it. entrance to the Bialowieza Forest? So we don't see what's going on out there so there's no witnesses. [[What does a gingerbread have to do with a windmill and what does it put in our bill?]] Maybe it's because of that. The same is true of this bill now. I was really amused that further amendments to the amendments had been tabled. You do not know the content of your bill, do not know the content of the amendments, nor do you know the content of the amendments. You read them at committee meetings. You're not even gonna see to it that you dissipate them earlier. What is it? The point is to create an impression - because the president wanted to - that something was being done, but really to preserve this state, which is, this state of disregard and contempt for nature and for people. I appeal once again to lean on the project and not reject the Platform project, which really restores the former state, which opens the way for a fair discussion and consultation with experts, consultation with local government and NGOs, and a leaning towards the Modern project. Perhaps together we can work out solutions that are reliable and correct, because what you have proposed works against these ideas. Within 2 weeks the municipality may - perhaps, not necessarily - object. But the criteria for this objection will be produced by the Minister of the Environment for six months, because you have justified in committee that that's all it takes to prepare the regulation fairly. And three days is enough for a bill, and it's a law that interferes not only in nature, but also in the sense of ownership, in constitutional law, in the law of the European Union. There is no need to think, read with understanding or articulate it at the legislative level. [[There is a need to read the legal provisions with understanding, Madame.]] I call once again for the vote to bend over - and jointly propose a constructive and decent solution in accordance with decent legislative principles - to the Platform project and the Modern project. Thank you. [[$250,000. trees in Warsaw.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u202	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask you to remain calm. You're not on the stand right now. Calm down, please. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the attitude to property in the context of what is being done here, there is no difference between the Modern and the Civic Platform and the PiS. In both cases, you just treat individual property as something that you can individually... Not individually, just institutionally available. [[Not individually, but stately.]] Yes, even in a state, Mrs Niedziela. I would like to present to you the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft laws amending the Nature Conservation Act contained in prints 1317, 1334 and 1361. Each of these proposals refers to the amendments introduced on 16 December 2016 to the Nature Conservation Act, giving the owner of the property not forest but treed in various ways, e.g. through samosiejki, the right to limited, including other regulations, clippings of trees and shrubs. In the opinion of the Poselski Kukiz Club15 and the reasonably thoughtful Poles, the solution adopted at that time - although under special circumstances - was one of the few solutions proposed by the PiS, which correspond to the Poles. However, as a result of the pressures of different ointments of leftist environmentalists, it was decided to change what was good to what was supposedly better, and indeed much worse. PiS has been subjected to media pressure. Dramatic descriptions of the extermination of trees and shrubs were cited, and when confronted with reality, it turned out that this section of trees was either pre-planned under previous regulations and was based on administrative decisions by local authorities, or was not in accordance with the rules, because it concerned forest areas where the management of trees takes place under other rules. Or the number of trees allegedly cut out on the basis of the so-called. lex Szyszko was greatly exaggerated, symbolizing the famous oaks from the vicinity of Łódź, whose name was to cut about 200, and in fact 10 pieces were cut. Only Kukiz15, bearing in mind the well-being of Poles, being aware of their reasonableness in the management of property, did not react hysterically to a media scream about mass cutting of trees and shrubs, a media scream that had nothing to do with the facts. The PO and the Modern One took advantage of the possibility of digging up Law and Justice. Apart from the fact that their proposals are detrimental to Poles, they have generally proposed a return to the state before 16 December 2016, with a lot of legislative errors in the Modern project, e.g. concerning the non-precision definition of a new form of nature protection, protected greenery and the financial consequences of this for the local government and the land owner. The adoption of this definition would result in a restriction on ownership by a private owner. He would have to submit to the local government dictatorship and bear the cost of maintaining the protected greenery, and at the same time he would not have been able to do business on it or even build a house. Unfortunately, similar solutions were proposed by Law and Justice in print No 1334. I will pay much more attention to the PiS project because it has a more realistic chance because of parliamentary arithmetic to enter into force than I discussed earlier. This draft introduces provisions which were supposed to allow for verification of whether the logging of trees and shrubs was carried out for purposes not related to economic activity or intended to serve them. This is ridiculous. Because instead of stimulating economic development, the PiS actually inhibits it. In these arrangements, it is proposed that a natural person who wishes to cut trees or shrubs into his own property should report them, and that he/she should not be able to carry out business activities in those areas where the trees were cut out for a period of 5 years after the application was made. In case... [[But this provision is nowhere to be found, sir. Please read this.]] Excuse me, Madame, it is evident that Mr Skurkiewicz introduced yesterday's amendment, unless you are now withdrawing from it under the new amendments. But you had to inform the High House earlier. If it is found that economic activity is carried out within 5 years after the application has been made, it will be imposed on the above mentioned. Punishment persons. Before I go to make a few comments on this proposal, I would like to make a statement expressed by one of the Internet users. Uncensored words in his statements are replaced by so-called. Parliamentary, although in this Parliament many times words and accompanying behaviours did not have much to do with the so-called. Parliamentary culture. Well, this Internet guy says. I solemnly declare that if the changes to the bill go in this direction, then the Parliamentary Club of the PiS are... - and here three dots, because you can't really quote this adjective to the PIS. He further states that the dumber proposals were only made after this Marxist Viking from the Party together could be expected. The proposal of the law contained in print No 1334 removes the right to own the property to Poles. PiS MEPs assume that Poles act against their interests. It imposes additional responsibilities on local governments, but even worse, it is a solution that is easy to circumvent, and thus not only that it urges, but it forces Poles to conspire. The proposal is also legally fatal, introducing new categories of ownership, part of the property. The Legislating Bureau paid attention to this. The proposal is contrary to the Perpetual Books Act, as well as to the applicable standards for the marketing of immovable property. The proposal in print No 1334, according to a Bolshevik assumption: give me a man, and I will find a stick on him, introduces responsibility for cutting out trees for business activity on the current owner of the property, who does not need to know that trees were cut out on the plot he purchased. This was also highlighted by the Legislative Office of the Sejm, stating that this is an absurd legal standard and enforcement procedure. The idea of PiS imposes nonsensical responsibilities on local governments. Yeah, it's ridiculous, because that's what even those self-government officials who haven't been consulted haven't been asked. These duties are to keep an open register of notifications of every tree or shrub cutting, to inspect each piece by local authorities. I think the PiS wants another sympathizer to hire a rapper on the list of trees and shrubs cut out. Where are you gonna get the money for that? 'Cause you're gonna have your own candidates for this job. This is absurd, as well as the entire act included in print 1334. But that's what happens when you listen to the warden, not to reason. Kukiz Club15 in general, because as you know, we have no discipline, we will vote against all these three drafts of the bill. We want to maintain the current legal situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u204	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u205	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about three prints: each one is different and here we have this gradation. The purpose of our project, Modern, i.e. printing 1361, is to balance the proportion between the current laws allowing mass cutting of trees and shrubs and even trees of particular natural value - I am aware that you have made amendments, but this will be at least 4 months when it is possible to cut out what falls, and these are trees of high natural, cultural or landscape value - and the law that was in force earlier, i.e. too restrictive, before 1 January 2017. The proposed amendment of the law is intended to reduce the increased cutting of trees and shrubs, but at the same time to give owners in private areas the opportunity to cut out small-value trees and small-value trees that are easy to compensate for. Thus, this law would partially restore the legal status which was in force before 1 January 2017. But on 1 January, and first on 16 December in a mode that was not in accordance with the rules of the Seym during the meeting in the column room of the PiS without a dot, he actually adopted with his votes and Kukiz the amendment of the Act on Nature Conservation. The revision of the rules has led to a fundamental change in the approach to the protection of trees and shrubs. It's fundamental. I am saying this because here we are aware that this permission of the PiS without a dot, not only that it allowed the trees to be cut out according to this new law, it also gave such a little social permission to cut what will happen, because there is an opportunity. And it's still happening. Although the new amendment proposed by PiS changes this situation in part, it does not change the fact that this is happening throughout Poland. And pretending this isn't happening is just... I'm not gonna use non-parliamental words here. As a result, even a new law is being broken, it is liberalised. The scale of the phenomenon turned out to be really frightening. This is, of course, the consequence of this imprecise recording. Our bill is designed to limit the possibility of mass clippings, but at the same time to give those owners who want to own their property, to cut into the construction of a house or other plantings... [[Voice from the room: What?]] ...trees and shrubs from your land. Another concrete proposal is to give local governments permission to adopt resolutions and to establish the so-called. protected greenery. You mentioned here that local governments have enough powers, but local governments, ladies and gentlemen, this is something that has been the most successful in Poland for many, many years. Self-governments use their powers very wisely. Giving them a chance to prevent the trees from being cut out, because it's the local authorities that know what's going on in their territory, where there are these valuable trees, even if they're not natural monuments... [[Then decide whether they know or not.]] ...it's this competence that would give those who know best what's going on with them, in their territory, to protect nature, because the Sejm, as you know, is not gonna do it. The owner or tenant is very often the local government, who knows best what is happening to him. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: This is why he cuts out.]] If you considered all these three projects together, we would have a chance to get perhaps the best out of the Civic Platform project, from our project and from your project, and to do a thoughtful project, consulted with all possible NGOs, and we really have great experts there. And the law would be wise, reasonable and acceptable to all residents and residents of Poland. But you'd rather do it just like it's on your knees. During these 4 months, which are running at the moment, it can be said that the PiS and lex Szyszko axes caused thousands of trees to disappear from the landscape of Poland forever, among them. Old-fashioned. What I said on the committee, when I mentioned the site where the inhabitants of many towns and cities report clippings, of course not all these votes are checked. But what does that say? If people report that something bad is happening in the neighborhood, in the community, in their cities, the old trees are being cut out... [[This is the result of your hysteria.]] ...that's something that needs to be taken into account. And it's not hysteria. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a dog's duty to be a Member, to seek out what the law is... [[That still needs to be learned the truth, not duplicated the fake.]] Exactly. We asked as a modern minister of the environment, not to confuse with environmental protection, I ask you, what are the consequences of this law that PiS passed in the column room. And what did it turn out to be? As if the Minister had completely ignored the request of Members, he had prepared only from such points as the law was in force. This was more about the existing law, rather than what is happening at the moment. So the citizens and Members have been taken away from the minister's explanation, which in addition... Not to mention that the Minister made this explanation a month or more, perhaps a month and a half after we asked him to explain it. Let me remind you, Madam President, that it is our dog's duty as Members to see how the law we have adopted works. [[As long as it is effective and without prejudice, Member. Don't lie to me in public.]] This is our responsibility, among others. Madam, because you voted for it, too. And now let's move on to the specific amendments that have been tabled recently, at the last minute by the PiS at the committee meeting. For example, the Minister for the Environment is to specify in the regulation which he will adopt for how long the rigid parameters of trees and other living and inanimate creatures, which classify them for monumental protection, are unknown. The local government may object if the tree or shrub submitted for cutting falls within the parameters and is in the conservation area, in protected areas established by the municipality or in areas included in the plan as green areas or otherwise protecting green areas. However, it is not possible for the local government to object in cases where the plant does not fall within the parameters of the regulation, but is valuable due to landscape or other important in the context of the social and common good. These proposals limit the competences of local authorities. That's right, we're proposing enlargement, and you're proposing a limitation. It also depends much on the environmental minister's regulation on criteria for recognising living and inanimate nature objects as natural monuments, the content of which we know nothing yet and we will not know for a long time. The risk also creates an amendment concerning the day of the opposition, which is to be the day of the letter with that decision in the post office. It has not been specified which letter it is about: whether the registered consignment with acknowledgement of receipt or ordinary. [[Madam President, this is a legislative standard. Don't embarrass yourself.]] If, for some reason, the letter fails in time and the unwitting objector cuts down the tree, he will face a penalty of twice the cost of removing the tree. In the mouth. 16, on which we have recently examined, applicants propose that a 5-year ban should be imposed on the part of the property from which the plants have been cut out, even if the body referred to in Article. Article 83a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (iii) (a) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) One, he didn't object. This raises some doubts in the light of the article. 22 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which states that the restriction of freedom of economic activity is permitted only by law and only because of the important public interest. If the government does not object to the clipping and there will also be no opposition from the public, so nothing will prevent this would allow, for example. to build a car mechanic's plant. Every once in a while... Does that even make sense? Perhaps it would be appropriate for large-scale construction plans, which would involve cutting out many trees, but with small-scale cuttings This provision is absurd to the provisions that were in place before the amendment of 16 December 2016. And to sum up, ladies and gentlemen, as a modern... [[Period.]] As a modern one, I'm about to find a motion to reject this printing... [[What are you putting together?]] ...in full.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u206	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u207	Thank you. [[That's not good.]] We're hoping the PiS will reconsider. [[♪ The bell ♪]] its amendments and the last reading of the committee will accept the amendments which it has proposed, inter alia. The Civic Platform, because this bill is still wrong. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u208	Thank you very much, Member. And I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u209	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There wouldn't be this emotion and this whole debate today if it weren't for the so-called. lex Szysko. I keep wondering where this lex Szyszko came from, because Minister Szyszko keeps cutting himself off from this bill, says: I don't care, it's not my bill... [[Ask your opposition colleagues.]] ...is a group of Members. Not from the opposition, my fellow Member. Such a media message is: Minister Szyszko... [[Ask your opposition colleagues.]] ...she cuts herself off from this bill, Minister Szyszko does not want to be responsible for the Polish green, for protecting this green, this protected green. Of course, changes to the so-called law. The cutting of the trees was necessary, but the cosmetic changes were needed. You couldn't give in to such emotions and suddenly wipe out all the well-functioning solutions. Of course, the citizen has the right to have it on his property, but we are talking here about the mass cuts that have taken place. And let's not tell you, let's not tell people today that we forbid them to cut down trees on their parcels. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You forbid.]] Most of us have a little green around the house. I've got one too, and I'm cutting it out, so far there's been no problem. If it was an older tree... [[Exactly.]] ...it was necessary to go to the commune, to obtain such a decision in the course of even one day, and if it took several days, it was also... [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: In his local government for sure.]] ...necessary. What you've done, on the other hand, is very barbaric. And it's not a media chase. This isn't really a media chase, because your president himself, your warden, has said several times that there's a suspicion that the lobbyists are behind this... [[When and where, say it. Don't whine.]] ...that it's not a pure matter that the bill is wrong, that the law introduced under the cover of the night is a bad bill. Besides, you're having second thoughts about this. You're sharing with each other here. It wasn't the opposition that prevented the creation of a good bill, the improvement of what you ruined. You were having second thoughts. You announced breaks, there was a committee meeting three times, the bill was written not even at the committee meeting, but during committee breaks. Every day, you didn't know what to do at any of the meetings. Because here, on the one hand, the social pressure is to finally stop what is happening to our greenery, and on the other hand, you want to keep these stupid, unreasonable solutions as long as possible. And so half the club, half the piss committee was in favor, half against. And yesterday, under some pressure, you managed to force it, force your own Members to vote in favour of this bill. But it was under duress, let's face it. After all, it was evident at the committee meeting that the Members of the PiS do not want these solutions, because these are very bad solutions, restrictive, much worse. The bill is imprecise, a lot of doubt is... [[Then decide whether you praise her or criticize her.]] ...as far as the interpretation of these proposals is concerned, what is part of the plot. And as for imposing such responsibilities and responsibilities on the government, it is a question of what forces, for what money, because it is a big responsibility today. It is a big responsibility - for 5 years to control and check that the citizen is not doing business. Question: what business activity, to what extent? That's all... [[And where did you find this ban, sir?]] ...it's all presumptuous. No one could answer, no one could clearly answer to what extent. [[Where did you find this ban?]] You had those doubts, don't tell me... You guys left the committee meeting, didn't you? Your fellow Members were leaving. And today is saying: you have to make a good bill, you have to make a good bill that will finish this wrong dance. We, as the Polish People's Party, were not looking for any emotions here, we saw this threat. We've taken action in handing out trees and planting trees. And listen, how many times have I participated in these different [[Joy in the Chamber]] meetings, how many people I've heard about what was done after December 16th, it's unthinkable. People were happy to take these trees, some of them a few, a dozen of them, because they wanted to make up for it. And I was just saying, "We have to do this so fast to keep up with the clippings, so we can plant more than you can... than you're interested in... I don't know whose people it is, whether it's the lobbyists, because I didn't figure it out, but Chief Kaczyński said he'd check it out and the right institutions would figure it out. But at some point I felt sorry for the PiS Members, because they were left by the resort completely alone and did not know what to do with it, no one helped them. Minister... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Oj, oj, oj...]] ...he didn't take any position. Minister Szyszko cuts off, says: I heard something was going on, but it is the Members who do it and I think they will fix it. Well, your minister left you like this. That is why I think that even if the Minister does not want to take care of environmental protection, the protection of our greenery, it can take away these powers, these powers contained in the Law on Departments, hand them over, I don't know, the Minister of Development, the other Ministry will create. It was clear she didn't want to do it. [[Mr President, let's get back to the point.]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, one more thing. The bill is supposed to be processed quickly, every week dates are given, how many months have passed, I already skipped the 16th of December. On the other hand, all these restrictions, clarifications, clarifications are contained in the Regulation and the Regulation can enter into force in 6 months at the earliest. The Minister stated yesterday that six months is not enough, so I ask whether the Ministry has no knowledge of how to protect the Polish nature, what is in our grove, what are the natural monuments we have. How has it worked up to now that we need to start over and process? Therefore, we cannot allow the law to enter into force in six months or a year, because it will actually start to function in such a period. [[You've read the article. Two?]] Of course there is a bill, but these most important things are written down in regulations, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I am making a proposal, and I am making an amendment so that this period of 6 months can be reduced to 1 month. That knowledge in the ministry should have been up to now. If not, the Ministry has not done its job so far. That's the amendment I'm calling for. I am convinced that this bill proposed by the PiS will not be overruled because some sense and some reasonable Members who feel this subject, see this evil, are also in the PiS and you will have a fair, honest discussion here. What was supposed to happen was already done, so now it's time to make a reasonable, good, normal bill. This law is much worse when it comes to restrictions, since the previous, and also illegible, discretion at practically every moment. The mess will be total, which is why we will vote against this law, and I am proposing this amendment if, unfortunately, this law is to come in to shorten the period, the deadline for issuing the regulation by 1 month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u210	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for the amendment, thank you very much. I invite Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Members' Circle of the European Union of Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try briefly, but I will refer to a few things in the sense of a general assessment, because the factography, I think, has already been exhausted in this debate. The PiS-owska majority in the committee you were so proud of is the same majority who thought Mr Szyszko was a very good minister. [[It is.]] In my opinion, it stands first as the worst minister of this government, or perhaps all governments, in terms of environmental protection. The competition is strong, and I congratulate Mr. Szyszko, in these competitions he goes head-to-head with a couple of dozen more. I don't really understand this tree-cutting frenzy. What's the point here anyway? I was just looking for answers, and I only found one rational one. He's just fighting post-communism, Mr. Szyszko, because these are trees that were planted in communist times, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Some still in the General Governor's office. As a true patriot, he simply struggles with all traces of German and Soviet violence over Poland. And that's Mr. Szyszko's rational action. I promise that if we do, and we will see for sure, that Poland will be anti-kaczystyczna and anti-kaczysts will rule, we will not cut out those trees that Mr.Szyszko is planting today, that is, we will not avenge ourselves on trees. They're the duckies, I promise. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: To the circus.]] As for this argument to close, so to speak, this debating part, this argument, quite gibberish, Mr. Kukiz, I would say that they are part of this whole party. I was asked how this party appeared in Parliament, how to vote: Mr, you know how to vote, how long have you been here, how to vote? I told him: listen, it's very simple, there's one sitting there, he doesn't really look like a Member, but he sits in a sweater mostly, and see how he votes, and always vote the other way around. In this situation, I, too, view this speech as a completely absurd statement about leftist environmentalists. I must congratulate you. This is baldness, this is baldness. There was a bourgeois genetics that led, as we know, to the search for wheat grains in life, so-called. Remediation. I must say that ecology is one of the most necessary teachings today. At a time when 7 billion people in the world need to be fed when there are endangered species... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Zenada.]] ...talking about left-wing ecology is just gibberish and I support what I said. All that philosophy you're... [[Game in the O.R.]] Would you mind, national hero... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: I can't because you insult everyone. Stop insulting everyone.]] ...against the Reich, a hero of war with the German Reich, a well-deserved Polish Eryto Stein, Eryko Stein, could you... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u212	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u213	...shut up for a second?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u214	I'm asking you to calm down. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Please reassure the Member.]] Madam, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u215	Would you mind shutting up? [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Please stop insulting me.]] Please count your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u216	Mr. President, calm down. Madam, I ask you to calm down. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Please calm Mr Niesiołowski.]] See you later, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u217	Finish your PiS yak. Ladies and gentlemen, about this philosophy... [[Voice from the Chamber: Madame, it is not possible to hold a sitting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u218	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u219	But what? So, what, throw her out? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u220	I'm asking you to calm down. A moment of silence in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u221	Throw her out? Throw her out!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u222	Mr President, let me get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u223	But he's gonna have to calm down. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Please do not insult me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u224	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u225	Count me off for half a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a philosophy which here in the courtroom collides with the reality that the owner - and this is the good of this law - has the right to cut out trees on his plot. This is where the PiS restored the right to own the property. Forgive the shortcut, but that's the point and Minister Szyszko is very proud of it. Ladies and gentlemen, that's fine, fine, but if you peasants don't sell land, if you put your hands on property, the farmers don't get it, but, yeah, I guess they're starting to get it. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You do not understand.]] ...and they're going to Warsaw - if you're not allowed to own your land, stay out of the trees. Because it's like this: you can't sell the land, but you can cut the trees. This PiS-owska bill is a law that actually applies, so to speak, to further clippings. I think the point is for Minister Szyszko to keep his face, so there are no real concessions there. But it's Mr. Szyszko's facial behaviour that's a little bit like Liechtenstein's fighting to preserve access to the sea. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a rather difficult task. I must say that the Act by the Platform and the Modern One is opposed to the treatment of nature as a whole. The tree is not just a tree itself, it is also an environment, an ecosystem, it is the surroundings of a tree, a phenomenon called. biocenoses or symbiosis, e.g. The real ones grow under the oaks or under the larch, the kids grow under the birches, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's all working together. Therefore, with regard to this Tree Treatment Act, plus all these reservations about business legislation, very corrupt rules, I maintain it and therefore I must congratulate you. I'm sorry, this was about supposedly cutting out trees, you used that word at all, but after all, the PiS lady who spoke on behalf of the PiS, her M.A.S., was cutting out 2 million trees. Do you know how much oxygen this is, how much purified air this is... [[Did you count them? What do you say about air?]] ...by your coal policy, by your destruction and murdering people by poisoning the environment? Saying 2 million trees is supposed to be a piece of land, it's kind of like communists. They said... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u226	I'm in session.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u227	...that there are alleged opposition and alleged political prisoners. Your Marshal, on behalf of the European Union of Democrats, I ask you to reject the PiS idea, the project and to direct you to further work of the Civic and Modern Platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u228	Thank you very much, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm really asking you to calm down in the courtroom, because this kind of going into polemics makes it very nervous. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Please calm your colleagues.]] Mrs... Please, Mrs Małgorzata Janowska, Circle of the Posel Republicans.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Until recently, we were allowed to believe that Poland is becoming a country where citizens have the right opportunity to decide about their property, in this case real estate. Minister Jan Szyszko's Freedom Act on the revision of the law on tree and shrub cutting, abolishing unfair restrictions on ownership, was enthusiastically adopted by the majority of citizens and praised it also near the Republican. We expressed this when we spoke against the application for the cancellation of the Minister of the Environment. At the same time, we pointed out that not so much private owners are responsible for the unjustified cutting-out of the stand but, above all, for unreasonable local governments. In view of the next draft amendment to the legislation on this issue, we ask the Minister and the entire government majority not to be subjected to propaganda and pressure from the socialist opposition. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] These values constitute the right of every citizen. I call for this right to be respected. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! About the Republicans will vote against the proposed amendments to the Nature Conservation Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u230	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of questions you are asking? If so, do so. I'm closing the list. And you are the first question asked by Maciej Masłowski, the Kukiz club15. Question time - 1 minute. Are you an MP? [[I am, I am, your marshal. What's the time?]] One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u231	I'm gonna stretch it a little bit, but gently. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The following Article shall be inserted in this draft. 40a as follows: Individual trees and shrubs, their aggregates or pools of particular natural, scientific, cultural, historical or landscape value, deserving of protection due to their role in reducing pollution, entrusts noise or air temperature, aesthetic importance, importance for the preservation of biodiversity or recreational functions provided to the population. Such a definition allows for the recognition of any vegetation as a protected green. Aren't you afraid that this will cause an extremely corrupt situation? If the legislator establishes such a broad catalogue of protected greenery, the authority issuing decisions on this matter will be based solely on its own assessment and, consequently, this is not only an absurd situation but also a great temptation to corrupt. Second thing. The project also introduces a provision: Property on which the trees have been removed, etc. The applicant shall state in the explanatory memorandum that the project has beneficial socio-economic effects. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are the positive effects? Blocking people's ability to do business on their own? These are the consequences? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u232	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u233	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm directing the question to the minister's representative. Whether, in connection with the ill-considered Law on the Unloving Title of Szyszko, which allowed even wild logging of trees in Poland on a massive scale, the Ministry plans or has already taken legal steps towards owners of parcels, entities, companies which have cut out on the basis of the existing Law lex Szyszko, but clearly in contradiction with local land development plans, which did not allow, for example. multi-family buildings or any buildings in landscape protection lanes, e.g. show drastic examples from the Baltic Sea. On this occasion, the question is: Is it planned to tighten the penalties for people destroying trees and littering Polish forests, e.g. municipal waste, for people who export to forests e.g. Old furniture? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u234	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u235	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Following the Paris Climate Convention on 14 December 2015, the Prime Minister and Minister Szyszko announced a great success at the press conference. In fact, one of the demands of the Convention has been to include the use of forests and deforestation as one of the elements in the solution of carbon reduction. I wanted to ask you if this bill meets precisely this great success, which was agreed by Minister Szyszko at this convention. And the second question, Minister: Does the Ministry of Environmental Protection monitor the process of tree cutting, do you have any information on whether you are downloading information on how many trees have been cut... [[I thought you said $2 million. Where did you get this data?]] ...how much is cut out in a year - even information from self-government? And second question: How many trees have been cut out in the last three months since the law was in force? Do you have that information? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u236	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u237	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The explanatory memorandum to the draft of the Parliamentary Law and Justice states that the law does not have any financial implications for the budget of the local government unit, whereas the Polish County Union, which has negatively assessed this project, claims that you are missing the truth. The county association also claims that the main effect of this law will, unfortunately, be further felling of trees. Question: Please indicate the sources of coverage by the authority of local government units for administrative costs for handling receipt of notifications, keeping a register and carrying out checks. [[And what kind of money have they been doing this so far?]] And the question to the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment on the effects of the lex Szyszko Act: Does the Ministry have estimates of how many trees were cut out throughout the country during the period of this barbaric law, how many valuable specimens of trees were included, or did Minister Szyszko take advantage of the provisions of the current law and cut out trees on his property, the area of which according to the property declaration is almost 1.7 million ha, and is it true that the Ministry [[♪ The bell ♪]] The environment approved the granting of PLN 6 million to the portal about Białowieża Forest, and the expert of this project was the Minister's daughter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u238	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Using the fact that lex Szyszko also includes changes to the Forest Law, which suspends the bans resulting from the Habitats and Birds Directives, I wanted to ask what the closure of the Białowieża Forest is intended to do on 27 March, against which both NGOs and local residents protest. Security issues have been identified as a reason. Since it is difficult for local residents, too, to understand the reasons for this danger, it must be presumed that perhaps as part of Brexit's reproduction, this is about closing Robin Hood in front of some of our local activities, and we also have the traditions supported, perhaps that's what this is all about. Because in a strange correlation, the day before, the Deputy Minister announced a plan for the clipping. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in that Bialowieza Forest. Maybe it's just that we don't see what's going on out there. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u240	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Wojciech the King, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Question to you: Is the Ministry planning to take action to estimate the number of trees cut out from the entry into force of the December changes? I take it that since the drafts of subsequent amendments to the Act assume that a register of clippings should be kept, you see the need for such control. And the basic question is, do you want to estimate the damage done by this highly thoughtless and harmful act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u242	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The PiS Act has done Polish nature, environment, and thus Polish society with immense damage - irreparable damage, and today PiS is trying to powder the deep wounds that were created. You can't powder that. The result of this project, which - hopefully it does not enter into force - can only be an increase in bureaucracy and nothing more, because the bill or the project contains a lot of holes that will not prevent anything. Here is an example: the landlord cuts the trees and reports the fact to the office according to the law and then divides the land into construction parcels and sells before the expiry of 5 years. The construction permit does not apply and thus avoids any penalties or charges. I think that's the purpose of the bill - without consequences cutting further. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u244	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u245	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Law and Justice first allowed for a specific tree massacre, about 2 million trees were cut out, and we all see how the landscape has changed around us, but we also know that this is about the whole ecosystem. Your warden, your chief said that the case was rubbing off on corruption, but did he explain it? Mr. President, I demand an explanation of this matter. If you're not satisfied with all the organs of the prosecutor's office you need a committee of inquiry. I'm calling for it. Now you're changing the rules and again in a very, very imperfect and unacceptable way, because what is the term: part of the plot that will be calculated by a local government employee? Mr Gawłowski spoke about this. Question to the rapporteur: Will you not make the business of entrepreneurs who will be forced to clipping trees worse, and whether you will not make it worse already expensive? [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the complicated procedure that entrepreneurs must seek? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u246	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u247	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask Minister Szyszko why he destroys Polish nature in such a ruthless way. The saw and axe are symbols of the soullessness of the PiS - destruction in Łeba, in the Białowieża Forest. Many, many examples can be given. It is estimated that during the duration of this PiS law 1.5 million trees were cut out, which kept more than 80,000 trees. t dust. It will now go into the lungs of Poles. On this occasion the question arises: What if Mr Jarosław Kaczyński had ruled that lex Szyszko had no faults? Would we cut down the trees? This is only when a person realizes this, tragic and harmful to Poland. Reality hangs on the word of one man, because the state of PiS without thinking [[♪ The bell ♪]] You submit to every word he says. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u248	Thank you very much. Mrs Jolanta Hibner, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We replace one legal bubble with a legislative wick. I'll be honest with you... [[You were the one who praised it at the hearing.]] But please, nerbosol, since the morning of nerbosol, and then it's gonna be okay. 6 months for the Minister's decree. I understand we're introducing a law to clean, to be comfortable, to solve all cases. Six months for the Minister to be able to function. Congratulations. Next case for signing a notarial act. I wanted to ask myself: Do you foresee entering into any new regulations that every notary will check whether there is a protocol on the signing of the act? Ladies and gentlemen, this is nonsense. You're making more and more of this nonsense. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u250	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u251	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few questions. What was the order of magnitude that landlords had so much trouble cutting out trees on their property? Is there any knowledge, or is it just some kind of virtual thing? I'm sure there were cases, but what's the order of magnitude? The next question is: What will the new law be better than the previous one? After all, for a healthy sense of the burden here will be greater and there will be a bigger mess. First of all, you also have to make a report, you have to report it. Is there a duty? There it is. Does the viewing have to be? They have to be. In addition, you have to control yourself for 5 years, or I will do something that would be contrary to what we are introducing today. And another question: Why was Minister Szyszko deaf for so many months? He didn't hear, he didn't hear? I think his hearing is good, because he can listen to music. He invites his friends to music concerts for public money, I think his hearing is good. So that's what I'm wondering here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and wonder why in this case he had such poor hearing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Working on our proposal, our bill, we tried to find a compromise between ownership rights and the need to protect nature. Your solution is not such a compromise. According to the data of the state ecological institute, only during the first 2 months of the lex Szyszko law, about 1.5 million trees were cut out. You want this new regulation to enter into force only after six months. What is the real reason for waiting so long for implementing regulations to be issued? Do there have to be a few more or a dozen more million trees across the country? Thank you. [[That thing in your eyes replicates, two, three, multiplys.]] [[Voice from the hall: They didn't have time to cut everything out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u254	Thank you very much. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A wave of criticism about this law does not really leave a dry thread on it. That's where I'm gonna stop going into this debate and ask you a quick question. If the competent authority referred to in Article. Article 83a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (iii) (a) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) 1 shall object to the cut-off referred to in Article. Paragraph 83f. Eight, how long before the And I will ask once again whether Minister Szyszko was cutting trees in his vast villages from 1 January to today in accordance with the law in force. If he's such a great musician and has such sophisticated hearing, then I'm just gonna add, by the way, it's a shame that instead of walking... [[You repeat yourself.]] ...to the forest and listen to the noise of the trees [[♪ The bell ♪]] He listens to the noise of drinking. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Listening to the rapporteur of the committee, the question arises: If the law that was adopted on 16 December in the column room was so perfect, because, as the rapporteur said, freedom was restored and the applicant said that social injustice had been eliminated, why is the same majority now withdrawing from this cancer? This law, commonly called lex Szyszko, introduced a simple principle: you can cut out whatever you want, how you fly, everything that doesn't move on your parcels, without any control, without respect for natural precious trees. Through Poland, how long and wide is the voice of the saw. Today, the rebellion of public opinion forced you to restore, for example, minimal control of what was left of the greenery in private plots. With your teeth tightened, you're making new legislative amendments... [[Oh, you're overdoing it with your teeth, sir.]] ...that don't solve anything. Your Law Teaches Disregard [[♪ The bell ♪]] natural value, corrupts public opinion, strengthening the belief that environmental protection is an unnecessary and oppressive element of the law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u258	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What legal document defines a part of the property with a tree planted on it? I ask because the PiS project says that only at the site of the cut-off tree or shrub will it be impossible to do business. After all, this category of real estate is not in any legal document. What led the applicants to believe that such a legislative monster had been created? Do you realize that the legal status created on the basis of this definition will be easy to circumvent? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u260	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u261	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that during the committee meeting in December, Members of the Civic Platform in the debate on the proposal for a project that they are criticizing today said: This bill goes in the right direction, because at one time it was absurd that people couldn't have a garden in private areas, couldn't modernise it, because it turned out that the great grandfather planted a tree? And then it's supposed to be normal. [[Who said that, Member?]] ...all these situations when, for example, Someone on their property wants to build something, and they can't, because it turns out that let's give it a huge historic chestnut is an obstacle. And another quote: What has been so far was the lack of seriousness of the law. Today, you are accusing us of giving the Minister six months to prepare the regulation, and it is supposed to be so easy and easy. If it's that simple, then why was the ministry's Minister's amendment found not to implement 388 regulations? 388 Regulations which have not been drawn up, the outstanding regulations. And that's so easy. And one last question. Is it true that behind the previous government to protect the pearled gopher [[♪ The bell ♪]] caused a change in the location of the airport in Świdnik, cut out for this purpose a hundred and dozen hectares of mixed forests, and the goose died? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u263	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I wanted to ask the rapporteur a question: What were the absurd proposals of the Civic Platform and the Modern Party justified during the committee meeting? I would like to explain and explain simultaneously, and apologize to the public, that these two parties mislead society and threaten people, that their freedom and dignity on their land will be taken away, and that you wanted to scare them and force them to cut down trees. And they don't. Believe that the main principle, freedom and dignity, what we have restored to landowners, individuals, will remain. You won't have to get permission. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u264	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was one of the two members of the opposition, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, who took part in the debate when this unfortunate, terrible act for Polish environmental protection was being conducted. And then the rapporteur screamed at me incredibly, mocking me. And I had a simple question that I repeat today, as far as I know, for the sixth time. I asked that in the course of the debates, I asked him on 15 December in the courtroom, I asked him in the interpellations. There's no answer. Ladies and gentlemen, how badly have you destroyed the Polish tree stand? Are you even aware of that? Do you know that this pseudopathy of yours leads to Poles dying because of smog? And don't talk such nonsense, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or read to yourself, as some Members in the environmental committee, that trees have no influence on smog in Poland. Well, they do. In Poland 50,000 die. people per year due to smog. And thanks to you, she's gonna die twice as much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u266	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is sad that some Members do not distinguish graphics from the name of the party, but it must be so. On the other hand, with regard to the bill, ladies and gentlemen, the saddest thing about this whole case is that this previous project, which made such a slaughter in relation to trees all over Poland... [[What, what?]] ...went through the Senate basically without a word of objection, and even with the applause of everyone, almost all senators. This, of course, does not give the best testimony to this House, which is considered... whose reception is that this is an House of reflection and reflection, a profound reflection on the effects of the law. It's in this case that it didn't work out, and all the senators are to blame for not taking it properly, with due regard. And I wanted to ask you this. The owner of the property will be obliged to report the intention to remove [[♪ The bell ♪]] trees or shrubs by submitting drawings and maps. There's no specific information. [[Or maps, sir. Read it carefully.]] And I wanted to ask you how you feel about this. There will be different requirements for this obligation in each municipality. Each municipality may specify different requirements. Therefore, in some municipalities it will be more, in others it will be less bureaucratic. Isn't it worth a little more detail? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u268	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We understand that this is not a government project, but we invite the Minister closer because we don't need to be ashamed of this project, we think. My question may be easier for me to present, but I think the applicant will answer me. Well, it seems to me that I was considering it last night after I decided that there was some inaccuracies here, and to be exact, even the lawyers can't answer me, and they have a question for you, too. It is what the honourable Member has already said. So in point 8, if we apply for a cut-off, we report it to the local government. Self-government needs to take a look. After examining the authority we are talking about, the local authority may object within 14 days from the day of the inspection by administrative decision. The removal of a tree or shrub may take place if the authority has not raised objections. And to that point, point 8, we have an appeal in point 16, where we read: the final decision referred to in point 8. And here's the final edition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a decision. And in point 8, we have: maybe, he doesn't have to, make a decision. So what happens when he doesn't make that decision? Then we can apply for permission to cut it out. If he objects - he objects, I understand that you can apply for permission. And what's the purpose of the permit if it's not allowed in this tree if it's a 200-year-old oak tree? And the government has given its opinion that it is objecting. Well, then, what right will he be able to issue a permit to be cut down later?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u270	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u271	I would very much like to ask the applicant. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u272	Thank you very much. I'm closing this part of the discussion. And I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment - the main conservationist of nature of Mr Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, I would like to refer to the three projects that the Sejm has examined in the debate. With regard to the Modern Project, the Minister of the Environment negatively refers to the proposal to amend the Nature Conservation Act published in print No 1361, which provides for the introduction of a new form of nature conservation to be protected, the obligation to plant replacements in any situation and, above all, to restore to a large extent the obligation of natural persons to obtain permission to remove trees and shrubs. Regardless of the intentions of the authors of the project, it is difficult to positively assess the changes that hit the property of ordinary citizens, restoring permits for the removal of trees and shrubs. Mandatory replacement plantings in any case are unrealistic, as especially in large cities in the real estate in which investments are carried out, and nearby there may be no place to plant new trees and shrubs and their proper growth. The new form of nature protection proposed by the authors was, in turn, to be recognised against the will of the owner of the property, on which the green is located, which was to be covered by this form of protection, limiting the owner's right to own the land. Such a proposal cannot be accepted. This could also have financial consequences because, in accordance with Article. 129 Environmental law The owner of such a property could simply apply to the municipality for compensation. With regard to the Civic Platform project, it should be noted that the draft Law on the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act No 1317, drawn up by Members of the Civic Platform, is nothing more than an attempt to automatically restore the rules on the removal of trees or shrubs in force before 1 January, i.e. before the current rules enter into force. Such a proposal must at least surprise, given that it has already been mentioned here today, the position expressed during the work of the Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry by the authors of this project, according to which the regulations in force before 1 January had a number of disadvantages and needed to be amended. By the way, the failure of previous solutions has also been widely recognised. In my view and in my opinion of the Ministry, the adoption of the proposed solutions would be a return to the wrong system of restrictions on property rights, a system based on orders and penalties, reporting to neighbours, and would de facto carry the burden of taking care of greens important from the point of view of the local community from the shoulders of local self-government, of which it is a duty, on the shoulders of ordinary people. The Ministry of Environment cannot accept the proposal for this change. As regards the draft Law and Justice, the Ministry of the Environment took note of the solutions proposed in the Parliamentary draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act, which is included in print No 1334 and which provides for the obligation for individuals to notify their intention to remove a tree or shrub, to grant the possibility of objecting to such removal, to pay fees for the removal of a tree or shrub if an application for a construction permit is submitted within 5 years for carrying out a business activity, and to provide for penalties for infringement of these new provisions. With regard to the above-mentioned proposal, I would first of all like to point out that, in the light of the Act of 16 December 2016, the exemption of natural persons from the obligation to submit to administrative procedures for the removal of trees and shrubs, imposing new obligations on these persons and introducing the possibility of imposing severe penalties for infringements is a step backwards. The regulations resulting from the last year's amendment, according to the Ministry, have put in place the right solutions to restore the right for citizens to manage the greenery on their property, eliminating unnecessary, costly administrative procedures and the possibility of imposing high, ruining penalties for unlicensed cuts, often amounting to tens or even hundreds of thousands of zlotys. Therefore, the environmental department critically assesses the reference to the proposed return to the restriction system. Introduced on 1 January this year. In particular, the changes revealed the weakness of the spatial planning system, the lack of inventory of greenery at municipal level, the poor control of local authorities over compliance with the Nature Conservation Act and other long-term negligence of local authorities in this respect. It should be stressed that matters relating to green areas and trees under the Municipal Government Act are the tasks of the municipalities themselves. [[Exactly.]] In our view, the focus of local authorities on the strict regulation of property owners' activities, which are covered by greenery, observed by the end of last year, meant a genuine restoration of the obligation to maintain greenery, a shift of these obligations to ordinary citizens. Therefore, the environmental resort does not agree with the direction of the changes proposed in this draft amendment to the Nature Conservation Act. The proper state of the local green should, in our view, result not from new orders, restrictions and penalties, but from strict enforcement of local government obligations or the introduction of additional financial instruments to encourage ordinary citizens to maintain greenery on their sites. It would be worthwhile to give the local government the power to conclude agreements with the owners of valuable trees and shrubs, under which the local government will finance their maintenance. Municipalities could also have the power to introduce a real estate tax relief - the greater the more valuable greenery there is on the plot. According to the Ministry of Environment, further work on amending the Nature Conservation Act No 1334 should go in this direction. As for the questions that were addressed directly to me, some of the questions were repeated. The most frequently repeated question was the question about the effects of this law, whether as Ministry we have estimated the number of clippings since 1 January. Yesterday, on the environmental committee, I presented this report. I also explained why this report did not even contain an estimated number of trees removed without authorisation in accordance with applicable law from private areas, because the authorities of the municipality, and we came here to four cities, did not send us such information. Krakow only described this situation very clearly. This is the task of the municipality itself to observe what is happening in its territory and possibly respond to any violation of the law. With regard to this section in Łeba, which we talked about, there was clearly a violation of the law by the owner and, therefore, certain sanctions should apply to him. As far as these data are concerned, I will only say briefly about Warsaw: on the basis of decisions issued last year and in the first two months of this year in Warsaw 5 thousand were removed. trees. As regards Mrs Lenartowicz's question regarding the prohibition of entry into the Białowieża Forest. Madame, the situation is this way. This prohibition was introduced in accordance with the Law on Forests by the State Forests, by the Regional Director and foreman from this area. The ban applies to this part of the Białowieża Forest in which no work is carried out, no protective cuts. Nor is it removed from this area - that is about 17 thousand. ha - trees threatening. You just don't do anything there. Forests are responsible for security in their territory, and therefore there is a ban. [[But why?]] However, this prohibition does not apply to hiking trails and all places for recreation, because the stand along both hiking trails and recreation sites, for example the natural path of the bison is led to such a state that it does not endanger the safety of the tourists there. [[All of a sudden it's getting dangerous?]] This is precisely because in this part of the wilderness, Madame, there are no cuts, no words, no cuts... [[It's always been like this.]] ...even cuts due to safety. That's why the tables are set and there's a literal ban. I will remind you that in the Białowieża Forest at the beginning of this year just as a result of an uncontrolled excavation - the birch fell - a man died. [[And now what danger?]] In order to avoid such situations, this prohibition is introduced into that part of the forest, where even threatening trees are not removed, nothing is done. [[The people say otherwise, the experts say otherwise, for years, no one will tell us that black is black and white is white.]] Questions were also raised regarding the time needed for the regulation to be issued. I think six months is such a reasonable time to issue such an act of law. I would like to remind you that the previous Ministry authorities have examined for more than a year a regulation on the rates for the removal of trees with an appropriate breast. Over a year. Plus, she was hired for a lot of money with a powerful dendrological expertise. [[But how does that apply to a bill that comes in two weeks from now?]] As far as I know, in the parliamentary draft of this law on the amendment of the Act on Nature Conservation, there is a provision on the maximum rate. Until the regulation is issued, the maximum rate, which has not been found, Mrs... [[And the criteria for natural monuments?]] ...the security that the applicants put here did not appear in your draft amendment to the Nature Conservation Act, which assumed 100% The restoration of what was before January 1st. If your project were to enter into force, there would be no fee regulation, so it would not be possible to issue a decision that would charge a legal person, because there would be no fees. [[And what was it like so far?]] The regulation wouldn't apply, because it wouldn't be. That's not enough, you couldn't count the penalties. [[So far.]] And then everyone would cut down trees because they'd know he wasn't in danger of being punished. [[That's not true.]] Your proposal, Mrs Lewis, did not foresee a vacathio legis just for the regulation. There were no rules that would allow the issue of toll decisions and the imposition of penalties until the Regulation was adopted. [[The delegation from the previous wording of the bill remained.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u274	Thank you very much. Rapporteur Anna Paluch. But I understand that you are speaking as the rapporteur of the committee, not as a representative of your club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u275	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I'll try to answer my questions. The first issue that was in the speeches, the data about the cutouts. Some of you were talking about 1.5 million trees that were cut out, others were talking about 2 million trees that were cut out, so please give the source of this data... [[It wasn't for the rapporteur, it was for the minister.]] ...which you serve. Because... Your marshal, would you please calm your friends down?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u276	Madam, I would like you to answer as rapporteur for the committee. I'd really ask for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u277	So the simple conclusion is that these are the data collected using the ceiling times the air, because none of these data refer to the actual state. [[That doesn't apply to committee work.]] You are unable to provide either the source of this data or any other reliable reason, so it is simply difficult to accept it differently. The whole issue of public lying on topics that are the subject of our debate - this is not the right way. [[Get to the point.]] I'm sorry, but I didn't mercifully address those issues presented yesterday in the explanatory memorandum, but, ladies and gentlemen, with those oaks under the Łódź, which are not 200, only 10, it's just like the news of the Erevan radio. [[Mary.]] Radio Erevan served...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u278	Member, once again, please... You're the committee's rapporteur. Please refer to what was on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u279	That's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u280	Don't make a political statement to your club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u281	Your Marshal, would you please not interrupt my statement? [[That's why he's a marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u282	I'm just appealing and you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u283	I will refer to the questions that have been addressed to me. And instead of making your club girlfriends let me say these things, they were...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u284	Yes, but it is then that the Member says that the committee did not have precise data and does not deliver opinions. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u285	Mrs. Member! I'll answer again. The debate that was held yesterday at the committee meeting, and today during the discussion on these three seismic prints, the issue of the scale of the clipping was very acute. [[There was no discussion on three, first of all.]] And I say again with all responsibility that the data you are quoting here is exactly like the news of the Erevan radio. It's not 200 trees, it's 10. Just like Erevan radio: they weren't giving away cars in Moscow, they were stealing cars in Leningrad. So just see the right form of things. The second question concerns the doubts raised here by the Kukiz club15 regarding respect for private property and whether the owner has the right or not to own his property. It's clear. If you read quietly and understand those records that are in print 1334... [[The Member is not an applicant.]] ...and actually already in the committee's report in print no. 1337, it is clear that for the clippings for business purposes, fees are provided at a time when the owner declares the objective of not doing business, and then he does things differently than he declared, it simply results in the charge being charged. That's the pronunciation of those rules. That's another line. Once again, I must make one thing clear, and I must refer to some of the speeches that have been made both in the club speeches and in the questions from Members. You were talking here about a ban on doing business. Short and nodal: Where is the wording in print No 1337 about the prohibition of doing business? [[There's one in the print.]] There's no such prohibition. Madame, please read with understanding print No 1337... [[Read it to yourself.]] ...and show me the finger where that record is, because as a live one, it's not there. Here's another one. Working mode on the bill. On the one hand, there were voices that we were going too fast, on the other hand - that we were going too slow. Maybe it's time to decide whether it's too soon or too slow. Here's another one. The concern for the native nature that pierced from the statements of the representatives of the Civic Platform. The state in its previous term of office was responsible for the resolution of environmental matters and it was after you that 575 unreleased acts were passed, so really stand in the truth and do not make accusations taken from the ceiling. About Mr Masłowski's questions from Kukiz...15... He asked about the definition contained in the project of the Modern Club, i.e. in print No 1361. I would remind you that the committee voted to reject this bill. There's no record of that in the project that the committee recommended. Mrs Hibner - a question addressed to me, but I will answer with this question: Why was Mrs Hibner praising the bill adopted two days later, which you now call a bubble? When you were missing the truth: now or then? Mr Sonik addressed the question directly to me. Mr President, we are not withdrawing from cancer, but, just a moment ago, I was talking about these proposed provisions - the draft contained in the committee's report, print 1337, seals and eliminates the possibility of abuse of these provisions. Mr Suchoń asked about the records concerning the drawing and the map. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that there is either a manual drawing in the record, which the owner will refer to the office as an annex, or a map. Or - that is not a conjunction, but an alternative, so the pronunciation of this provision is obvious. High Izbo! Certain records, i.e. I have adopted some wording with sadness, because unfortunately, in this debate it has failed to preserve the atmosphere of factuality, concreteness, reference to specific rules. All the time, just as it has been for the past three months, it has been the embezzling of the public with things that are not based on facts, and in the parliamentary debate it should be completely different. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u286	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to correct and, above all, protest. You must not lie to the speaker without any embarrassment, and not on behalf of the committee, because you forget that you are here as rapporteur. We know your views, but they were not discussed at the committee meeting and are not related to the report. We refer to the bill submitted by the PiS. This one, of course, is subject to evolution, and the authors themselves have already lost themselves in this one. The original draft law referred to economic activity, prohibition of conduct and consequences. The fact that you Members... couldn't figure it out on your own like... [[But we are debating print 1337, Member.]] We are discussing the draft law, Madam, and not your report, which you have in mind, and which is completely detached from reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u288	Thank you. You're welcome, my fellow Member. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u289	Thank you very much. First of all, I wanted to say that I was not addressing the rapporteur, I was addressing the Minister. I meant whether there would be further acts that would make it possible to sign wise notarial acts for the disposal of real estate, because unfortunately there will be problems at those points that you are proposing. This is for the Minister; I do not suspect that the Member has the knowledge to act on behalf of the Minister. Second thing. I was never in favour of the Act of 16 December, which was adopted in such a way, but I thought that we should include in the acts the possibility that the owner would gain more decisions after the presentation. There is a difference, my fellow Member. I understand that there's no difference between a volunteer and an insane woman for you. It is to me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u290	Thank you very much. I'm closing... [[Applicant.]] Did the applicant wish to speak? You should have reported it, sir. You're welcome. [[It's been signaling from the beginning.]] But did I... Speak, please, but we must express... I can't see you behind that monitor, so the signal is that you want to speak... Besides, the Member here was actually speaking as an applicant, so I thought that was how you shared your roles. You're welcome. [[The Marshal goes beyond his mandate systematically.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u291	Thank you very much, Marshal. I think if the monitor were to be moved to the other side, it would be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u292	That'd be better.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u293	...better. Definitely.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u294	But I wouldn't have seen that page then.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u295	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few points to clarify to the ladies and gentlemen of the House, who have also just protested quite strongly. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that the document, the printing... that the proposal to amend the printing law 1334 was not perfect, so we started work in committee and worked very hard on the total criticism of the Platform and Modern Members. Therefore, they are held in the Parliament for further reading - the idea is that these documents, legal acts should be sanded and worked out in such a way as to create an ideal document. And once again, I would like to stress with full determination that in print document 1337 there is no mention of the fact that law, design, law and justice,. N or any other formation prohibits business activity. Absolutely not. As you know, we have worked together, these works have been long-lasting, we have met many times for a month, and I am glad that we have come to such a stage with the project that these provisions, which have aroused controversy and concern for some, including the various environments, probably and constitutionalists, have been emphasized, have been withdrawn, deleted, replaced by those which we believe are as appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! A few lines. Mrs Niedziela asked, she asked me what would happen if the office issued a negative decision. Of course, at this point, if this is an administrative decision, and this is an administrative decision, it is valid for k.p.a. Then the person concerned can claim his rights under the rules set out in the c.a. does not have the slightest problem. These are public regulations that are at the disposal of every citizen of our country. Another point - Mr Sonik said that they were cut out, that is the suspicion, the natural precious trees. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, but for 8 years, well, for more than 8 years, it has not been issued, although there was such a statutory order, a regulation of the Minister of the Environment which would define the criteria for the recognition of living and inanimate nature creations as natural monuments - the Minister would be guided by the need to protect trees and shrubs due to their age, size, cross-section and historical significance. You have not done this for 8 years, so you are accusing us of wanting to clarify and oblige the Ministry of the Environment to finally prepare this regulation, like many other regulations that you have not been able to prepare for eight years of your governments, for example in the environmental sector. And, ladies and gentlemen, one more thing. I think that, and I'm going to say this clearly, although you are talking about cutting down trees, what happened also caused a certain reflex of many people, including from among you - it turned out that many of you, and I encourage you to do this at any moment, start planting trees for the first time. [[We're doing it.]] Just do it every time, not when there's a political need. Do it at any time, on the occasion of the Feast of the Forest, on the occasion of the Feast of the Earth, and not only occasionally - so that you will leave, plant, and then you don't even know what's going on with this tree. Sit down, take care, cherish, and everything will be fine. Happy birthday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u296	Thank you, sir. But maybe it isn't you, but let's all plant trees and take care of them. That'll be the best solution. [[Voices from the hall: We plant.]] So do we, so together. [[Applause]] [[Your marshal, State Forests, half a billion a year.]] But also private trees must be planted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u297	High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my views on the draft laws amending the Nature Conservation Act and the reports on these projects submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, prints No 1334, 1337, 1317, 1335, 1361 and 1411. Let us recall that the parliamentary initiatives respond to the media criticism of the solutions introduced by the Law of 16 December 2016. Still, despite extensive discussion, it is difficult to determine the exact scale of the tree clipping phenomenon after the entry into force of these provisions. With regard to the anti-Citizen's initiative of PO Members, print No 1317, we share the view of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry to reject this project at first reading, print No 1335. It should be noted that the radical tightening of existing rules for cutting trees and shrubs is a fatal solution as it limits the freedom of citizens. We believe that individual tree clippings are the nature of local landscape changes and do not significantly affect the state of the environment. The Modern Members' Initiative, print No 1361, should be assessed as an attempt to balance the relationship between the applicable rules and the overly restrictive provisions in force before 1 January 2017. However, this initiative is very inconsistent and re-introduction of the authorisation institution, which limits the rights and freedoms of citizens in a fundamental way. The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle agrees with the recommendation of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry to reject this project at first reading, print No 1411. We maintain the view that green areas in urban areas play an important role, affect people's well-being and shape a harmonised urban space that positively influences creativity and increases people's motivation to act. The quality of life in the city should be shaped primarily by spatial planning, which is the responsibility of local self-government units. Strengthening this instrument should be an inspiration for future legislative work. The Congress of Urban Movements brought very valuable comments during the discussion on nature conservation. They should be taken into account in the monitoring phase of current solutions and work on future changes in nature protection law. However, we must strongly emphasise that we see the fundamental difference between the general ban system and the granting of administrative permits for tree cutting and the protection of natural and landscaped areas. We are in favour of this second solution. During the committee's work a number of interpretative doubts were raised concerning the provisions proposed in the third initiative, PiS Members, print No 1334. It provides that the property on which the trees or shrubs have been removed may not be used for business activities for a period of 5 years. This provision seems to have a negative impact on the economic development of the country. If, for example, the owner of the property, where the family house is located with a garden, removes the tree, and in 2 years' time he will want to open a one-man business activity of an office character, then by registering the activity at the address of the place of residence, he will commit a delict as defined in the Nature Conservation Act or be forced to rent an office at the start to raise the costs of his business. This provision of the draft law from print No 1334 is completely irrational, in advance limiting the freedom to conduct business. Perhaps the applicants were more concerned with banning the development activity on the site where the logging was carried out, rather than the economic activity as such at all, but such a provision was not included in the draft law. Regardless of the type of activity carried out, the proposed solution raises considerable doubts as to its compatibility with the Constitution. There is also a high likelihood that there will be legitimate ways of avoiding the proposed ban, which could undermine the sense and practice of lawmaking. In addition, administrative fines for failure to notify the authority of the removal of the tree or shrub seem too severe. The socio-economic impact of the project is of fundamental doubt. It is also impossible to ignore the negative opinion of the Polish County Association, which has highlighted the numerous shortcomings of the proposed legislative solutions. This should lead, above all, to reflection on the mode of legislative work that is too chaotic in our opinion. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will abstain from voting on the draft Act amending the Nature Conservation Act 1334 and vote against the draft laws contained in the prints 1317 and 1361.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u298	We will proceed to the vote on the committee's proposals to reject the draft laws in print 1317 and 1361 in the voting block. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading of the draft Print Act No 1337 had been notified to the proposed amendment act, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Commission on Communication with Poles abroad on the governmental bill amending the Law on repatriation and some other laws (prints No. 1378 and 1446). I ask Mrs Małgorzata Wypych to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report from the Communication Commission with Poles abroad and the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government bill amending the Repatriation Act and some other laws, print No 1378. High Izbo! I inform you that the Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 23 March 2017 the above draft law to the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad and the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Commission, after considering this draft law at its meetings on 23 March and 4 April, invites the High Sejm to approve the attached draft. Commissions, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicants, submit the following minority requests. These are three minority proposals. At the same time, the Commission introduced substantive amendments and editorial and legislative amendments, and clarification. In total, 31 amendments of substance and 17 amendments of a more precise nature were adopted during the subcommittee and committee meeting. In addition, several legislative comments have also been accepted in the legislative work so far. I'll move on to the most important amendments. It should be pointed out here that a maximum limit has been introduced for the remuneration of the members of the Council. Repatriation up to the height not higher than one-off average monthly salary in the enterprise sector, without any profit payments in the fourth quarter of the previous year, announced by the President of the Central Statistical Office. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2 was given up on the need to carry out a often cumbersome exam for repatriates showing their knowledge of Polish language and Polish customs and culture. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 17b was given the possibility that the plenipotentiary should provide the repatriate who came to the Republic of Poland on the basis of a national visa issued for the purpose of repatriation, with proof that the conditions for settling in the form of a statement by a Polish citizen were met by financial assistance to meet housing needs. In addition, a new title was added to provide financial assistance to repatriates for accommodation in a student home. It was decided that financial assistance measures should be transferred to the bank account and that the adaptation centres for repatriates were provided with free broadband access to the repatriates. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Both these amendments and the work of the subcommittees and committees have been the result of a consensus that we have achieved on such an important issue as the repatriation of our fellow countrymen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u300	Thank you very much, Member. Before we proceed, I would like to say that you are listening to Professor Manar Kalybekova, professor of the University of Alma-Ata in Kazakhstan at the gallery. Welcome, Professor. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Małgorzata Wypych, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the subject of a very important law, which actually connects in some way with the Polish Charter Act, as well as a philosophy about which Law and Justice spoke in their campaign and is currently implementing it. At the outset, I wanted to quote the preamble to the High House, which had changed the Act of 9 November 2000 on repatriation: "In a sense of deep ties with Poles - descendants of the former Republic of Poland, victims of communist terror, violence forced to leave the land of ancestors, settled against their own will on the most difficult to live areas of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; deprived of the possibility of returning to Poland, persecuted by reason of their origin and attachment to faith, tradition and love of freedom, condemned to work in inhuman conditions, hunger, sickness and often physical destruction; who, despite all adversity, have never renounced Poland, its traditions and culture, and their love and attachment to the Homeland have passed on to their descendants - wishing to compensate for the harm suffered by the exiles, recognising that it is the duty of the Polish State to allow the repatriation of its compatriots who remained in the East to decide what is to bedone. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is being completely amended. This is the result of a series of consultations, which were carried out both by government representatives and within the Committee on Communication with Poles abroad, as well as contacts between Members and our countrymen living both in the East and in the West. During the meeting with the repatriates on the 80th anniversary of the first mass deportation of Poles to Kazakhstan by the Soviet authorities, the president assured that the government would not rest until every Pole and every Polish who are abroad will return to Poland. The process of speeding up the return of the repatriates to the country and introducing new forms of assistance, which are currently provided for in the Act, will make very often the last will, as well as the desire to continue serving Poland a reality. The problems identified by the repatriates concerned cumbersome, unclear procedures related to the return, concerns about the future destination, concerns about the workplace, as well as concerns about poor knowledge of the Polish language. It is necessary to emphasize the fact that in this law we are resigning from the very often used, derogatory examination of Polish language. The new forms, the institutions that we are introducing, which will be introduced by this law, are government repatriating agents and adaptation centres for repatriates. An important issue, which was highly appreciated by both the repatriates and the repatriates themselves, was among others. the issue of financial assistance and the precise definition of conditions for settling. We hope that the newly introduced regulations will change the state, which has been since 2007, which in fact reduces the number of people who want to repatriate to our country, because the problem of repatriates is a problem that connects us all, all Poles in fact all over the world: both in the United States and in Kazakhstan. The Law and Justice Club will opt for this bill. At the same time, we are making amendments of a clear and legislative nature and one substantive nature. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u302	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I will refer to these words, because it is indeed the preamble and essence of the law: wanting to make amends for the harm suffered by Poles, from whom the border has emigrated. Now the way it's done. I will only refer to three points for a short time. Print No. 1378 - some of the most important problems. The ones that raise the biggest doubts, I'd like to introduce. The first is the proxy, the appointment of a proxy, and the decisions he makes are very important, because the decision to award the premises and the financial decisions. At the same time, the provision of the Act states that a proxy is entitled to appeal to him against a decision - from such an important decision. So this is an extremely undemocratic mode and, I think, very hurtful for those who will - and certainly will - appeal. Why? Well, in the government's report, there's a public consultation, and I'm going to quote, "What are the most important problems that a repatriate faces?" He defines it himself and says that it is primarily social adaptation - 14,8% The repatriates replied that this is the biggest problem for them - finally the language barrier, 16%. Thus, a large percentage of these people coming to Poland are aware of the problems they will encounter. But how will he meet? Where will he meet? We have just heard - this is mentioned in the Act - that they will be adaptation centers. The repatriant can stay in the adaptive facility for 3 months, exactly 3 months, after the relevant additional decision of the attorney - another 3 months, i.e. six months. Can such problems be solved for six months? Is such an adaptation, I would say, civilization possible? The answer is no. Is it possible that a man, a retired person - 30% of the repatriates we're supposed to make amends for the harm we've suffered - learn the language? As the Member has just said, they do not know the language. For three months, an adult will not learn the language. I'm saying this as a methodology for teaching foreign languages. But that wouldn't be... It would be sad, but it is much more sad that in the subcommittee and in the committee, what will happen after six months, where we put this repatriate, the answer was: in the senior's house or in the social services centre. Ladies and gentlemen, is this compensation for the harm you've suffered? Social Services? This problem could be solved differently. Let's take a look at the bill's records of the amounts allocated to the purchase at the sublet of the apartment. That's $25,000. for a repatriate. So with two older people, pensioners, that's 50,000. Or $50,000. Can you buy an apartment? No. What's the surcharge on the possible loan these people took? It's miserable. The answer was, maybe they'd come with families and these families would hold them and maybe they'd have a pension. Dear country, in my opinion, this law does not guarantee compensation for the damage and does not give guarantees, especially to the oldest people, when it comes to coming to Poland. So the Prime Minister's words that every Polish woman and every Pole will be able to return to their homeland are illusory. This will prove very, very ineffective. But we're gonna find that out soon, because next year, we're gonna be summing up the bill. I just want to say that the bill, which was politically very held back by the PiS, prepared by the Civic Platform, proposed excellently better conditions, because it was an adaptation process for the repatriate paid for two years and then to provide an apartment. It was actually an attempt to make amends. Unfortunately, since May 2015, the project has been on the committee and has not been able to see its entry into session despite the reminders. [[What are you saying?]] And it's a pity, because it was certainly a project that guaranteed much better conditions for the repatriates, especially for the elderly who went through the whole nightmare of Stalinism and who really should be rewarded for the harm. Thank you very much. [[You can't say that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u304	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the pleasure of presenting the position of the Modern Club regarding the Repetition Act. Ladies and gentlemen, it is sad that we had to wait 26 years of Polish freedom to solve this problem. I hope that this bill brings us closer to the issue of repatriation to a happy end. I will remind you that so far we are about halfway through this process, we managed to bring to Poland less than 5 thousand. The repatriates, and at least the second is waiting, perhaps even more. This law may not be an excellent law - in my opinion there are some active elements missing in terms of activation on the labour market - but it contains the mechanisms that the Polish state can afford today. That's how I take these proposals that have been made. I'm thinking about the housing amount of $25,000. It's a lot, and it's not much. Of course, it's not enough to buy an apartment, but it can form the basis, own contribution, so that the repatriates can think about their own apartment. The development aid is not very big either, but you can already do something about it, you can already make some purchases important for the functioning of our country. I see a few important elements, the drawbacks of this solution. I have tabled two amendments in particular. One concerns the Repatial Council. It's an organ without any powers. In my deep conviction, it's a waste of money to set up additional organs. Each zloty is better spent on helping the repatriates themselves, so I call for this to be taken into account. The Council as a body of opinion is not enough to justify its existence. Finally, the second amendment, quite important, is to seal the law, to prevent, in particular, fraud or abuse which could be linked to the granting of the status of a person who can apply for assistance, including spouses of persons who are repatriates. Despite these shortcomings - I hope that they can be removed in the course of further work, there is a good chance for this, and I want to thank all the clubs for the good atmosphere during the work on this law - we will support this solution, because the process of repatriation needs to be completed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u306	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u307	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! Today, we are leaning on the amendment of the Law of 9 November 2000 on repatriation, the content of which is so close - and probably expected - to our fellow countrymen scattered in the East as a result of the war and its consequences. The very wording of the preamble to the amended law treats about a deep relationship with Poles, descendants of the former pre-war Republic of Poland, for which the present free Poland can be a real Polish house. The successions of World War II caused that many of our compatriots were not voluntarily exported and settled in a country where, far from their own country, they suffered longing, hunger, sickness, physical and mental destruction, but neither martyrdom nor isolation broke their faith and hope that after decades of exile they would have a ray of hope to return to their beloved homeland, and for many of the old age - to lay their bones on Polish soil. That time has just come. In order to implement this process, as well as to accelerate it to the fullest extent, it was necessary to amend the provisions of the Act on repatriation already in force and certain other laws. The report of the Joint Commission: Administration and Home Affairs and Communications with Poles abroad sets out the principles of acquiring Polish citizenship by means of repatriation and repatriating rights, as well as the modalities and rules for assisting repatriates. The status of the repatriate has also been determined. The government's repatriate attorney has been appointed. It was also decided to set up a Council for Repatial Affairs, but it is only a pity that with so little competence. The task of the government's representative himself is quite broad and it must be assumed that he will fulfil the task of accepting our fellow countrymen well entrusted to him by law. An important and even crucial role will be played, especially in the first period following arrival in Poland, adaptation centres for repatriates. It is worth noting that coming to Poland is not only a spring, but also a duty for people for whom free Poland opens wide doors. The coordinating body of the repatriation process in the voivodship area will be voivodship. The Act provides for protection against unwanted visitors and appropriate treatment in such cases, which seems understandable and obvious. An important role to play, but also responsibility will be taken on by people supporting the repatriate, whose bill devotes a separate chapter. In order to ensure a decent stay for the repatriates who arrived in the country, the legislator could not forget to amend many laws, not only about, in general, the social and ethnic nature, but also protecting the interests of the Republic of Poland. High Seym! It did not take much time, thought or thought for the Polish People's Party to develop a view of the procedated matter. In line with our tradition and commitment to freedom and independence, thinking that we owe our fellow countrymen worthy of their acceptance in their homeland, Members of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the report of the joint committees from print No 1446. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u308	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Circle of the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u309	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am present here in this debate not only as the chairman of the circle of the European Union of Democrats, but also as part of, and precisely half, the descendant of Kresowians, although those early, not late, those who decided to come to Poland immediately after the war in the framework of this first wave of repatriation, but also which part of the family still remained on the Kresa of the former Republic of Poland. Individual stories are known, they are often in our region, in Lower Silesia, are described in detail today. And this is a good tendency to publish memories of the heroes of the historical events of that time, including repatriation. Family decisions were made: some go to the so-called. Lands Recovered, but without the belief that they would become a part of Poland - most often they were those who had children - and part of it is guarded by family possessions, because this state, so believed then, this state of shifting borders as a result of the post-Czdam conference must be reversed one day, and it will be necessary to return from these German lands to our native, native ones. History has changed, and many remain. Many had the chance to return, returned, but many still remained there. That is why the changes proposed by the Government of Law and Justice at first reading, in our opinion, deserved support. Once again, I want to emphasize what deserves support - first of all, to facilitate administrative procedure, first of all to enable spouses, even if they are not ethnic Poles, but they feel part of the Polish community through the fact that they are married to a border Pole, to make it easier for them to come to Poland and if there is such a will and love for this new homeland authentic, to help them adapt and live their lives here, in the country on the Vistula River and on the Oder River. We are not afraid that this procedure would be abused. But if the committee and the subcommittee have proposed solutions that are kind of tightening these criteria, there you go, we also accept them. From the very beginning, however, we have said that in the financial sense this law is indeed unambitious. Mr Gryglas said that this is probably what our country can do today. However, the 25 million annual budget for this purpose, up to 45 million in a 10-year perspective, seems too unambitious. Especially when you look at various other expenses planned or announced by this government, like a questionable project to build a central airport for large billions of zlotys. In view of the above, as Mrs Fabisiak has said, there was a solution prepared in the Committee on the Environment. communication with Poles, much more ambitious financially... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: 8 years old.]] ...but it was actually blocked by the leadership of this committee, which was in the hands of... [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Płażyński of the Holy Memory.]] ... Rights and Justice, my dear Member. The fact is that the amount of $50,000 for two, especially for the elderly, for the people who come here, getting rid of some small assets on the spot, is not enough to ensure a decent life in the fall of life. And not everyone will come with large families surrounded by young children who can support them, as they do today in many Polish families, sons, daughters and grandchildren, helping older parents and grandparents retirees. However, we believe that the law deserves support, that it is a step, even if only step in the right direction, and that is why it will vote in favour of the European Union of Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u310	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish state, which was reborn after 1989, failed to fulfil its moral obligation to assist Poles in mass deportation by the Soviet authorities and to provide them with a real opportunity to return to their homeland. It was a national disgrace that nothing has been done in this case for so many years. This was mentioned by the President of the Association of Repatriates of the Republic of Poland. For many years the Polish government has done nothing for those who lived by hope that, if they did not, at least their children will see their homeland. The law introduced in 2000 proved insufficient. Rather, its limitations discouraged our compatriots from returning, and the power was at hand because they did not have to bear the cost. As a result, for almost 27 years only about 6 thousand reached Poland. compatriots of our forgotten endless steppes, but now the Polish government has decided to take the appropriate steps to meet my country's obligation to our country's compatriots living in the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, in particular in its Asian part, among others. in Kazakhstan, where more than 900,000 live. persons of Polish nationality. The draft repatriation bill we are discussing brings solutions that will make it easier for our compatriots to return to the country. In the next nine years, more than 10,000 will arrive in the country. Poles, and the costs of this operation are to be fully borne by the Polish state. All descendants of the oppressed will be able to return to Poland. Those words were spoken by Senator Anna Maria Anders, representative of the government for International dialogue is good for the repatriation project. The father of Senator General Władysław Anders led about 120,000 people out of the land. Poles, and now his daughter has a chance to continue this noble mission. Although this applies today to the descendants of Poles forced to settle in the East, for them it is a return home, so let us do everything to make Poland a real, dreamy and dreamy home for them. I hope that the government's actions today are only the beginning of the efforts of the current authority in this area, because everyone will agree that there is still much to be done here. In my opinion, the solution worth considering is e.g. giving them Polish citizenship, so that even living abroad, they will be sure that they can rely at least on the legal protection that the state can provide. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the government's draft repatriation bill, hoping for further action. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u312	Please - Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With a trembling voice I stand here, knowing the great burden on us Poles for years, for hundreds of years - it is about forgotten, kidnapped, forced people, Poles from 1863, from 1920 or 1944 and 1945. Ladies and gentlemen, so far more governments have been unable to deal with this problem since World War II. With great acceptance from Kukiz, 15 will meet all actions aimed at repairing the damage to people who are Poles, were Poles and want to continue to be Poles. If this does not reach them directly today, it is also a sacred duty to encourage them through us. That is why Kukiz15 is wholeheartedly behind our compatriots so badly affected by fate and will vote in favour. But we must also speak at this point about the threat that can be exploited by all kinds of European smartness. We are people who use emotions every day, emotions rule our history. I would not want us to remain convinced that the Polish Charter can be used and costs 500 euros in Kiev. I would like the authors of this law and the rulers to know that the Polish Charter is abused. This is not an impossible time, these are facts, so I try very hard to convince you and Kukiz15 to be careful, generous, and to remember our fellow countrymen, but also to have a system of sowing what is called the use of our heart, from what is a fact. Thank you very much for this bill also on behalf of our fellow countrymen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u314	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the questions? You're welcome. If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. First, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. There isn't. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is. He's coming.]] You're an MP. It's one minute, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law provides for a cash benefit of PLN 200 per month for the repatriates during their stay in the centre, unless they undertake paid employment. Please explain the calculation of this amount. I would also like to ask you to know how this amount is intended to help Polish refugees who are staying in the centre and who are not working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u316	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Lech Kołakowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to thank Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Henryk Kowalczyk for preparing this very much awaited bill by Poles. Let history's justice take place, let the descendants of those who have been deported return to our homeland as soon as possible. Minister, I actually have two questions. One question: When will the Polish government, when will Poland be able to welcome bread and salt to the first group of repatriates? The second question relates to the number of people who would like to return to their homeland. Whether it's 10,000 or 20,000, or it could be about 100,000.? Because we may differ in the assessment of the number of people who want to return to the country, but I would suggest that we accept more citizens who will come to the mother country, to the dream country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by their grandparents, their parents, so that the Republic can receive them with dignity. Once again, thank you very much to the Government of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u318	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are finishing today by introducing a law introducing changes that we have waited too long for, or actually waiting for our fellow countrymen, who do not voluntarily live outside the country. Anyone who has had any contact with Poles living in the East knows what it means for them to be able to return to their homeland. It is therefore important to thank the government of Beata Szydło that this problem is finally being resolved. The proposed amendments to the Repetition Act, the appointment of a government spokesperson with advice, the establishment of adaptation centres and financial support will certainly make it easier for our compatriots to achieve their dream goal of returning to their homeland, most often to the homeland of fathers and grandparents. It should be hoped that there will be no shortage of funding for this aid in the budget, and even that an increase in the amount of aid should be considered, as the people to whom it is directed are most often poor people who cannot afford to invest more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u320	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Enabling our compatriots to return to Poland, who were not by choice in Kazakhstan and many other countries of the former Soviet Union, is our obvious moral duty. The fact that in the last dozen years the number of Poles who could return to their homeland or, most often already at this moment, to the country of their ancestors has been reduced is a reason for those who have led to this situation to be very ashamed. This bill is needed, this bill is expected, this law certainly needs to be passed as soon as possible. However, I would like to ask you how these changes that are being made will effectively contribute to the success of this number of our compatriots. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u322	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bogdan Rzoniec, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, we are doing a great thing today through this bill, repairing the kind of harm that has happened to our fellow countrymen. I thank all those who contributed to the implementation of this law today very beautifully: and the Members of the committee and the Polish Government. It's a really big deal. This is something that should be very much, clearly noted in the history of Polish parliamentarianism, that we are fixing a big mistake. I'd like to ask you how in detail these funding mechanisms are, because so far, the repatriator has received... Is it that the repatriate will receive the money in hand, or will the money go into the municipality's account? I mean the mechanism for financing his stay, when this repatriate in a given municipality appears, because they may also be unfavorable attitudes in the municipality towards the repatriates, so I would like to know if there will be any financial lies here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u324	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank you very much for the initiative you have taken and implemented. You are one of the few people not to say: the only minister who at every stage of this project was and was not behind the directors, but personally considered every point, every article. Thank you very much for that. As for the question, my question is simple. Would you like to send the product of their work in the previous term, i.e. in the sub-committee on opposition clubs? repatriating your previous term of office? I don't think that's gonna be a problem, because that's 0.0. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u326	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! Minister or Minister! High Izbo! First in corrigendum mode. Well, I would also like to send you back to the Civic Platform project, print number 3774. He was held back in the Communication Commission with Poles abroad first by requiring materials. Like what? Well, almost a year... There was a request to make the materials available from the database of the native. These materials could only be available as secret materials at the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Two Members have been familiar with them for a very long time. The second reason for such a long detention was the matter of the calculations of the civil project. There were constant changes. It's in explanation mode. Now, Minister, a question. This bill is very good for young people. The Civic Platform will support this bill, but will the dream home of these old people from Kazakhstan, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's an apartment in an adaptive facility from Siberia and then a social worker's home? And the question is: What instruments, because I did not find them, what effective instruments should be for the local government to grant housing? What you are proposing is at a lower level than the previous law, so it is difficult to encourage local governments to grant housing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Dziedziczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that I am acting as a parliamentarian, not as a minister, also as a parliamentarian of the previous term, who dealt with matters of repatriation. I was even the vice-president of the sub-committee for repatriation. And I can only say one thing: finally. Finally, after 27 years, the so-called. free Poland managed to carry out this important bill, which our fellow countrymen were waiting for. It was not carried out during the reign of the previous crew. Eight years of power in parliament and a favorable president, but unfortunately it has not been entirely carried out. You made dozens, hundreds of bills at the time, but somehow you couldn't make this one. Right before the election, you passed a bill that was already out of date. After all, the repatriation environments expected nothing of this to happen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only our power of this resolution, the bill that everyone was waiting for, will finally carry out. This also shows what the government of law and justice is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After a few years, after the last two parliamentary terms, it was possible to carry out effectively and well in the work of the subcommittee, and later the committee draft legislation on repatriation. I was active in this work, too. Although the discussion was sometimes turbulent, there were various proposals, there was a consensus at the end, all supported this bill. I hope that on tomorrow's day all Poles who do not live far in the Eastern Kres will hear good news that the Polish Parliament unanimously voted a good bill on repatriation. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Will the first group of Poles return to the country soon after the entry into force, I hope, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So she can enjoy her presence in her homeland during Christmas? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u332	Thank you very much, sir. I invite the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers of Mr Henryk Kowalczyk and ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the positive recommendations of all clubs regarding this bill. In fact, we are doing this duty by twenty years too late, that is because at this moment we are really giving the opportunity to return to our homeland to those Poles who are descendants of people sent away, deported. Even 20 or 10 years ago, she probably would have had the opportunity to return a much larger number of deportees, those who remember deportation. Now, unfortunately, they're just individuals, and I'm afraid even those individuals can't wait to come back, because they won't make it. Well, we're doing it now. There hasn't been that kind of will up until now. On the other hand, I am very surprised by Mrs Fabisiak. It's about questions, allegations that Law and Justice are blocking the entry into force of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, you had an absolute majority, so how could Law and Justice, if it wanted to, block this bill? Anyway, that's never been an idea. This is a law that was tabled in 2015, but more resentment, and I have much more resentment about the law, a civil project that has been frozen for several years in the subcommittee of which you were president. So saying at this point that anyone was blocking is at least inappropriate. I'm glad we're realizing this now that all clubs are involved, but if we're referring to the past, we really need to say that we could have done this a lot, a lot earlier. The civic project, which was originally prepared by Marshal Płażyński, and after the death of Marshal Płażyński was taken over by his son, was actually effectively blocked by you for many, many years. Perhaps many of those who would like to return did not live to see this moment. This is the remorse that rests on all of us, and especially on those who decided then. And now I am going back to the concrete comments, to the concrete proposals that were made during the discussions, club positions and questions. As regards the argument concerning the appeal against the decision of the representative which serves him, I refer to Mrs Fabisiak, Polish law provides in many cases for a review of the case. This is precisely the re-examination of the case, whereas the proxy itself does not really have the power to make discretionary decisions. He's just gonna check the legal terms. There is no discretion in this regard. If it doesn't work out, if it doesn't do it right, it does. That's what the Repetition Council is for. If he evaluates him negatively, I am convinced that the Prime Minister will have the right consequences for such a proxy. The Council for Repetition Affairs is among others. so as to control the proxy on the one hand, control the implementation of this law by public administrations, but also to engage actively in the search for housing, jobs and assess the housing conditions that will be proposed, including the conditions that will be in adaptation centres. Amount of aid for apartments of 25 000 They're too small for one repatriate. Of course, you can imagine 50,000, 100,000. You were eight years old, you could give and you could give $100,000. But where does this amount come from 25,000?? It is an amount that has actually been calculated so that it is an effective aid in obtaining an apartment, but also not absolutely fulfilling in all efforts. We want repatriates as Polish citizens after crossing the border to receive real financial aid, but also not in a situation where everything will be settled, because it will not be a good way of assimilation or adaptation. We have a declaration, among others. PKO BP bank about whether to start a credit line, if the money that is, is not enough to buy an apartment in an attractive place or elsewhere. We must also pay attention to the help we apply to our citizens living in Poland. So help, let's say, for a four-person family, it's going to be 100,000. for housing purposes plus 6,000. times four, i.e. 24,000, to equip this apartment, namely furniture, washing machine, fridge, etc. We consider this aid to be quite important. If we take this into account - here will be the answer to any question - the possibility of helping to get a job... It works in this law, therefore there is no change in the amendment. This is aid from the Labour Fund for the employment of repatriates, aid addressed to employers. So at this point, if that's the case, I'm sure it'll be a very strong inclusion. Many Polish families would like to have such conditions at the start. These are, of course, not fully satisfactory conditions, but that is not the point. However, this is very important aid. About this aid and the amount of 25,000. e.g. For groups of pensioners, of course this assistance is addressed in different forms. It can be directed as a one-time payment to the apartment, but can also be directed as a payment to the rent. Retired people can rent an apartment with a rent charge. 25,000. for 10 years times e.g. two persons, i.e. 50,000, which practically gives you a free apartment for 10 years. And, of course, these are our Polish citizens when they cross the border, so let us remember that they will receive retirement. If there are certain conditions for receiving a combatant allowance, this is also the case, or a caring allowance, as with all our pensioners, this allowance will also be. Just as our retired families will have a living environment no worse than others, and at the beginning 50,000. For the first 10 years of rent. If they don't want to, they don't have to buy this apartment. I'm sure this amount right here is calculated well enough to make it work. This differs significantly from the previous solution, which only provided for a grant for the municipality to adapt the apartments, to renovate or grant the apartment, but the money was taken by the municipality, not by the repatriates, so even though the municipality took the money and allocated the apartment, the repatriates were forced to pay the rent. Hence, among others. the flaws of this solution. In addition, only municipalities had the opportunity to collect these funds if they invited repatriates without names, i.e. in a way that did not direct to a particular family. On the other hand, if someone wanted to bring his family back, or there was a registered invitation, then the commune received nothing, no one received anything. Here we harmonise this solution, whether it's a nameless invitation, nameless invitation or a family path or an adaptation measure, this housing aid amounts to 25,000. and she is up to all elements, both for rent or in the form of a subsidy to purchase. In the work of the subcommittee, even the problem of paying to the student home came out, so this was also introduced. These amounts - here the answer to one question - receive the repatriates directly. Very well, if the municipality wants to cooperate, of course it can support it here, but this is the amount at the disposal of the repatriate, not the municipality - I stress once again - the repatriant, affects his account when buying an apartment, transferring a notarial act or paying rent if there is a lease agreement. So this is the amount for repatriates, not for municipalities. This is the whole change, a very important change in the philosophy of the approach to repatriation. The second change, which also involved many questions, is the change in which we include spouses in the definition of repatriate. So far one of the very important barriers was that even if the person was Polish and showed it, and the spouse was not Polish, he was not eligible for any help, so he was treated in Poland as a foreigner. Thus, he did not have automatically granted Polish citizenship, no aid was granted to him, even if he was retired. So far it worked so that even if there were two pensioners, but one of them was Polish and the other was not, then two pensioners came and the person of Polish origin received a pension, and the person of another nationality did not receive this pension, and of course with most countries, among others. with Kazakhstan, where there are the largest number of repatriates, we do not have agreements on the transfer of pension benefits, so in fact the spouse was deprived of the means of life. We are solving this problem, and I think it will also have a very strong impact on speeding up the process of repatriation. Of course, there were still voices here about the security problem. This occurred, for example. in Mr Gryglas' statement on the caution against fictitious marriages in order to obtain Polish citizenship. Indeed, this matter is being considered, and from what I have seen, there is an amendment to the Law and Justice Club that could possibly meet this request by the Member. On the other hand, we cannot lose those who are waiting to be repatriated. So there was a modification, so that it was not so that people who applied for a repatriation visa several years ago, and it is not very small, in good faith, but unfortunately by previous governments it was not noticed, waiting for several years now... it would be difficult for people to start families, start marriages, throw out the people who made these marriages, so the proposal is that they should apply, but forwards rather than backwards. Another issue - this is the question of Małgorzata Zwierzan - about giving Polish citizenship already abroad. Unfortunately, this is practically impossible because most countries, Kazakhstan in particular, do not recognise dual citizenship, so there is no real possibility that Polish citizenship could be given abroad, because it would automatically lose Kazakh citizenship. So it's physically impossible, although, of course, if it were possible, it would be worth considering, but we're not considering it because it's unrealistic. Marek Jakubiak also spoke of caution in granting a return visa, etc. Yes, the bill provides for such caution, and so far it has been. The application for a repatriation visa is not dealt with automatically, it is dealt with by a consul who checks the Polish origin or recognition as a repatriate, but also the person is checked by our services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to see if there is really no danger in this regard. And that's the security that works right now. The question concerned 200 zł allowance in adaptation centers, how this applies to other benefits. So in asylum centers - let's call it - whether refugees are 70 zł, here is 200 zł, but this is related to a slightly different function. Because these centres are generally closed centers, while this adaptation centre for repatriates is a completely open centre. It is a centre that helps mainly in learning Polish language, it is as if the most important goal, in adapting to conditions, i.e. in the preparation of documentation, among others. a statement of nationality, the creation of an identity card, the granting of a PESEL, etc. It's that kind of thing. And people of course participate in social life, children go to school, can take up work, etc., so this adaptation is done in such an automatic and fluid way, hence the help of 200 zlotys is slightly greater than for others due to this openness, shopping or other matters. The question is, when is the first group of repatriates under this bill... I hope that as soon as possible, because the queues, when it comes to repatriation visas, have been, I stress, for several years people have been waiting, so the first stage of implementation of this law has already been completed, i.e. they already have the right to arrive, of course housing conditions and adaptation centers. So we will try to get many repatriates to come to Poland this year. On the other hand, this first group of repatriates, which has served a little as an example of the problems we have to solve, has been since 20 December and there will be further groups. We estimate, because there was also a question about the number of people, that we would be able to 1,2 thousand. repatriates annually with these funds to be imported. What's the estimated number of people? Very different. There was talk of 30,000. Really, I think we should evaluate this at the level of about 10,000. That is because, unfortunately, even for this number of applications in Kazakhstan, in consulates, those applications which have already been granted a favourable examination, for more than 3,000. - if there was a reaction after a few years or a dozen years - unfortunately less than half are interested, the others probably left elsewhere. [[Russia.]] To Russia most often, but unfortunately this is the result not having been repatriated. So it's very difficult to estimate right now. We say, we estimate that it's gonna be about 10,000. If there is a need for more, then, of course, the financial limits which are enshrined in the Act - they are the implementation of the obligation of the Public Finance Act, because such limits must be - they will be increased, nothing prevents it if there is a need for more. This year it's PLN 24 million, but let's remember it's been six months, so we're not gonna achieve that much. However, for next year it is already 63 million PLN, so there is much more. We'll be observing the increase in repatriation. If these funds need to be supplemented, I do not doubt that the government will find such funds for this purpose. How effective will these changes be? Mr Andrzej Kryj asked. I hope that these changes: firstly, inviting unnamed, secondly, spouses, not necessarily Polish, thirdly, equal and stable rules for financing housing aid, will encourage repatriation and these people will be much more. But really, after a year, we're going to assess how effective it is and how it looks. I think so, that's it. I talked about the financial situation of the retired families, about the possibilities of financing and assistance. And I think... This law also defines many other things, including: exempts donations from tax. Many Polish families wanted this. Yeah, that too. It wasn't mentioned on purpose because it wasn't controversial, but it's written in this bill... [[Yeah, it's important.]] ...that if the Polish family wants to give someone property, then they are exempt from tax. Because there was indeed a situation where donations were made and the tax had to be paid. [[They couldn't pay.]] Yeah, yeah. So this is also solved in this amendment, and it will also help those who want to be involved in helping the repatriates. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say one more thing by thanking you for your work in committee, very efficient work, at the hands of both presidents, Chairman of the Sub-Committee of Małgorzata Wypych and Chairman of the Joint Committee of Mrs Schmidt. Thank you very much for the smooth implementation of this legislative process. I hope that the work at the meetings of these committees was very substantive and that we have listened to many comments. Moreover, some solutions appeared at the stage of the committee's work. I would like not only the Council for Repetition, but also that we all be good ambassadors of this matter, because apart from creating the legal conditions that this law creates, it is also important to create conditions and a good atmosphere among our community. For we must realise that the repatriates in most cases - we are in such years - no longer know the Polish language. This intensive study over a period of 3 months, very intense, of course allows us to communicate, to understand, etc., we already have a compacted, but yet we can hear the Russian accent very clearly and so that sometimes it is not so that our community will say that the Russians or others have arrived... The point is to build an atmosphere of kindness, that here Poles come back after many, many years of persecution, misfortune and we want to host these Poles, we want to help them, we want them to adapt, we want them to assimilate in Poland, in the country they longed for for for many, many years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u334	Thank you, Minister. Joanna Fabisiak submitted a corrigendum. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Four corrigendums or four cases. The first is that the Minister said there will be 63 million next year. That's a lot. But the civic project was 700 million. Mr. Płażyński himself withdrew from this, said: too expensive, we have to drown it. That's why we were working on it. How was it that we had the majority as a platform and didn't make a bill? For a simple reason. The committee was chaired by Mr Adam Lipiński. The project lay down, Mr. Adam Lipiński did not put it under discussion despite the monits on my side. [[That's not true.]] That's the other thing. Case number three... [[Voice from the Chamber: 8 years, Member.]] ...the third case concerns the Minister's statement that this 25 million could be a payment for the rent, but only PLN 300 per month. What about the others? That's the problem. And that's the last of it. Minister, why are the Poles going to Russia? Because they have very good conditions there. If they don't have good conditions here, they're gonna go there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's all it is. And I am doing this because these conditions are not attractive for Poles. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u336	Please, Minister Henryk Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u337	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would just like to explain that I was talking about next year, about PLN 63 million, while the effects of this law are estimated at PLN 474 million. And that doesn't mean it's over if more repatriates are needed. So let's not compare 60 to 700, but - if anything - 470 to 700. So that's one explanation. On the other hand, we are revisiting the issue of possible rent payments. Yeah, there's a limit, no more than 300 zł per repatriate per month. So please calculate that if a couple of pensioners... [[That's 600.]] ...will receive 600 zlotys a month's rent payment, plus he will normally get pensions like all our Polish citizens... Of course, we can offer you 1000 PLN, but will we be okay with our pensioners then? The measure and amount of aid must therefore also be weighed in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u338	Thank you. Please, the rapporteur for the committee of Małgorzata Wypych.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! As rapporteur for the committee, I wanted first of all to thank you very much for your work. As the Minister said here, we have actually worked very hard, we have developed many solutions that are our solutions, and that is the most important. Thank you very much to the Minister and to the entire team for the effort they have undertaken, because the bill is actually a completely new law. And there is a new philosophy, namely that the Polish state embraces the care of all its compatriots. Thank you very much again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u340	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that during the second reading, the draft amendment was submitted to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Communication Commission with Poles abroad in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Communication with Poles abroad on a draft law amending the consular law (prints No 1449 and No 1467). I ask Mrs Małgorzata Wypych to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report from the Communication Commission with Poles abroad and the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the Government's draft law amending the consular law, print No 1449. High Izbo! I inform you that the Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 4 April 2017, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. The Commission, after considering this draft at its meeting on 6 April 2017, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law on printing No 1449 without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u342	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ma'am Małgorzata Wypych, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In fact, the draft consular law complements the law which was adopted at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland, the law amending the law on the right to reduced travel by means of public collective transport and certain other laws. This law gives the right to relief for public transport and to relief for entry into museums and national parks in Poland to pupils of schools run by social organisations abroad registered in a database operated by an authorised entity responsible for education. That's it. align schools run by these organisations with schools that still exist at consulates so far. The Law on Powers will enter into force on 21 April 2017. According to the new regulation, documents certifying the right to use reduced journeys will be issued by the Consul of the Republic of Poland responsible for the seat of the school. The issuing of these documents, as well as the extension of their validity, should take place free of charge on the basis of the objective. Hence the amendment of the consular law. The aim of this project is to simplify the drawing up and issuing of documents to eligible pupils and teachers by replacing the individual procedure with a universal procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! Already on this holiday many Polish children who learn Polish language, history, geography, will be able to be in Poland on the same terms as students of our schools. How important this is to them, surely many of us know after meeting with Polonia. The lack of direct communication with the family country affects the fact that these people, especially children and young people, may forget their roots. As this law actually allows for the enforcement of the Traffic Act, the Law and Justice Club will certainly be in favour of this law. At the same time, I thank you very much for this initiative and for the possibility of practically benefiting from the relief. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u344	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club will support this bill. This was needed, we have already reported during the deliberations and work on the bill that this dissemination, this way of universal submission, the application for legitimacy is rightly needed. I have a question for the Minister. That's putting a lot of work on consulates. I'm thinking right now. about London, where there are so many Poles, where the consul who took care of this case is on leave, on leave, will then be on maternity leave, so this small consulate will be extraordinarily burdened. If the Minister were so good and he wanted to tell us how this problem would be solved. The second and much more difficult issue is the issue of extending the validity of these cards, but I understand that it will also be up to the consulate and the consulate to solve these problems. However, I would like to inform you that just today, and just now, the Warsaw Council voted that children in Warsaw will have free tickets. So that as if we were already in line with a certain rhythm of work, which will be undertaken under the rule of this amended law. I'm asking for an answer on the consulates, because I know, and it comes from my conversation with many consuls, that they were very afraid of this extra very big task. One more problem, especially concerning renewal. If the consulate is very distant, will the parents individually perform by letter? What's the road? Please, Minister, remind me, because I've received many distressed emails, as we will solve these problems. Finally, the final issue is complete information. The point is that the information not only about the law, but now about this amendment, about this new mode, about this clarification amendment, is in many places. I am also thinking of England, where there are a large number of local newspapers, in order to reach out to the public and to beneficiaries who often do not know about it. This is normal, busy people don't always follow existing and changing laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u346	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What is the law on amending the consular law that we are proceeding? Let's get back to this short, fast genesis. On 15 December 2016, the Sejm practically unanimously passed a law of the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Law on the right to reduced travel by public collective transport and other laws. Right to e.g. free travel, but also e.g. Access to museums or entrance to parks was granted to students of schools run by social organizations abroad. The founding of the legislator was very simple, the founding of the President was very simple - to grant a certain privilege to school students with Polish language abroad. It was not the idea of the legislator to benefit from this. The Act, which we are talking about, means the Law on reduced journeys, will enter into force on 21 April 2017. We're in the vacathio legis period right now. On the other hand, the problem has arisen because the documents which entitle Polish school pupils to travel free of charge are to be issued and extended by the relevant consulates, while, as we all know, the issuing of various documents or the carrying out of various activities by consulates involves certain consular fees. These amounts shall be determined by the Minister by means of a regulation. This short amendment corrects exactly what we are talking about, so we put it in the article. 112 consular law is a measure exempt from consular fees. I think that none of the clubs has any doubt that this is just a repairing amendment, and its rapid procedure is linked to the fact that it enters into force during the same period as the Act, i.e. April 21st. The Kukiz Club15 strongly supports the correction of this obvious error and we recommend that our Members vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u348	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This project is closely related to the law adopted by the Polish Sejm in December Ub. At the President's request, granting the right to relief in public transport, as well as access to museums and national parks for pupils of schools run by social organisations outside the Republic of Poland. This regulation deserves full support. It is nice to hear that local authorities decide - I refer to the information given earlier - to go even further and make free journeys available. I must say that last year I had the pleasure of hosting a group of 40 children from Ukraine in my parliamentary office and we also received the opportunity to travel completely free of charge thanks to the courtesy of the local authorities. We support this project, we vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u350	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas delivered his position in writing. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. The first question you ask is Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I take this project as another step towards something called integration, especially the young generation, the Polish youth with the matrix. My question is simple. What are the next steps? Expectations are big, appetite increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u352	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Jan Dziedziczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There weren't many questions. We very much welcome the adoption of this bill proposed by President Andrzej Duda. This is extremely important to us, because this is a form. support for young people who learn Polish at a Polish school abroad. This is backup. also for the families of these young people, who with their hard work cause that their children do not lose contact with Polishness. This is also a tribute to families in the country - most often grandparents - who will have additional tools to introduce those young people who come to Poland. This is extremely valuable in practical and symbolic terms. It was clear to us that these legitimacys should be issued free of charge, hence this proposal for an amendment and I thank the High House for its full understanding and for its consistent statements. These IDs will be issued free of charge by our consulates. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the questions of your fellow Members: Mrs Fabisiak was kind to ask how this will be done. Well, they will issue consulates, and they will issue consuls from the right places. On the other hand, it was polite for you to express your concern about the possibility of their work, the possibility, in colloquial terms, of reworking the material. Thank you very much for paying attention to this issue, because it is worth recalling the achievements of the Group of Members in terms of the liquidity of our consular services. A handful of statistics: in 2008, we performed as a Polish country, as a consular service, about a million 100 consular activities, today, in 2017, we perform 2.5 million consular activities per year. A million - 2.5 million, more than twice as many consular responsibilities. And what is the understanding of the PO-PSL coalition over the last 8 years of this process? The answer to the process of increasing the number of consular activities is the net liquidation of about 40 consular posts. In this way, the coalition of PO-PSL reacted to the increase in responsibilities of Polish consuls. I would like our fellow countrymen, who are watching our families here, in the country, sometimes nervous about waiting for a passport - waiting for our fellow countrymen in the East, for the Polish Charter, sometimes even for months - to remember why these waiting periods arise. With an increase from one hundred to two and a half million consular activities, the authorities of that time remove further consular posts. It was only in the last year that new consular posts were created, also in connection with this law that the Minister of Foreign Affairs applied to the Prime Minister for the amount from the reserve for new posts. As far as the details related to the implementation of this law are concerned, they are provided on the websites of consulates, in addition our consulates are in constant contact with Polish school heads, after all, through schools this card process will be implemented, based on the contact with the schools of consulates they will exercise legitimacy. As far as ideas for further action are concerned, I could, of course, mention a lot of them, but I am counting on your Members here. This country you are proposing solutions and we are implementing it as executive authority. We are waiting all the time for your proposal related to the representative of the parliament sent directly to Polonia. I will remind you that the ruling formation went to the elections with the slogan of the Polish senator, i.e. the representative of Polonia as a representative of the electoral district located outside Poland, the separation of this constituency of Warsaw and the rest of the world and the creation of a constituency to the Senate exclusively from the rest of the world, so that this is a proposal not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the parliamentarians that we are waiting for, and of course we will do so. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u354	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Małgorzata Wypych. The Member does not want to speak. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish education is a very important issue in the assessment of the PSL Parliamentary Club. Its law contains provisions on the entitlement of pupils to reduced journeys by public collective transport. The main goal is to balance the rights of Polish and Polish children learning abroad history, geography and Polish language with the rights of children attending schools in Poland in terms of public rail and bus transport, entrances to museums and national parks. The privileges relating to travel allowances shall also be granted to teachers in these schools. The PSL Club will consistently support initiatives promoting Polish education, so we will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u356	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 28 hrs 16 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries (Print No 1404). I ask the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to propose a bill to amend the Maritime Fisheries Act. The proposed law amends the Maritime Fisheries Act of 19 December 2014, in particular by repealing the provisions on aggregate fishing quotas, amending the rules on the transfer of individual fishing quotas or fishing days, their resignation and international exchanges. The draft law eliminates the maximum fishing capacity in the fleet segments referred to in Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1.3 Maritime Fisheries Act, including fishing vessels using which commercial fishing is carried out in those areas. In addition, the vessel owner may withdraw from all or part of the vessel in a special fishing permit the individual fishing quota of the species of marine organisms or fishing days concerned by 15 July. The amendments shall also consist of the repeal of Article. 89 Maritime Fisheries Act, which prohibited, with the exceptions provided for, the placing on the market of marine organisms derived from fishing carried out on the basis of permits, inter alia. within the framework of scientific research, and in addition to the content of Article. 127 Maritime Fisheries Act, paragraph 5, which will allow effective protection of areas excluded from commercial fishing. In addition, the draft law provides for the repeal of the article. 23 and Article 23 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 35 of the Law of 5 December 2008 on the organisation of the fish market due to the lack of EU regulation which would require such far-reaching The most important element of the draft law amending the Maritime Fisheries Act is the abolition of the possibility to transfer individual fishing quotas between fishing vessels. The rules currently in force allowing the transfer of individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels put in practice a privileged position for shipowners who are able to pay a certain amount of money to the vessel owner from whom the above mentioned. the fishing quota is to be obtained. The main purpose of the allocation of fishing opportunities shall be to carry out fisheries understood as fishing for marine organisms granted in a special fishing permit for commercial purposes. The transfer of individual fishing quotas between shipowners should therefore only take place in exceptional cases. Individual fishing quotas or fishing days which shipowners are not able to use in accordance with the rules in force should be returned to the Minister responsible for fisheries, who, using the powers conferred by the legislator, would re-distribute those additional fishing quotas. The individual fishing quota or number of fishing days specified in the special fishing permit may be transferred in whole or in part to another fishing vessel of the same vessel which, for at least 24 consecutive months before the date of submission of the request for transfer, was the vessel owner of the fishing vessels involved in the transfer. This proposal provides for the abolition of the possibility of aggregate fishing quotas, as requested by the fishing environment. The solution for the creation of the aggregate fishing quota has not yet been used and there is also no information from the fishing environment that would allow for the conclusion that this regulation will be used in the future. The proposed law extends the period of resignation of the vessel owner in the calendar year concerned from all or part of the quota allocated to him in the special fishing permit of the individual fishing quota of the species of marine organisms or fishing days until 15 July of the year concerned. The proposed law repeals paragraph. Article 2 and Article 3 9 the Law of 19 December 2014 on Maritime Fisheries in view of the need to extend the scope of freedom of economic activity partly limited by them. The restriction on freedom of establishment is that new fishing vessels cannot be introduced in fleet segments where the fishing capacity established by these provisions has been exhausted. In addition, the proposal provides for amendments to the Article. 12 Maritime Fisheries Act by extending the catalogue of prohibited acts. It is designed to prohibit fishing for species of marine organisms whose common quota has been exhausted. By-catch of species of marine organisms identified under Article 1 shall also be prohibited. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 3th Maritime Fisheries Act has been exhausted. These provisions aim to ensure effective conservation of marine living resources. It shall also be designed that the Minister responsible for fisheries shall immediately be informed of the use of 90% in the calendar year concerned. the common fishing quota of the species of marine organisms concerned, the exhaustion in a given calendar year of the common fishing quota of the species of marine organisms concerned or the exhaustion in a given calendar year of the fishing quota of the species of marine organisms identified pursuant to Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Maritime Fisheries Act published this information on the website of the office serving it and in a customary manner adopted in the area concerned. The proposed law provides for the repeal of the Article. 89 Maritime Fisheries Act. The current rules prohibited, with the exceptions provided for, the placing on the market of marine organisms derived from fishing carried out on the basis of permits, inter alia. as part of scientific research. Fish caught in connection with scientific research or development or for the purpose of training, in the field of marine fisheries, had to be disposed of so far, which did not allow the use of marine organisms caught in another way, allowing them to be used properly. The restriction does not have an equivalent in European Union law. In the Law of 5 December 2008 on the organisation of the fish market, the proposed regulation provides for the repeal of Article. 23 and Article 23 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 35 and consequently also repeal point 7 of paragraph 7. A key argument for repealing the article. The 23th Law on the Organisation of the Fish Market, which requires the first sale of certain fish species only at the centre of the first sale, is the fact that EU law does not require such a tightening solution as has been adopted in this provision. On the other hand, according to the article. 35 Law on the organisation of the fish market recognised fish producer organisations are obliged to report data on first sale using electronic software to register sales and take over fish products. The system currently used by fish producer organisations to report first sale fulfils all the conditions of Regulation 1224/2009 and it is therefore not justified to maintain Article. 35 Law on the organisation of the fish market. The proposed law provides that cases relating to the transfer of individual fishing quotas or fishing days and the exchange of international fishing quotas on request, initiated and not completed by a final decision, shall apply until the date of entry into force of this Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u358	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u359	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I will present our position on the draft Maritime Fisheries Act, which introduces a number of extremely important amendments to the current Maritime Fisheries Act. The most important change in the proposed project is the abolition of the possibility to transfer individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to create a barrier which will prevent the sale of individual fishing quotas and, in the assessment of part of the fishing environment, the sale of quotas granted in special fishing permits leads to the preference of shipowners who are able to pay a certain amount of money to the vessel from which the individual fishing quota is to be obtained. Shipowners who do not have adequate financial facilities are very often automatically excluded from the possibility of obtaining an additional fishing quota to increase the profitability of their business. Individual fishing quotas or fishing days which shipowners are unable to use in accordance with the rules in force should be returned to the Minister responsible for fisheries, who has already spoken of and who would have divided them. The allocation of additional fishing quotas is a tool for a fair distribution of returned fishing opportunities among shipowners of fishing vessels who are interested in fishing to a greater extent. The project assumes that an individual fishing quota or number of fishing days may be transferred in full or in part to another fishing vessel of the same vessel which, for at least 24 consecutive months before the date of submission of the request for transfer, was the vessel owner of the fishing vessels involved in that transfer. The introduction of an obligation for the vessel owner to have the status of vessel owner of fishing vessels between which the individual fishing capacity is to be transferred for a period of 24 months is, in accordance with the proposal, the restriction necessary for protection against possible attempts to avoid the possibility of transferring individual fishing quotas between shipowners. The proposed law extends the period for the vessel owner to withdraw from the fishing vessel in a given calendar year from all or part of it in a special fishing permit of the individual fishing quota of the species of marine organisms or fishing days until 15 July. Under the current rules, the operator of the fishing vessel shall be entitled to renounce all or part of the individual fishing quota of the species concerned by 30 June. The extension of the deadline is intended to allow shipowners to better estimate the individual fishing quotas at their disposal and their own fishing opportunities so that the resignation concerns quotas which the shipowners will not be able to catch. Another major amendment proposed in the draft law is the repeal of the rules on aggregate fishing quotas. The solution for creating the aggregate fishing quota has not yet been used. The condition for the creation of a collective fishing quota is the waiver by shipowners of fishing vessels associated with the recognised fish producer organisation concerned of their individual fishing quotas for the species of marine organisms concerned, so that no less than 5% of the sum of those quotas is available. the total fishing quota of this species allocated to Poland for the calendar year concerned. The draft law provides for the repeal of paragraph 1. Article 2 and Article 3 9, as the Minister mentioned, which concerns the maximum fishing capacity in fleet segments. According to the project, these provisions would restrict the freedom to conduct business, which meant that new fishing vessels could not be introduced in fleet segments whose fishing capacity has been exhausted by these provisions. By-catch of species of marine organisms whose quota allocated under the Maritime Fisheries Act will be exhausted will also be prohibited. The aim of this solution is to achieve more effective protection of marine living resources. It shall also be designed that the Minister responsible for fisheries shall immediately be informed of the use of 90% in the calendar year concerned. the common fishing quota of the species of marine organisms concerned, the exhaustion in a given calendar year of the common fishing quota of the species of marine organisms concerned or the exhaustion in a given year of the fishing quota of the species of marine organisms identified under the Maritime Fisheries Act, has published this information on the website as well as the Minister mentioned. According to the simplification project, international exchanges are to be carried out, which can be carried out either of its own motion or at the request of the vessel owner. The Act also provides for the repeal of the Article. The proposed regulation provides for the repeal of Article 89 on marine fisheries and additionally in the Law on the Organisation of the Fish Market. 23 and Article 23 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament The argument in favour of repealing the Article. 23 Act on the organisation of the fish market, which requires first sale [[♪ The bell ♪]] certain fish species only at the centre of the first sale, there is a lack of appropriate provisions of Union law - I am already finishing - requiring such a tightening solution as has been adopted in this provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u360	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u361	I'm done. The bill provides for...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u362	No, my fellow Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u363	...in transitional provisions that for matters relating to the transfer of an individual fishing quota...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u364	Madam, time is up, I apologize. They all have the same rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u365	I'm finishing my sentence. ...and the exchange of international fishing quotas on request, initiated and not completed by decision...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u366	Mr Tadeusz Azievicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u367	...and not finished with the decision...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u368	I am so sorry, Member. We need to keep an eye on certain standards. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Of course, one sentence would save your marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Maritime Fisheries Act, print No 1404. High Seym! As already mentioned, the main objective of this project is to eliminate the negative phenomenon of the transfer of individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels. I would like to remind you that the total fishing quota allocated to the Republic of Poland in accordance with European Union rules is divided into individual fishing quotas which limit the size of fishing carried out by shipowners of fishing vessels. In the current legal state, shipowners of vessels who are unable to fish for an individual quota allocated to them for a given year shall have the right to transfer it to other shipowners with greater fishing opportunities. This is intended to make full use of the total amount allocated to Poland. This solution seems rational and is applied in other European Union countries, but according to some fishing communities it has negative consequences in terms of fishing quota trade. The result is the creation of a group of shipowners whose main source of income is not from fishing but from the sale of quotas allocated to them. On the other hand, shipowners who do not have adequate financial capacity cannot obtain an additional fishing quota, which deprives them of an opportunity to increase the profitability of their activities. The project's authors propose a far-reaching reduction in the possibility of transferring fishing quotas. This will only be possible between vessels belonging to the same ship owner. The remaining amounts are to be returned to the Minister responsible for fisheries, who will distribute them again. The proposal also provides for the abolition of the possibility of aggregate fishing quotas. I would remind you that the condition for such an amount is the waiver by shipowners of fishing vessels associated with the organisation of fish producers of their individual quotas, so that no less than 5% of their sum can be recovered from them. the total fishing quota of a specific species allocated to Poland for the calendar year concerned. This solution has not yet been used and there is no information from the fishing community on the interest in this form of business activity. The project also extends the catalogue of prohibited acts, e.g. a prohibition on fishing for species of marine organisms the common quota of which has been exhausted, which is intended to lead to more effective conservation of marine resources. Therefore, the authors propose that the Minister responsible for Fisheries should publish this information on the Authority's website as soon as information is provided on the use of the common quota of the species concerned in a given calendar year. When discussing this project, it is also worth noting the repeal of the rules prohibiting the placing on the market of marine organisms derived from fisheries conducted in the context of scientific research or for the purpose of training. In the current legal situation, this leads to their disposal. High Seym! This draft contains proposals to be considered by the committee responsible, which is why, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that it be referred to further work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u370	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u371	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Poselski Kukiz Club15 on the government proposal for a law amending the Maritime Fisheries Act. After consulting the fish processors industry, I can say that the proposed law takes into account the interests of Polish fisheries operators in general. A good solution is to liquidate the monopoly of first-sales centres. Although, according to the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber, these centres were fully prepared to provide the services necessary for the effective introduction of fish for the first sale, ensuring that fish can be picked up and stored under appropriate conditions, the existing first sale rules did not favour the concentration of supply and the strengthening of the market position of the producer organisation. The choice by the producer of the place of sale and the buyer prevented the centres from carrying out their basic statutory task - auction or session sales of fishery products. The insufficient participation of the centres in the fish market has made their impact on improving the competitiveness and sustainability of the fishing sector small. The small efficiency of the centres, and thus their minor impact on improving the competitiveness of the fishing sector, was primarily due to the choice of the producer of the place of sale and the buyer. This allows fish producers to sell fish in any place they choose without any restrictions. However, NIK pointed out that for this reason most producers sold fish outside the centres, including directly to consumers in Denmark and Sweden, with the exception of the first sale of fish species whose resources require increased protection or surveillance, e.g. cod or salmon. Another reason for malfunctioning was the freedom of location of centres resulting in too many centres in one port; e.g. There were five centres in the port of Kołobrzeg managed by competing producer organisations. The small share of fish sales of centres in relation to their potential was also a consequence of the approach of controlled producer organisations which did not enforce from their members - or did not establish it at all - an obligation to sell all the catch through their own centres. Another change that will enter into force thanks to this Act will be the elimination of the negative phenomenon of trade in individual fishing quotas between shipowners. The changes were requested by some of the fishing communities concerned with the development of the maritime fisheries sector and the real pursuit of fishing activities. Under the rules in force, shipowners of fishing vessels who are unable to catch an individual fishing quota allocated to them for a given year may transfer it to another vessel which catches it, which should allow the use of the overall fishing quota allocated to our country. This solution was intended to make more efficient use of fishing quotas, but in practice it has led to individual trade in quotas between shipowners. The good news is that by changing the bill, there's going to be an order here. It is good that an extension of the period until 15 July for the vessel owner to submit an application for resignation in a given year is provided for in part or in whole of the individual fishing quota or fishing days allocated to it. To date, this application had to be submitted by 30 June. By extending this period, individual fishing quotas or fishing days available to shipowners can be better estimated so that the resignation concerns only the part which the shipowners will not be able to use until the end of the year. After consulting industry representatives, I can say with all responsibility that the law is the answer to the existing paradoxes that existed in the industry. He is pleased that the Polish government finally listened to the voice of fishermen on our coast. I would also like to add that in our consultations actually for 15 years there has always been this dissonance between Warsaw and Pomerania. The fishermen from Władysławów, Darlov, Świnoujście were not well listened to not only in Brussels, but also in Warsaw. So that we personally are very pleased with these changes to the bill and we are glad to continue to process them in the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the Law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries and some other laws. The proposed law amends the Law of 19 December 2014 on Maritime Fisheries, in particular by: repealing the rules on collective fishing quotas; amending the rules on the transfer of individual fishing quotas or fishing days; amending the provisions on the waiver of individual fishing quotas; departing from the limits of the maximum fishing capacity in the three main segments of the fleet, including the fishing vessels using commercial fishing in those areas; extending by 15 July the time limit for the vessel to resign from all or part of the quota granted to it in the special fishing permit of the individual fishing quota of the species of marine organisms or fishing days concerned; repealing Article. 89 Maritime Fisheries Act, which in principle prohibited the placing on the market of marine organisms derived from fishing carried out on the basis of permits, inter alia. within the framework of scientific research or development; addition to Article. 127 Maritime Fisheries Act, paragraph 5, which bans fishing in areas excluded from commercial fishing; repeal of Article. 23 and Article 23 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 35 of the Law of 5 December 2008 on the organisation of the fish market due to the lack of mandatory EU regulation which would require the use of restrictions of as wide scope as today. The main objective of the amendment is to eliminate trade in fishing quotas by the fishing environment, which in practice has led to an uneven and unfair distribution of fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels, with particular prejudice to smaller shipowners. The proposed changes in principle exclude this trade in fishing quotas, leaving only the possibility to transfer these quotas between individual vessels of the same ship owner. In order to avoid undue manipulation in this respect, a ship owner wishing to transfer all or part of the quota will have to demonstrate that he was a ship owner of fishing vessels involved in the transfer for at least 24 months prior to the transfer. High Izbo! Club Parliamentary The modern recommendation of the High House is that the proposal be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u374	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u375	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to pass opinions, suggestions and conclusions on the governmental draft law on amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries and other laws, print No 1404. Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government project, which has been prepared and submitted in our opinion unambiguously, clearly and clearly, contains the objectives indicated and defines the way in which these objectives can be achieved. They have also been deployed in time and space. In my view, the Minister explained in detail and in depth the objectives of this project and pointed out the changes that will be introduced both in the current law and in those acts which are to co-operate and co-ordinate, covering the whole area of operation and co-operation. In our view, this is a good, appropriate action to put this issue in order, to eliminate the phenomena that have emerged, and to give new actors a chance to emerge as well. That is why we are of the opinion that we should continue to work on this project and conclude this by adopting a new law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u376	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, from the Free and Solidarnia Circle, gave her position in writing. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Will preventing trade granted by individual fishing quotas affect the overall level of use by Poland of the overall catch limit allocated by the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u378	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u379	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! If we are talking about such a law, it would be worth knowing the extent to which quotas have been allocated to other shipowners so far. Were they foreign shipowners? If yes, please indicate the country of origin of such ship owner. And can you estimate the losses of the State Treasury in connection with such practices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u380	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The environment interested in the impact of the changes on their economic environment is wondering why these changes should be made now. In a few months' time, the law will have to be refined again, since the new year will change the current EU legislation on sea fishing. Another issue is the fishing opposition of 80 vessels with crews to change - I do not know if the Ministry notes it. They argue that imposing additional restrictions on economic freedom on Polish fishermen will drastically reduce their competitiveness. The Ministry's intentions, in their view, are the influence of lobbyists who seek to deprive small shipowners of their fishing quotas. Their fishing quotas will go to lobbying vessels. The protesting group prepared a number of demands. I wanted to ask if they would be the subject of attention in the course of further work on this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u383	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. It is good that we extend the deadline for the company to apply for resignation in a given year from part or all of the individual quota allocated for fishing, here we have the deadline by 15 July. This is a very good direction, but I wanted to ask the Minister where the deadline came from. Why July 15th? Or do you still need to extend that term? Was there a consultation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u384	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: Have there been public consultations in the coastal area with all local fishing associations, e.g. from Kolobrzeg, Darlov, Mielna, Boys and other towns in my Koszalin district? But it's also about all the fishing, the companies that do the fishing on the Baltic Sea. I'll admit I've spoken to the fishermen from my territory and they're not aware of the entry into force of this bill. Is the mistake on the side of the Ministry or the fishing associations that they don't really know about it? And one more question: How is it with these fish anyway? Are there fish in the sea? Have they been reduced or renewed? What's the status of the fish today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u386	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Marek G grubarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the questions presented, it should be noted at the outset that Polish fishing is in a very difficult situation. This does not apply only to Polish fishermen. The problem concerns the entire Baltic Sea and falling fishing quotas. In the light of the latest information we have received from the ICS, which is an organisation that estimates resources, it is recommended to further reduce fishing quotas, which will be recommended to the European Commission in the next negotiations. As a result, our actions aim primarily at the use of the fully allocated fishing quota to Poland. Of course, the worst thing that happens and affects use is illicit trafficking in these amounts. I say: illegal, because it is not permitted by law, so such transactions take place outside the opinion, except daylight, when it comes to making sales. This is quite common in certain environments. Of course, our estimates show that this has a significant impact on the fishing quota, on the use by the vessel owner of the fishing quota. However, in order to be able to make clear accusations, we would have to have evidence in this regard. But how do you understand when a fisherman gets a fishing quota on 15 December, and on 15 January it is already transferred to another fisherman as part of the transfer of its quota? This makes it clear that he simply does not intend to use this fishing quota and will not fish for the year of operation of the fishing quota, which implies unambiguous associations. That is why our goal is to stop this action, which is, however, intended to be an overriding issue, i.e. the use of fishing quotas. This is aimed at the forthcoming negotiations with the European Commission, which always points to the transfer of fishing quotas to the country concerned based on the use of previous years. If we look at the Polish use of fishing quotas - and here first of all let us concentrate on cod, because this is a strategic species - it was 78% in 2016. , in 2015 - 75% Total amount in 2014 - 55% Total amount in 2013 - 59% Total amount in 2012 - 68% , 2011 - 77% and in 2010 - 87%. There is a real risk that in the near future we will meet with the European Commission's proposal to limit Poland's fishing quota for cod. We are therefore introducing measures to increase the use of this amount. This now seems to be the only rational action carried out by the Minister responsible for fisheries - the transfer of quotas to shipowners who actually carry out fishing activities. I have no association with the fact that our action is the task of whether or not it is in line with the fishing quota lobby, because it is going against this action, because we are transferring, we want to transfer quotas to those who will carry out fishing activities, not those who would like to trade, what could have been achieved in the past period, because only these rich or more wealthy fishermen could afford - which all the time needs to be stressed - illegal purchases of fishing quotas. We clearly want to oppose this, and we have repeatedly declared support for small fishing. Action on EU measures, which are primarily intended to help small fishermen, was our main objective that has been achieved. 15 July entails the last possible deadline for the transfer of fishing quotas in order to distribute them in the second half of the year and to use them until the end of the year concerned. As far as consultations are concerned, they have been carried out very widely. There is an advisory team that meets regularly with fishermen. For my part, I declare full openness, willingness to discuss and bring about final solutions, which we also want to achieve through compromise with the fishing environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u388	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u389	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries. The draft law repeals, among others, rules on the transfer of individual fishing quotas or fishing days between different shipowners. According to the existing provisions of the Act, it was possible to transfer individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels. This solution was controversial and the sale of fishing quotas to certain shipowners was a substitute for the profits from fishing. The amendment of the law explicitly and in my view rightly excludes the possibility of transferring fishing quotas. The amendment shall only maintain the possibility for the vessel owner concerned to transfer fishing quotas between his vessels. This solution, it seems, is a logical procedure and beneficial for the interests of the state. The individual fishing quota or number of fishing days specified in the special fishing permit may be transferred in full or in part to another fishing vessel of the same vessel which, for at least 24 consecutive months before the date of submission of the request for transfer, has been the vessel owner of the fishing vessels involved in that transfer. This provision is intended to prevent temporary exchanges of fishing quotas between shipowners who, in order to make use of the economic situation, will temporarily re-subscribe their vessel to another vessel owner. The current rules allowing the transfer of individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels in practice put ship owners in a privileged position who have large and free funds to buy out additional fishing quotas from shipowners who, for various reasons, did not want or could not use their allocation. I don't think that was fair. Unused amounts should be distributed fairly to other shipowners. Following the repeal of the provisions on the transfer of individual fishing quotas or fishing days between different shipowners in the Act, it was necessary to organise the whole of the Act by repealing or clarifying additional points relating to the repealed provisions. However, this does not affect the provisions of the Act and as an editorial procedure does not require justification at this stage. The amendment of the law in accordance with the suggestions of the fishing environment also abolishes aggregate fishing quotas. I am convinced that repealing the rules in this respect will not have a negative impact on fisheries. The Act also extends the period for the vessel owner to resign from all or part of the fishing authorisation granted to it in a specific fishing authorisation for the individual fishing quota of the species of marine organisms or fishing days concerned in the calendar year concerned. The extension of this deadline will make it easier for shipowners to assess their needs in this respect. A very important amendment provided for in the draft law is the repeal of the provisions which prohibited the placing on the market of marine organisms derived from fishing carried out on the basis of permits, inter alia. as part of scientific research. To date, fish caught to carry out research, development or training of marine fisheries specialists have been disposed of. The contested law allows the use of marine organisms caught by other means. I am convinced that the proposed law will contribute to the development of the marine fisheries sector and will put an end to the bad practices of ship owners so far. In view of the above, the Free and Solidarni Circle asks for further proceedings of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u390	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries, contained in print No 1404, to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and some other laws (print No 1409). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Sebastian Chwałk to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to you a draft law amending the Regional Accounting Chambers Act and certain other laws. The changes proposed in the draft law concerning the functioning and organisation of regional financial chambers should contribute to the effectiveness of the supervisory and control activities of the chambers. The launch of this draft law was due to the need to address the negative trends related to the over-indebtedness of local government units, which adversely affects the economic condition of the local government and the state. There are currently no fully adequate control mechanisms available for rapid diagnosis of the situation and potential risks to public finances. The control powers so far do not fully cover the financial activity of the local government, thus creating a legal gap that is used to the detriment of the finances of the local government. Here, as an example, the dangerous debt of Ostrowice in the last years in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship can be used - its debt has been over 400% in recent years. the amount of the annual budget. It is also necessary to improve the organisation of regional financial chambers, including inter alia. introducing an impartial procedure for the selection of persons in charge of chambers. The project presented to the State includes changes both to improve the control activities of the regional financial chambers and to optimise the achievement of the objectives of the control and supervisory activities of the chambers. In this respect, we extend the scope of the control activities of the Chambers by involving legal persons to which local government units, metropolitan unions and associations of local self-government units, associations of local self-government units and other local self-government units, including local self-government entities, directly or indirectly influence them. Further, we are creating an instrument enabling the President of the Chamber to inform the competent authority supervising the audited entity of the fact that the audited entity has failed to notify the performance of post-control applications or of unjustified non-execution of them - this is necessary in particular in situations of repeated persistent non-execution of post-control applications. In addition, the amendment provides for the supervisory procedure to include resolutions amending the budgetary resolution - which have not yet been included - and resolutions on the multiannual financial forecast or its amendment. It is also important to introduce an obligation for regional audit chambers to notify law enforcement authorities of a legitimate suspicion of the offence. The project also includes changes concerning the organisation of regional accounting chambers, moving towards higher standards for the work of chambers while opening up more access to work in chambers. Here we are introducing changes concerning the appointment of competition committees for the positions of Presidents of Chambers - these committees will be appointed at the President of the Council of Ministers, and not, as yet, within the Regional Audit Chamber. The competition committee will consist of 5 members: one representative of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister responsible for public administration, the Minister responsible for finance, as well as the National Council of Regional Courts of Auditors and the local government of the Joint Government and the Local Government. This will allow for impartial, non-intelligence and interdependencies within the Chamber to select the best candidates for presidents. At the same time, we allow you to apply for the status of a member of the college not only for a person with a 4-year traineeship in units connected with the functioning of local government or public finances, but also with 4-year scientific and teaching experience. The draft also includes proposals to seal anti-corruption bans by prohibiting the appointment of members of the college of persons who are punished by the prohibition on the exercise of functions relating to the disposal of public funds, as well as the performance of the post of non-tertiary member of the college by the person employed in that college. In addition, the amendment provides for the immediate enforceability of the decision to revoke the President, Deputy or Member when he has been convicted by a final judgment for a criminal offence committed by intent or has been legally punishable by a ban on public resources and the possibility for the President of the Council of Ministers to grant immediate enforcement of a decision to revoke the President, Deputy or Member where there is a risk of non-executing tasks in the Regional Audit Chamber or in the event of repeated violations of the law in the performance of his duties or of repealing them. This draft contains a number of provisions clarifying the Regional Financial Chambers Act. Here the example can be used, among others. identification of the tasks of the National Council of Regional Courts of Auditors, punitiveisation of certain behaviours related to the control carried out, e.g. failure to inform the performance of the post-control requests or to close the gap by ensuring that the Deputy President is directing the operation of the Chamber in the event of the death or immediate dismissal of the President. In addition, the project also provides for amendments to the Local Government Act, the Regional Government Act and the Regional Government Act, according to which, under certain conditions, the President of the Council of Ministers will be able to grant immediate enforcement of supervisory decisions concerning, first, the cancellation or termination of an executive body of a local government unit and the designation of a person who, until the new authority is elected, will be able to act as such - in the event of repeated violations of the Constitution or laws and the failure of the voivode to call on these authorities to cease infringements. Another element will be the suspension of the authority of local government units and the establishment of a committee board for a period of up to 2 years in the event of a rapid improvement and a prolonged lack of effectiveness in the performance of public tasks by the authorities of local government units. The project was subject to extensive consultation. As part of this consultation, we have seen in the majority acceptance of the solutions adopted in it. They were agreed and the project was also agreed within the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. The local government, the committee has given a positive opinion on this matter. It also requires that the draft law amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and certain other laws at the last meeting of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission was cited by the local government as a positive example of dialogue with the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u392	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present a position vis-à-vis the Government's draft law amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and certain other laws contained in print No 1406. The main objective of the draft law amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and some other laws is to strengthen the control and auxiliary functions of regional Financial Chambers vis-à-vis local government, which will allow inter alia. to address the negative trends of over-indebtedness of local government units more effectively and thus to strengthen the economic position of local government as individuals. It is necessary to modify both the competences and the system solutions for chambers, inter alia. by ordering and sealing control powers. It is also planned to introduce arrangements for supervisory decisions taken in the event of a lack of effectiveness of local authorities in the performance of public tasks and issued in situations of repeated infringements by the executive body. The changes proposed in the draft on the functioning and organisation of the chambers will contribute to the effectiveness of the supervisory and control activities of the chambers, which will allow for a faster and proportionate response to increasingly frequent situations of deterioration in the finances of individual local government units. The main changes proposed in the amendment to the law were just presented by the Minister. I'm just gonna focus on the most important issues. Firstly, the control activities were extended by the inclusion of legal persons affected by local government units. The amendment should help to address the risk of insolvency of local government units resulting from the transfer of debt to other entities more effectively. Legal doubts arise when private entities are co-owners of the company. We have many such examples. Municipal companies with the participation of local government units are an increasingly important tool for carrying out public tasks and have a public asset, so it is desirable that they be subject to control through regional audit chambers. Secondly, chambers are outside the structure of government administration and therefore the minister responsible for public administration does not have the powers provided for in supervision under the hierarchised government administration. Here is the proposed new wording for this amendment of the Act, art. 2 (2) 1 a law which clarifies the nature of the supervision exercised by the Minister responsible for public administration over chambers by indicating that it concerns administrative activities. Thirdly, the President of the Council of Ministers, at the request of the Minister responsible for public administration, shall determine, by means of a regulation, the territorial scope of their operation, the seat of the local teams, the detailed organisation of the chambers and the number of members in the college in each of them, with a view to ensuring the smooth functioning of the chambers and the rational performance of the tasks assigned to them. Fourthly, in order to ensure efficient and effective management of chambers' management, a limitation of the term of office of the President of the Chamber is introduced, which will allow for the necessary rotation of staff, in principle, in terms of functioning. Then, proposed in the draft, the new wording of the article. In particular, 16 assumes that the contest committee for the President of the Chamber will be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers. This solution will eliminate the potential risk of both the Presidents of the Chambers and the individual members of the college having an impact on the performance of the competition for the post of President in the next term of office. The amendment also introduces amendments to the appeal of both the President of the Chamber and his deputy in the event of a flagrant failure to comply with his duties. Additional mechanisms shall be put in place to ensure immediate response in situations where the chamber is dysfunctionally affected. Therefore, the decision to revoke the President of the Chamber will be entitled to immediate enforcement by the President of the Council of Ministers insofar as there is a risk of failure to perform tasks in the Chamber or where the reason for the appeal was a repeated violation of the law in the performance of the duties of the officer concerned. Seventhly, it is also necessary to seal the anti-corruption ban on civil law work for the entities referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 2, prohibiting such work as part of an additional employment relationship. The project, by sealing and strengthening the supervision of the financial economy of local government units, should have positive social and economic effects and ensure the smoother functioning of regional financial chambers. The Law and Justice Club will support the proposed amendments to the Act and recommend them to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u394	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I present an opinion on the Act amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and other laws. The proposed law is an attempt to transform an independent and objective control body into a subordinate government body with powers and tools to repress and discipline local government units according to unclear and vague criteria. As regards the justification for the project, we believe that there is no link between the state of over-indebtedness of a few small municipalities and the effectiveness of the financial control and supervision tools and mechanisms set out in the present Regional Audit Chambers Act. Rules to prevent over-indebtedness of local government units are enshrined in the Public Finance Act. [[Of course.]] They are rigorous enough to be properly enforced, which has been done so far. The mechanism adopted in this amendment is simple and clear, but I do not hesitate to say that it is also primitive: firstly, the submission of the regional accounting chambers of government administration, first of all by selecting and dismissing the President of these chambers, secondly, a significant increase in the powers of regional chambers by extending the scope of control and control functions - I would like to draw attention to two issues: access to databases and personal data of employees in controlled entities and the recording ordering controlled officials to transfer copies, copies or extracts of controllers without the head of the unit - thirdly, to equip the President of the Council of Ministers with the power to revoke, terminate or suspend each government body with an immediate declaration of enforceability. These changes in the law on municipal, district and voivodship authorities agree to the constitutionally guaranteed in the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) [[Applause]] Moreover, the vague and judgmental grounds for such action create uncontrollable freedom to abuse these drastic steps. In conclusion, the draft law does not result from the need to improve the effectiveness of the regional financial chambers, but rather from the desire to take away the subjectivity and independence of the local government units, gives the Prime Minister the unjustified power to reprisal wojites, mayors, presidents, district and voivodeships and their resolution bodies, including their cancellation or resolution. The amendment was adopted by Polish local governments, Minister, with concern and opposition. I would remind you that the record was that the agreement with the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Self-Government was positively positive. I don't know what that means. It also raises huge doubts about the National Council of Regional Courts of Auditors that, I quote: the project submitted for consultation is inconsistent in many places and the proposed regulations conflict with the principles of the rule of law resulting from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. And the second quote: Doubts arise as to whether the main objective defined by the designers, i.e. strengthening the safeguards against uncontrolled debt of local government units will be achieved after the proposed changes have been made. Therefore, considering the project to be unnecessary and harmful, I request that it be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u396	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present my position on behalf of the Kukiz club15 on the draft Print Act No 1409 amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and certain other laws together with draft implementing acts. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Maybe a few things are worth getting straightened out, 'cause I feel like there's a lot of simplification. Let us remember that regional clearing houses are an institution incorporated in the Constitution - Article. 171, where it is clearly indicated that it is a financial audit body. Previously, we are talking about the voivodeship and the government, the Council of Ministers, so we are talking about an institution that cannot really be eliminated and cannot be eliminated because it has a constitution. On the other hand, we are talking about an institution whose employees are neither civil servants nor self-government workers and belong to the state control administration. Let's move on. The substance is a mess, because on the one hand, RIO under the responsibility of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration in the sense of staff, budget, but in fact they have more in common with the Ministry of Finance. The conclusion is that it is very good that we lean over the RIO as a matter to be dealt with, because I have the impression that after the change in local government reform somewhere, this case has slipped away and we forgot about it. We need to sort this out, and maybe we can agree that it's either the M.E.A. or the M.F. That's one thing. Second thing. In my opinion, RIO they are treated a little spychically, because on the one hand, duties and competences are coming, and on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, these workers have the worst earnings. Employees are subject to high demands, and they earn very little, average wages are at net level Two and a half thousand. Evil, but they're really doing a great job. And another thing. For me, the RIO should be the crowning of government work. This should be the financial elite that should work there, not be a factor of large turnover. We in the self-government committee raise this problem every year, we hear that there are low wages and that there is a large turnover among employees. There will never be a stable job in an institution with such low earnings compared to tax offices or to NIK where it earns in a chimney manner even if it compares with RIO. Another thing, I have the impression that when Mrs. Beata Szydło's government was formed, the idea of fictional competitions was finished, and here again we are talking about competitions. Minister, not more simply to appoint - or cancel - the president for a term of six years? Because this way we have a clear case, since we're dating that the head of government is the head of all the officials, he's picking the boss, the president. The college thing, the next topic, huge fiction, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the college are actually an irresistible body, because they have to either die or quit, or they have to go to prison to lose their right to work in a college. So what does that mean? That these are people, such our forest grandparents, not to be moved, and the president is their hostage. Wouldn't it be easier for the president to choose a college and introduce a six-year cadetship, and thus shake a little bit with those colleges who have become a good retirement home for warm jobs that give really amazing profits? Because we're talking about a salary of 7,8,000. Gross, ladies and gentlemen. What's more, they're choosing their boss, their president, and at this point the president on those old rules. He's their hostage. Maybe it's time to stop, and at the same time open up to other self-governments? To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I would like the RIO theme has not been repealed in this discussion. I would like the MMA, the local government committee, the Sejm committees to sit down and answer how to make this institution, a very important financial institution, a controlling institution, substantive, professional and decently treated employees who today - I have the impression - do a good job for very low salaries, with huge demands and expectations. That's it. We will support this work and I am counting on the government's openness to the talks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u398	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club regarding the government draft law amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and some other laws, print No 1409. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the fundamental purpose of this law is, I quote, to strengthen the control and support functions of the local government of RIO, which will allow inter alia. more effectively counteracting adverse trends related to over-indebtedness of local government units, end of quote. Surely such a goal would be worthy of attention, and it would probably give us full understanding if only it were reflected in reality. On the other hand, the government deficit figures of the Ministry of Finance and GUS show that in 2012 this deficit amounted to 4.5 billion, representing 0.3 of GDP, in 2013 the deficit amounted to 2.9 billion, representing 0.2 of GDP, in 2014 the deficit amounted to 3.2 billion, representing 0.2 of GDP, while in 2015 the local government sector reached a surplus. According to current data presented by the Ministry of Finance for 2016 local governments can also achieve a surplus, which is a record, of almost PLN 8 billion. Where, then, is the justification for what you claim in the statement that we are talking about the over-indebtedness of local government units? It's a lie. It's a lie. You're pointing out a unit example of one of the tiny municipalities that happened just and exclusively... You condescendingly want to take over another local government institution, this time the regional financial chambers. On the other hand, it should be strongly emphasised that, when we are talking about the debt of local government units, sufficient mechanisms are activated in the Public Finance Act - art. 242, a balancing expenditure rule requiring the balancing of revenue and current expenditure or Article. 243, another individual debt ratio. And these are the real mechanisms that make local government units not indebted, Minister, and the regional accounting chambers are on the watch of this, Mr President, which are fully professional and substantive in ensuring control of local government units. However, in this law, in principle, the sole purpose of the State is simply to select its own people as members, as presidents of regional chambers of accounts, to deprive the regional seymies of influence on the seat of the chambers or their branches, to enable the governors to function de facto for an indeterminate period of time - I would remind you that at the moment, in the regional chambers of accounts, these are two terms - or the possibility of hand-held, practically, from the thick finger, of dismissing the presidents of the regional chambers of accounts, which is to ensure that these institutions are subject only to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. On the other hand, the great Kuriozum are and the specific words of condemnation deserve the provisions which require the introduction of an immediate feasibility clause for supervisory decisions, authorising the President of the Council of Ministers to do so, thus enabling the possibility of manually influencing independent units, such as local government units. It should also be noted that these provisions allowing this immediately enforceable clause to be applied are, in fact, blank rules, which can be understood very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] wide. I've presented all these flaws on behalf of... not all of them, because I still have a little bit of them to show off, but we're running out of time. The Modern Posel Club requests that the project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u400	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and some other laws from print No 1409. According to the Government's justification, the aim of this project is, firstly, to strengthen the control and auxiliary functions of regional financial chambers vis-à-vis local government units, secondly, to counter the negative trends in the over-indebtedness of these entities. The project proposes a number of changes concerning the functioning and organisation of regional financial chambers. The most important of these are the subject of the supervisory procedure of resolutions amending the budgetary resolution, as well as resolutions on the multiannual financial forecast or its amendment, the appointment of competition committees to hold competitions for the Presidents of the Chambers at the President of the Council of Ministers, and not, as yet, within the Regional Financial Chambers, the possibility for the President of the Council of Ministers to give immediate effect to the decision to revoke the President of the Chamber - similarly in the case of the establishment of a committee board and the termination or revocation of the executive body of the local government - or, finally, the determination of the seat and territorial scope of the chambers, the local seats, the number of members of the formation college, the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister of Administration without the opinion of the Provincial Sejmika. High Izbo! According to the changes presented to a limited extent, it is difficult to see here this strengthening of the auxiliary, advisory or information function of the Regional Audit Chamber vis-à-vis the local government. The whole project dominates, and even strengthens, the function of control of individuals and its absolute consequences, including the issuing of decisions under immediate feasibility. In the justification of the project dominates, repeats such a basic idea of unfavorable or even hostile attitude towards local governments. It is local governments - according to the rulers - who are subject to the tendency of over-indebtedness, non-respect of post-control recommendations or not to do them at all, or even to combination. On many occasions local governments move to companies tasks that they do not want to be carried out by an executive body because of legal or ethical doubts. This is how the government justifies this project. And such a project, where only control and sanctions for local governments dominates, is unacceptable in our view. The project is a typical example of the next stage of self-government ownership and centralization of institutions. In fact, it seems unbelievable that the determination of the territorial scope of the Chamber, its seat, its premises or the number of members of the college of decision will take place without an opinion, without the knowledge of the host of the province concerned. The opinion of the voivodship sejm cannot be replaced, ladies and gentlemen, by the central opinion of the committee of common government and self-government. Organisations, associations of different levels of government have a negative opinion on this project. I didn't get a single positive opinion from the local government. Particular opposition has been raised by the determination that there is over-indebtedness in the local government sector. That is not true. Local governments only admit individual, accidental cases of over-indebtedness of local government units. In conclusion, this project is a direct impact on the constitutionally guaranteed autonomy of local government units, and only the perversely justified by the alleged concern for the local government and its economic position. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I submit a request to reject this project at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u402	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to join us, I'm still here. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one minute, because we're running late. Okay, 1.5. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform. There is no envoy, we saved that. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll save that time, too. Minister, you know, we, Kukiz,15, always look at jobs, spending money, and it's gonna be no different this time, That's why my question is the following. Will the planned extension of the powers and responsibilities of the regional financial chambers require the establishment of new posts? Do we have analyses on the possible number of jobs needed at national level, and can new tasks be outsourced to third parties? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u404	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u405	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The amendment of the Act on Regional Financial Chambers is another stage in the fight against law and justice against local governments. The draft law strikes the independence of local self-government units guaranteed by the Constitution. It eliminates the basic system assumption that accompanied the creation of RIO, i.e. their independence from government administration. The appointment of RIO presidents is de facto addictive to the government. Other elements of the fight against self-government are greater control powers RIO and the possibility for the Prime Minister to dismiss the presidents of cities or marshals of the voivodship with a clause of immediate feasibility. The question to the Minister is: Will the government listen to the voice of the sovereign, who are self-government... [[No.]] ...and representatives of the Polish Towns Association to set up a committee in the competition proceedings consisting of two representatives of the government, two representatives of the local government, the Joint Government and the Territorial Government Commission, and one representative of the College of the RIO and the national representation of the Boards of Accounts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u406	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're dealing with a bill that's another HR bill. Another law, which in the positions of presidents and members of colleges is to give more jobs to Pisiewicz. Minister, why this hatred of this self-government, which has been functioning smoothly for 27 years? Which one came true on this 27-year-old road? We have great CEOs, we have great regional accounting chambers, and I'm surprised why you suddenly came up with the idea that we're gonna put commercial law companies in control under the coat of regional accounting chambers. After all, these companies are doing very well, they are doing better than companies of the State Treasury, they have control under the Commercial Code. Local governments and other entities that have their shares in these companies are very bravely watching and controlling each other, and they have excellent financial results that you have talked about, and I think everyone will confirm that. Such a question, the Minister said that the local government unanimously supported these changes, with such a big applause. I would like to hear from the Minister what comments the local government has made to this bill. And one more question. You mentioned that future presidents are people who have experience. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the local government, but also scientists, so very serious people with a particular acquis. Are you planning to increase their salary? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u408	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The extension of the responsibilities of regional accounting chambers should lead to an increase in the remuneration of auditors. Is it in the plans of this government? That's one thing. Secondly, I wanted to ask you about another politicization of state institutions. Most of the current apolitical presidents of RIO We're running out of terms. The new ones, according to the good change, will be selected by competition, but in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. The composition of the competition committee ensures that the positions of the presidents of the regional financial chambers are taken by political officers. You will introduce a new order of law to limit your cadence, and you will be harassing and alerting the cheating authorities. Is that what this bill is about? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u410	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill introduces practically unlimited possibilities for supervisory decisions of the President of the Council of Ministers. Why, in addition to the lack of the possibility to adopt a multiannual financial forecast, are there specific cases in which the President of the Council of Ministers can apply a supervisory decision and has been left broadly understood to fail to perform public tasks within a period of 6 months? Is this a constitutional procedure? What is the aim of centralising the appointment of the presidents of the Regional Financial Chambers? This record seems to conflict with the constitutional principle of subsidiarity and leads to a suspicion of political control of the effectiveness of the RIO . The government draft law amending the Regional Financial Chambers Act significantly increases the control area of regional Financial Chambers, as well as the reporting obligations, while this proposal does not involve increasing the funding and staff resources of the Chambers, which may, as a result, weaken the control capacity of the RIO. These are the conclusions of the 2015 NIK. They point to the lack of sufficient financial and personal resources in the RIO, enabling the effective exercise of its control powers. Therefore, it would not be appropriate to increase RIO funding when introducing further obligations and a change in human resources policy, what would allow for the proper fulfilment of the control powers of the chambers? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u412	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why has some of the technical regulations been moved from the regulation to the law? Such a solution will result in a lack of flexibility in determining the control arrangements for inspectors. An amendment to the law will be necessary for any amendment. Why is it that no analysis of the financial situation of the entire local government sector is included in the explanatory memorandum? There is only one example that is not representative. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u414	Thank you very much. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The crowning argument of PiS for changes in regional financial chambers is the debt of local governments. That's what we read in the explanatory memorandum. What is local government debt? Less than PLN 70 billion. And how much did the government of PiS owe Poland? In 2016 alone, 95 billion. That's more than the debt of all local governments combined. So the justification for the bill is lying, like everything you do. Your true intention is to subdue the ruling party of another institution, or actually local governments. You hate everything that's independent of the PiS. You hate independent courts, accounting chambers, you hate local governments, you're just afraid of them. You can't get over the fact that there's something beyond your control, and you identify with central authority. And you'd probably choke on that power eventually, once you've put everything that's possible under your control, and everything that's possible will depend on the ruling party. But you know what happens then? You're gonna lose the election. I don't know how you don't think about it. [[Applause]] [[Mr Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u416	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u417	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the new records of the project, we read about changes in the election of the President of the Chamber. He will now be elected by the President of the Council of Ministers, after the competition, of course. The Minister described this as a new, impartial procedure. On the other hand, in the justification of this project, it is very strongly emphasised that the transfer of the competence to hold a competition for the President of a mixed chamber outside the structure of the Chamber will allow the choice of the best candidate for President to be impartial, independent and mutually dependent. Ladies and gentlemen! You forgot to strongly emphasize in this statement the obvious fact that in the competition committee the majority will be representatives of the government administration and they will be the ones who will select more people from your party award. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u418	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u419	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The overarching objective of the project raised by the government is, as I said, to counteract the phenomenon of over-indebtedness of local government units. And unfortunately, we already know that there is no coverage in reality, because at this moment, so far they are such occasional cases. In the justification of the project, actually one municipality is mentioned several times: the municipality of Ostrowice. However, as the Supreme Audit Chamber has shown, the situation in this municipality was caused by the somewhat late reaction of the competent regional Audit Chamber with regard to the provisions in force so far, i.e. the powers already in place. My question is prosaic. Minister, how many municipalities or local government units are there that have exceeded the existing law on debt under the Public Finance Act? [[Applause]] [[That's right, that's a very good question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u420	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u421	High Izbo! Minister! Another staff law is that having the presidents of regional chambers under the finger, in fact, have a local government under the shoe. She's here for this. And this quickly, unfortunately quickly, because, as I know, in 12 voivodships - please confirm - there is a state of suspension. That's where the competitions are going to be. Hurry, then. The municipality Ostrowice listed here, this fig leaf of changes. There is indeed one parallel, Minister: the state of the finances of the regional financial chambers. I hope to see your ministry, yours, when we are at the meeting of the Committee on State Control to decide on the 2017 budget, I hope that then you will lean on these chambers with the same care, so that this misery will finally end there. Think about the regionality of the chambers of account. What's left of regionality? Absolutely nothing, the region has no influence on her. Is this an impartial choice, Minister, 4:1? Four government representatives and one representative of the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission? Jokes. You can't do that. You have to measure words. I'm not gonna talk about an interpretation of a gross violation of duty, which is one big joke, because it's really a joke. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the discretion of the President of the Council of Ministers to dismiss the President who is still under the finger. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u422	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Currently, regional clearing houses are independent bodies. In their work they are based solely on the substantive assessment of the local government units controlled. The proposed changes, which go so far in the politicisation of these bodies, are very worrying and even alarming. The introduction of a supervisory decision on immediate enforceability is nothing more than a judgment, an irrevocable decision, despite the prosthesis that we are trying to convince us of the right to lodge a complaint when everything is already swept away, as is apparent from the text of the Act. It's fiction. No one's gonna fall for it. What's the status of local communities? Why is the explanatory memorandum completely omitted from the comments and conclusions of the public consultation? What was the position of the Association of Polish Cities, the Association of Rural Cities of Poland and other local authorities? I would very much ask that these opinions be delivered to us before the second reading. Why does law and justice disregard self-government, their hard work, not respect this work? Why? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u424	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 is the return on the extension of the RIO to a legal person, i.e. a local legal person. You define these entities: individually or collectively, directly or indirectly, they have an impact, in particular through. In other words, in addition to the elements mentioned in the Act, you are still pointing to elements which directly or indirectly affect. Why don't you define what the Ministry meant by that? It's one question. Second question. Indeed, you are significantly expanding the catalogue of RIO controlled entities, but not only entities, as well as the scope of RIO controls, including. taxes and charges. This means that all fees set by local government units will now be verified. Resolutions will be controlled by the Regional Audit Chamber. There should be an increase in staffing in regional accounting chambers, both subjectively and in this increase in the scope of duties, while in the explanatory memorandum of the Act you indicate that you do not provide for any increase in the finances for these tasks. It's completely incomprehensible. Why this way? Minister, you're proud of the consultation report here that these consultations were model. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even the report is not modelled because it does not contain information which proposals have been adopted...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u426	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u427	...which have been rejected, but I understand that this government simply doesn't lead...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u428	Thank you very much. Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u429	...social consultation... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and he doesn't know what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u430	Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What are the real intentions of this RIO Act? I would understand if you wanted to sort out the subsidiaries of the regional financial chambers that would be subject to, for example. The Ministry of Finance, with which they have much more in common than the Ministry of Administration. Is this about another staff and the appointment of a loyal and controllable president? Is loyalty rewarded by serving for an indefinite period rather than two terms, as has been the case so far? By the way, where's your logic? In local governments, you want to introduce a term of office, and in regional chambers of account, you eliminate it. In the case of non-steerable CEOs, you are given the opportunity to dismiss the President of RIO in connection with gross failure to carry out business duties. I would add that, indeed, the issue of the remuneration of controllers leaves much to be desired. I could say here, just for the audit raises, not for the introduction of the staff. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u432	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u433	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I'll talk about one thing, quite detailed, but characteristic. You are changing the wording of the article. 2 (2) 1, specifying that the minister's supervision is subject to the administrative activities of the chambers. That's the right detail. If supervision is to be carried out on an intra-organisational basis, the budgetary management of the clearing house concerned, which comes entirely from the State budget, why should this intra-organisational activity be controlled only on the basis of the legality criterion? Why is exclusion because of the criterion of reliability, economy and purpose? This is incomprehensible. Let me remind you that regional clearing houses are not local government units. Therefore, regional clearing houses cannot be excluded because of the criteria that are applied to local governments. Here, this exclusion is not justified. I call on the Minister's supervision of the internal activities of the regional financial chambers to be the supervision covering all four criteria of control, namely legality, economy, reliability and purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u434	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u435	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the impression that this project, Mr. Marshal, is not fully refined, because, as long as the current system of election of the President is anachronistic, in order not to even say that he is sick, there is no consistency about colleagues. And now the question is whether you would be open to introducing the term of office of the members of the colleges to tie closely the functions of the president to the colleges, so that the members of the colleges would be elected by the president with the approval of regional, municipal and district governments. Here is this element of participation also of local authorities. On the other hand, the term of office, six years' term of office, is the factor that makes the members of the colleges aware that these are not lifelong jobs, because today, in the current system, the President is a hostage to the colleges. What's more, the president can't do anything. If he has a college member who obviously, let's assume he's breaking the law or having any problems with alcoholism, he has no right to do anything to him. He's helpless as president. So the president is really a hostage to the college, and here he's helpless. The question is, isn't it worth making this real, really tidy and something solid from start to finish? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u436	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u437	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to the votes of the opposition today, it seems that this law only concerns the change of the President and mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the municipality of Ostrowice is a special accident at work in a very well-functioning system. [[It is.]] There's a finance bill, there's a RIO that has all the tools. So if the RIO enforces these rules well, why do we have an example of Ostrowice in debt of 400% with such a well-functioning system? ? How is it possible that such a drastic debt, which means, is allowed, I will remind you that it is at all appropriate to consider whether this municipality is able to continue or whether it should be resolved? Who should pay off this debt: the municipalities or the state budget? How could she have been in debt with the parabanks and the RIO? couldn't, wouldn't, couldn't react, didn't have the tools to react? How long did it take to introduce the commission board, for which the residents were begging for all the tasks that the local government has in its competence? So maybe it's not that good? Specific questions. How many municipalities in Poland outside Ostrowice are over-indebted? How many people are about to face such dramatic circumstances as these people in my district? How many municipalities in Poland have a repair program in place and still in debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u438	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have another example of the bill presented by the current rulers, which in fact tries to eliminate the remnants of self-government, independence and unhappiness of organizations and local governments in Poland in relation to the PiS. If we have such a situation today that the PiS has no impact on some area of social life, it will change the law in such a way as to subdue it. How is it possible in the state of law, which we still believe is that an example of one ill-functioning hospital in Poland is a pretext for preparing a law on a network of hospitals which eliminates about 200 hospitals that are well-functioning, and an example of one municipality that has over-indebted itself, is an excuse to prepare such a law which in fact makes regional accounting chambers incompetent and will cause them to be controlled manually, and not by anyone else, but directly by the Prime Minister of the Polish Government? It makes a kind of mockery. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question, Minister, so specific. How many local governments in Poland have responded positively in the consultation on [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill? We would like to know all these opinions. I have a request that they be written to me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u440	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Sebastian Chwałk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna try to answer most of the serious questions, and I'm not gonna answer the political questions because that's not my role. [[The bill is political, Minister.]] This is your assessment, completely unsubstantiated, subjective. [[We're all wrong here in this room.]] It's the role of the opposition to behave like this. We'll take that as a yes. One of the first questions concerned whether there would be increased costs for the operation of the regional financial chambers by increasing their responsibilities. We do not plan to increase these costs next year. Within the framework of the project's agreement with the representatives of the regional financial chambers, we have concluded that this will not lead to an increase in expenditure on this subject. The next issue concerned the composition of the competition committee. The composition of the competition committee in our assessment allows all interested parties to participate in it. It is not surprising that most of them do not have representatives of controlled bodies. There is nowhere, in any control body, that the composition of this body or, as in this case, the appointment of the President of the Regional Audit Chamber is decided by the institutions that will be controlled by it. It should also be noted that the President of the Regional Audit Chamber plays the role of the supervisory authority in the operation of the Chamber itself, in the division of work, in human and organisational matters. It should be borne in mind that control decisions are taken and audits are carried out by colleges of regional financial chambers. Consequently, the appointment of the President, who merely manages them, does not least affect the way the College adjudicates. The procedure for the election of the President of the Regional Audit Chamber in Kielce is an example that forced the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to react and to introduce a new solution. For the past two years, we have had a situation in which the President of this Chamber has not been elected because the competitions have already been cancelled twice because of both formal errors and, as a minimum, unclear criteria. The recently cancelled competition had a lot of legal disadvantages. I would like to quote, for example, that the questions that were asked by the members of the competition committee from the centre of their colleague were prepared on the basis of the outdated legal status for many months only that, so to speak, this candidate was responding to the outdated legal status, and the others who were prepared on the basis of the new rules, unfortunately did not pass according to the committee. Of course, another charge concerning this particular competition also consisted in the fact that it was not created, among others. the new competition composition according to the Act, only once again to the competition, has chosen... [[Voice from the room: We didn't talk about it.]] ...the previous composition, as well as the questioning of candidates, did not include provisions on the functioning of regional accounting chambers, and this is a statutory obligation as to the scope of these questions. This shows how it is internally decided who will be the President of the Regional Audit Chamber after the end of the predecessor's term of office. Therefore, it seems very appropriate - and I think it will show the future - to move the decision and location of the competition outside the Chamber itself, which will fix this situation. As regards the increases, because the question has been raised because the regional audit chambers, employees, collegiates, staff, extra-taxes have quite low salaries, I would just like to remind you from the history of the last few years that the State Audit Committee, chaired by Minister Mariusz Błaszczak in the previous term, has repeatedly applied for increases for regional accounting chambers. This has even been successful several times, and thanks to this interference, the regional clearing houses even received increases last year, which are already being paid at a new level of remuneration. If possible, regulations will take place in the following years. We are aware that wages are not too high and that the high qualifications that are needed to occupy positions may be useful elsewhere, in places that are better paid. But this basically applies to every field of functioning of the state after eight years of the governments of our predecessors. So I think that in the next few years we will have the opportunity to improve this situation as well. Here, too, this question was often asked about the appointment of a president, who decides. It is still important to bear in mind that the collegiates, the college in accordance with the Constitution, decide jointly and not by the President himself. The President is such a body, such as the body that directs only the work, possibly prioritizes and supervises the pace of carrying out tasks, because we sometimes have problems with that. What else would I want you to... [[You haven't said anything yet.]] Oh, control issues. With regard to the open catalogue mentioned by the honourable Member that we have an open catalogue and the transfer from the regulation to legal matters, this is, among other things, the case. from the recommendation of the Government's Legislative Centre on the principles which assume that this strictly precise form of control should, however, be included in the Act and not in the lower order. The question was, how many local governments we have that are over-indebted. This one example, said Ostrowice, is an exception in the sea of wonderfully functioning local governments. According to the data - and here I encourage all of you to read the report on the activities of regional financial chambers in the implementation of the budget by local government units, the last number is for 2015, most of the information is in this interesting publication - according to this publication 105 local governments exceeded six percent of the debt threshold. [[What's the percentage?]] There was also a question about... [[Voice from the room: There's no threshold anymore...]] But in 2005 there was, at the moment, no new document, because it is lately issued. [[You're working on the 2005 data?]] 2015 [[It didn't apply anymore.]] The regional chambers do not yet have more recent data, so it will be de facto possible to refer to them after analysing the aggregated information. He'll probably show up soon. [[The Public Finance Act, read it.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no longer this threshold...]] That's right, but I'm saying that this threshold in 2015 showed how many municipalities there were at the time. We don't have today's data because it hasn't been published yet. [[For how many municipalities. Remind me how many municipalities there are, Minister.]] Wait a minute. The competition committee - that's what I mentioned. Financing, financial support for regional financial chambers - I have already mentioned that we will be considering this. But so far the tasks and new tasks will be carried out as part of the current funding. Here, too, there was such a charge on the part of the honourable Member that we are eliminating the term of office. No, there are still two terms for this president, the presidents of the regional financial chambers, after six years, as it was, we're not changing anything here. And also the rules of control of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration in regional accounting chambers. We have clarified these records for a simple reason: there was such an illusory, such a belief that the MSWiA essentially controls the entire functioning of the regional financial chambers. This is not the case - only in terms of administrative functioning de facto, no more influence on decisions, on decisions issued by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration has nor will it have. The term of office of the collegiates - this is what the Member mentioned. We didn't actually work on this subject, it wasn't, among other things. the component of our project, nor was it reported by the regional audit chambers, nor was it based on the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which was also the basis for the preparation of these solutions. It must be borne in mind that most of the provisions, most of the proposals that have been included in this amendment in the scope of extending the controls, in terms of the functioning itself and the elements that should be controlled - we are talking about companies that will at the moment be controlled as part of new solutions - fell from the regional accounting chambers in the report that they prepared for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. The Regional Audit Chambers claimed this kind of competence, even on the basis of the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber mentioned earlier by me, which indicated that the Regional Audit Chambers did not have sufficient competence to control the finances of local governments. Self-governments, of course, work very well in a large majority, and no one questions that. Local government solutions, concerning local government in Poland, can of course be shown abroad as our export goods, which we also do on every occasion. They were asked to agree on how it was agreed. The Joint Committee of the Government and the Local Government shall be empowered on behalf of the local authorities to consult each government project. In the framework of these consultations, we discussed these solutions during the two plenary meetings of the Joint Government Committee and perhaps on three, yes, at the three meetings of the teams within the Joint Committee. They have been developed de facto in the basis of comments from both the local government and the regional financial chambers. The result of this work was de facto this project. The committee's opinion was positive, as the Member mentioned. I think the transcript of the committee meeting will show what the reservation was really about. The reservation concerned the proportion in committee, not that it would be a different solution at all, not within the regional financial chambers, but the election of the governors would be out of place. We talked about whether the government should have two representatives or one. Because the proposal remained for a joint committee representative to be one, the local authorities had this doubt. And this is reflected in the transcript of the meeting, in the recording of the joint committee meeting. I think most of the elements have been explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u442	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 32 hrs. 18 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and some other laws (print No 1424). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment of Mr Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms regulates the cultivation of genetically modified crops in particular to the following extent: notification to the competent Polish authorities of GMO crops and the notification of their location in accordance with Part C of Directive 2001/18 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms - the authority of the act provided for in this act is the Minister of the Environment; the way in which information on the location of GMO crops is made public in the so-called. the GMO crop register - it is also maintained by the Ministry of the Environment; crop control regarding the detection of genetic modification - and here the control body according to the provisions of the Act is the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection. The aim of the Act is to increase the level of safety of human health and the environment by establishing mechanisms for effective control and possible reduction of GMO crops, complementing the implementation of the provisions of Directive 2001/18 of the European Parliament and of the Council and implementing the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C-78/13, which concerned the absence of provisions governing the notification and registration of GMO crops and the notification of them to the public in the Polish legal order. At present, there is no cultivation of GMOs in Poland, and this is possible because in March 2015 a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2015/412 has entered into force, which amended the original Directive 2001/18 to allow Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in their territory. And this new legislation gives Member States the freedom to decide whether they want to grow GMOs in their territory without changing the risk assessment procedure provided for in the EU GMO authorisation system or not. The Republic of Poland took advantage of the possibility offered by the revision of this Directive and in September 2015 it announced its intention to exclude its territory from the cultivation of eight types of modified maize which are currently authorised for cultivation in the European Union. The possible cultivation of GMOs, according to this amendment of the Act, will require the establishment of a GMO cultivation zone by the farmer in which the cultivation can be carried out. The zone may be established after obtaining an authorisation issued by the Minister responsible for the environment - issued again after consulting the Minister responsible for Agriculture and the opinion of the municipality council where the crop is planned. An important element of the evaluation of the proposal will be its potential impact on environmental safety and pollinating insects, in particular bees, of course. Prior to the creation of the zone, it will also be necessary to obtain written statements from owners and users of perpetual real estate, as well as beekeepers or beekeepers' associations whose real estate or apiaries are located up to 3 km from the agricultural land where the cultivation of GMOs is planned, that they do not object to the intention to establish such a zone. Control of GMO crops is a task that has not yet been carried out in Poland on such a large scale. The competent authority carrying out the checks shall be the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. This inspection shall have experience in carrying out checks on the use of seed in the detection of genetically modified varieties, inter alia. corn. Crop control will include field control in 16 voivodships, substantive supervision and coordination of tasks in voivodships, including proceedings on administrative decisions, i.e. imposition of fines. The testing will be carried out at the Central Laboratory of the Central Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspectorate in Toruń. The entire control tasks will be supervised by the Chief Plant Protection and Seed Inspector. The control will be subject to cultivation on the basis of a possible authorisation to establish a GMO cultivation zone as well as other crops which are reasonably suspected to be GMO crops. The checks will cover both documents, e.g. verification of evidence of purchase of seed and sampling directly from the field. The Act also provides for criminal sanctions, namely the cultivation of GMOs without the required authorisation or in breach of the conditions and methods laid down in the authorisation to establish a GMO cultivation zone will be punishable by an administrative penalty of 10 000. PLN up to 30,000. PLN for each hectare of cultivation started. The same monetary penalty will apply to those who farm non-commercial GMOs for cultivation. At present, in the current state of law, when there is a ban on cultivation of GMOs in Poland, this prohibition means that even after the introduction of the abovementioned. products will not be allowed to be placed on the market by the relevant EU regulations in Poland. Any application for the establishment of an area designated for cultivation of GMOs for these products will not be considered and no authorisation will be granted for the establishment of a zone. Similarly, where an application for authorisation for the establishment of a GMO cultivation zone will concern GMO plants which have not yet been placed on the market for cultivation in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u444	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws contained in print No 1424. High Seym! The draft law submitted by the Government is linked to the need to introduce into the Polish legal area Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which states that Poland has failed to comply with its obligations under that Directive. The provisions of the Act are intended to clearly protect the territory of the country from uncontrolled introduction of GMO crops and work on GMMs for experimental and research purposes and to fully inform the public of such possible actions. Inclusion in the process of issuing local authorities' opinions, which will be binding opinions for the authority, i.e. for the competent Ministry which gives consent to the establishment of GMO and GMM sites and plants, this condition is fulfilled. The bill also aims to protect the environment against quantitative disturbances of parasitic and predatory species. Such changes in parasite ratio - a predator can have a negative impact on the environment. The project's main provisions are the definitions of plants and genetically modified crops and the consent process for the creation of sites and plants for possible experimental work related to GMOs and GMM, as well as the rigors related to these entities. A very important provision in the project is the refusal to authorise the establishment of a GMO zone in the event of a negative opinion issued by the municipality. Control provisions for voivodship environmental and seed inspectors, as well as penalties for infringements of the proposed law, appear to be sufficient. It is justified to include administrative fines in the area. The project shall take into account the financial implications of the implementation of the solutions in a 10-year perspective. It was also sent to 47 food safety organisations, associations and associations for consultation. Another important provision in the project is the statement in the article. 49a that the territory of the Republic of Poland is established by a GMO-free zone. After a thorough examination of the project, bearing in mind that we are under a certain priority of Directive 2001/18 of the European Parliament and of the Council and the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, as well as the conviction that the draft law fulfils the obligation to inform the public and to properly control possible areas where GMO cultivation can be carried out, and GMM plants, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law contained in print No 1424. Personally, I hope that such zones will never rise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u446	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! All these documents are documents concerning only a few amendments to the GMO Act. But I am very pleased and very pleased to present the position of the Platform Club in relation to the 1424 printing we are discussing. The government bill amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms is a supplement to the implementation into the Polish legal order of Directive 18, which tells us everything about how, when, under what conditions we should check... In general, the GMO that is produced around us and is traded, in cultivation and in trade. In particular, we are to implement the article into the legal order. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 lit. b, because this amendment concerns precisely this, i.e. the issue of the GMO crop register, information for the public on GMO crops. In short, it is, the Minister knows that, the execution of judgment No 487/13. Here begins an endless story of the lie, hypocrisy and cynicism of the PiS, especially cynicism, lie and hypocrisy of Mr Szyszko. I am very surprised that Minister Szyszko is not here today. The Minister is not responsible for this. There are not all those who over the last eight years have spoken the most about the fact that Poland should be free from GMOs and what bad law we are creating. Mr. Szyszko, Mr. Fark, Mr. Ardanowski is not here. They're not in this room. Why? Maybe they're ashamed. This is where the story begins - all the time. Mr Szyszko, now Minister for the Environment, presents this project, and this project is nothing more than a project that we presented already in 2014. Then the Minister claimed that it was bringing GMOs to Poland through the back door, that it was murder, genocide. There were many other words. I'll cut to the chase. What happened to Mr.Szyszko - using his favorite quote here very often - suddenly he can read, especially he can read with an understanding of the EU directive? Moreover, he can read the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union with understanding. He can read, so he's making an amendment. What happened that as a Member he could not read with understanding, and as a Minister he already mastered this reading with understanding? I recommend reading the transcripts from the environmental committee of the last term. It is full of heroic defenses of Poland against GMOs, full of accusations and lies. Commission meeting, 22 July 2014 at 3 p.m. 19.16 - Speaking of what attitude towards enforcement, what kind of punishment did Minister Szyszko have now, and what kind of punishment did he have at the time, as a Member: Did the Union order and threaten the penalty? Is there a political commission? The Union scared the crap out of you, huh? Of course, we don't know. What, for what, for what? It's an old Union lock. What's the matter with this lock-pick that caused Mr. Szyszko to introduce us to an amendment? Notabene's exactly the same one he knocked down that time. He's putting in a ledger. Moreover, it also introduces the possibility of cultivation. I'm gonna use the Professor's language here, my favorite. What is so remarkable, unique in the world, that a change can be made suddenly, with a register being made and GMO cultivation zones still being created? What happened, Professor? Did you eat something, or did you drink something? What happened? Mr. The professor won't answer me because he's just gone. At that time, this amendment which we presented - which Mr Szyszko did not call an amendment, but a new law introducing the rear door of GMOs - was the opening of Poland's doors to the attack of corporations and GMOs and the beginning of genocide and destruction of Polish agriculture. Now it is an amendment that is required and probably long-awaited, as I know the basics of the translation, why it appeared. Mr. Szyszko often also uses the terms "open system," "closed system," in an open system, in a closed system. It differentiates the terms of rotation by mixing in them. The outsider doesn't know what's going on. What kind of arrangement has the Member created to change his mind and from a GMO-closed system to open to GMOs? What a deal, I'm asking. He often uses it, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister Szyszko's words about uniqueness, biodiversity and many experts and intelligents are often used.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u448	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u449	What happened to them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u450	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms. This project is a consequence of the obligation to supplement the implementation into the Polish order of the 2001 directive on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms. As of 1 May 2004, almost 13 years ago, Poland should regulate and inform the public of the issues arising from the Directive regarding the notification and registration of GMO crops. Despite the efforts made in previous years to regulate the problem, the problem has not yet been resolved. I would like to remind you that during the 6th term of the Sejm, work was ongoing on the adoption of the law on genetically modified organisms by the government. The extraordinary subcommittee, whose work was led by the current Minister Szyszko, presented on 20 January 2011 a report on the draft law, which contained two key provisions: Article. 4 it has been concluded that the placing on the market of a genetically modified organism is prohibited and Article 4 thereof. 5 that the cultivation of genetically modified plants is prohibited. The question therefore arises as to why Mr Szyszko's position was diametrically changed a few years ago as chairman of the subcommittee was a keen supporter of the total ban on GMO cultivation in Poland, and is now presenting a project allowing GMO cultivation in every municipality. The authorisation for cultivation of GMOs in the territory of the Republic of Poland poses a serious risk to conventional crops, which is not mentioned at all in the justification of the project. The cases of contamination by genetically modified organisms documented in the literature are numerous. The U.S. Ministry of Agriculture reported that modified grass spreads 3.8 km away from the site of cultivation, and according to research carried out by the Central Science Laboratory in England, rape pollen travels 26 km away. During the 2010 conference, the U.S. economic society reported that wildly growing transgenic rape was found in the United States. Scientists have admitted that there is an uncontrollable spread of GMO plants on a large scale in the United States. Previously genetically modified plants were found in Canada, Japan and the United Kingdom. According to the 2006 GreenWatch and Greenpeace International report, there have been cases of illegal GMO cultivation, release into the environment and mixing with unmodified plants, including wild plants, in 39 countries. Since other countries have negative experiences and despite very good surveillance mechanisms cannot control the release of GMOs into the environment, it would be naive to think that in Poland we will avoid similar contamination. As Poland, we can boast of good quality food for which we do not use hectolitres of plant protection products. With these advantages we should make a key element in promoting our food outside Poland. We cannot put our farmers at risk of accidental contamination resulting in their crops and income. We cannot allow today's thriving organic food market to be destroyed. Mr Marshal, I kindly ask you to refer the project to the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, because the scope of this law is inherently linked to agriculture and its further existence as we know it today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u452	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a position on printing No. 1424, a government bill amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and some other laws. The proposed amendment is the result of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union C 478/13, whose implementation was based on the establishment of a statutory obligation to notify the competent Polish authorities of the location of GMO crops in accordance with Directive 18 on the deliberate release into the environment of modified organisms. In addition, as is apparent from the judgment, it was necessary to establish a register of the location of these crops and to make publicly available the location of GMO crops. Strong resistance to genetically modified plants remains in the European Union. Poland belongs to Member States that do not agree to the cultivation of such plants on their territory. The amendment is correct, although in practice it does not make significant changes for consumers in Poland. As early as January 2013, Poland introduced a ban on cultivation of GMOs authorised in the European Union, namely MON 810 maize and Amflora potato, under the Government Regulation, justifying this decision that genetically modified plants cannot be grown without the risk of contamination of natural varieties. The next step with a far greater impact on the life of consumers, but also the breeders, is to prohibit the production, placing on the market and use in animal feed of GMOs containing shoots of genetically modified oil plants which are expected to enter into force in 2019. The government has recently committed itself to decisive measures to support the denial of GMO feed from the home market and to strengthen the commodity production of the domestic protein product. At what stage are these activities? In order to complete the regulations aimed at eliminating GMO cultivation in Poland, it is necessary to implement the safety clause with Article. 23 Directive 2001/18, which allows bans on different types of GMOs rather than collective bans. She did so, for example. Austria, which, pursuant to the above mentioned paragraph, the clause introduced a ban on the marketing of transgenic maize MON 810 seed material, which is the only variety authorised for cultivation in the European Union. According to Art. Article 49a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) 3 The establishment of a zone designated for cultivation of GMOs will require the fulfilment of many difficult conditions, as well as the authorisation of the Minister responsible for the environment and the consent of the Minister for Agriculture and the municipality in which the cultivation of GMOs is planned. In practice, legal cultivation of GMOs will not be viable. The project contains minor inaccuracies. It has not been specified on what basis the documentation on the impact on environmental safety to be provided by a farmer wishing to start cultivation of GMOs is to be based on. Long-term studies on the effects of GMO introduction on the environment and the food chain are still lacking. There is also no consensus among scientists on the harm done to genetically modified plants themselves. However, it has been proven that GMO cultivation leads to the loss of biodiversity and increases the use of chemical plant protection products, thereby endangering traditional and organic crops. The advantage of Polish agriculture is biodiversity, very high biological and health quality of products, high export potential, therefore it is necessary to ensure the competitive position of Polish food in the European Union. At the same time, I must stress that we do not oppose the use of GMOs in pharmacy. In view of the above, the Posel Club Modern is ready to support the proposed project. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u454	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u455	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today's discussion is a special day, because it turns out that one of the slogans that we have been feeding for the past 8 years, or perhaps even in the longer term, is the slogan that says that the PiS is against genetically modified plants, genetically modified food, is ruined. Why? This is what Mrs Dorota Niedziela also said, as we have heard in recent years. When anything was said about genetically modified plants in Poland, whether on the occasion of work on the Seed Act or in connection with the Law on Feed, there was still a charge that the coalition of that time by the back door, or by opening the door widely, introduces genetically modified plants into Poland, thus endangering the health, safety and even life of our country's citizens. In fact, there are no studies that would confirm the harmful effects of plants and genetically modified food on human health, but let us assume that this food is bad, inappropriate and should not exist in Poland. All these slogans have proved false today, because from the Minister's mouth we have just heard that so far in Poland such plants could not be grown and have not been grown, we have not had the opportunity to grow such crops. Very good. The Minister has thus confirmed our several years of efforts to avoid such crops in Poland and at the same time undermined the credibility of those words which Mr Szyszko and Mr Szyszko spoke here for years. Well, using this language, it's worth telling what this project is today. I'm not speaking my language right now, I'm speaking my PiS. This project is a wide opening of the door for cultivation of genetically modified plants in Poland, because it does not create a GMO-free zone from Poland, it only says that these plants can be grown in Poland subject to authorisation by the Minister of the Environment. I am one of those who have limited confidence in this minister of the environment, and in general I believe that it is not the minister who should decide this, but the High House. And that's one myth, one lie of the PiS that's been exposed. The second was said by saying that Poland had been subjected to action, was under the authority of the European Commission and had to prepare this project. So what about the slogan that we will not bow down to the European Union, we will not negotiate on our knees? Today, this project, this bill, again speaking the language of PiS, but you bend and fall completely on your knees. And to be serious, it is good that the reason has come back, and it is good that we respect those provisions which are the provisions of the European Commission, and we create the conditions for us to refuse the cultivation of genetically modified plants in Poland, because such methods need to be limited, not a turbulent discussion in the Parliament hall or accusing everyone else of the worst things. By the way, it is also worth asking the absent minister Jan Szyszko, what happened to the project which recommended the High House on 20 December 2012 as a project of the PiS related to the recommendations of the European Commission and which was supposed to say: Poland free of GMOs, at the end was an exclamation point, and said that Law and Justice would submit a draft law on organisms which would consider Poland as a whole free from cultivation, from the possibility of cultivation of genetically modified plants. Minister Szyszko even gave his mobile phone number in this message. Five years have passed since then, more than five years or nearly five years, and today we have a project which in the original version was strongly criticised by Minister Szyszko. The others who are not really here today - unfortunately, it is only right to feel sorry for the Member who had to recommend this project on behalf of the PiS Club, he is not guilty here, because then he did not have the opportunity to participate in these debates - it is worth asking what happened to those slogans that were preached in the past years. We know that clearly today. These slogans were proclaimed only to create negative opinions in society, to convince the public that someone is the only defender of the right idea, created by himself, and finally to win the election. After winning these elections, it turns out that it was all an ideology created for political needs. That's it, period. The Polish People's Party is, of course, in favour of proceding this project, but we believe that the provisions that limit the possibility of cultivation of genetically modified vegetation in Poland are insufficient. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u456	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Are there anyone else willing to ask the question? If they are, please sign up. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Maciej Masłowski. Because we're behind schedule, it's one minute to ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u457	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! According to Art. Article 49a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) In his speech at the beginning, the Minister said that the PIORiN would be the institution, and I would ask very much for a detailed answer to the question according to which criteria this opinion will be prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u458	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Szyszko wrote Prime Minister Tusk a letter in 2012 in which he personally warned against the introduction of GMOs. The Minister has repeatedly declared the introduction of a total ban on GMO cultivation, Poland was to be a GMO-free country. Many of the speakers earlier, during that term of office, were said about this. Now the Ministry of the Environment itself has prepared a project which states that the territory of our country is a GMO-free zone, but subject to the creation of zones of these crops, it is therefore an obvious return to earlier declarations of Law and Justice. Let me just mention that the Member States of the European Union may ban GMO cultivation in their own Member States. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, why are you lying to your constituents? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u460	Mr Stefan Rometki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u461	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The project concerns the introduction of GMO crops in Poland. This time we're not talking about experimental crops, we have no idea. There are crops, so all crops together, led by commercial crops. I therefore ask you to answer the question whether it was not by accident Law and Justice, among others. by the mouth of Minister Szyszko, often declared an unconditional ban on GMO cultivation in Poland. You're breaking the electoral promises that keep you in power right now. It's outrageous. You lied to the people who voted for you. You should change the name... I'm not gonna exchange words here. There is no law and justice in your conduct. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u462	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am convinced that, in preparing this bill, you have looked at all the studies on the dangers of GMOs on this subject. One study says that genetically modified seeds will last 10 years in the ground. This is Swedish research. I would ask you to give some other examples of such extreme dangers associated with GMOs, e.g. which furthest distances in the flight of pollen have been taken into account or as far from the parent crop as possible have been found seeds or plants from genetically modified plants in the United States or in Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u464	Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u465	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's hard to refer to all the materials we have, maybe on the committee we'll move on to the rhetoric of this project. Of course, this project is good, this project obviously does not open the door to GMOs, it is not a project that allows cultivation and the register will not be complete, but empty as it was supposed to be in 2014, and it was only a technical matter of clarification for the European Union. But my question is... I may have already asked what had happened, but I also ask the question because on 20 December 2012 Minister Szyszko - Mrs Szyszko - presented a proposal for a large bill, a draft law on genetically modified organisms, which he waved at us all the time... and it is not there. He gave me a phone number to call; I don't know if this phone number is still valid. Why don't we call the minister and ask him where? [[♪ The bell ♪]] His project? Where's his project, not his amendment, his own project? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u466	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! GMO plants are several groups that share depending on whether they tolerate e.g. Glyphosate, whether they tolerate damage by insects or poison these insects and many, many others, but I would like to focus on this group, which is tolerant of glyphosate and thus may be relatively high doses of glyphosate. Many studies indicate that in addition to the plant itself, residues of glyphosate, present in significant quantities in these plants, are harmful - especially to the reproductive system, both animals and humans. I wanted to ask if there will also be residue testing in this respect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] those measures which are applied in excessive quantities in the case of GMOs. Thank you very much. Sorry, Marshal, for the extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u468	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u469	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Food products and feed in animal nutrition are harmful to animals and to humans. Today's draft law is the implementation of the judgment of 2 October 2014 of the Court of Justice of the European Union - the European Union, to which the Platform and the Modern taboons left and complained about the current Polish state. We simply have no choice but to comply with the recommendations of the Court's judgment. And I wanted to ask the Minister if there is any chance to end the vacathio legis of the 2006 feed law, whose article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 was to be introduced from 2008. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And in this bill, which we are proposing at the moment, are there appropriate safeguards to limit the amount of GM crops? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u470	Thank you. And Mr Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u471	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Two questions. The first question concerns knowledge of the prevalence of genetically modified crops not only in the European Union, not only in the United States, in North America, but worldwide. What's the direction? Are these crops coming, or are these crops decreasing? Do the countries in the world liberalize the rules on genetically modified crops, or are they closing for these crops? In this context, how will Poland appear, for example, in relation to the signing of CETA agreements, may TTIP in the future, with the United States, where we know that genetically modified crops are widespread? How will Poland survive in this competitive market resisting food, which is cheaper in cultivation? And second question: What will happen, already under this adopted law, if any entity fulfils all the conditions that are contained in this law in order to be able to grow genetically modified plants in Poland, and that is what it will ask for? What instrument will the Minister of the Environment have against it in order to legally refuse, after fulfilling [[♪ The bell ♪]] All the conditions, taking such a crop?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u472	Thank you, sir. Since the list of registered persons has been exhausted, please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, the main conservationist of nature of Mr Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I would like to say a few words about the project that Mrs Niedziela spoke about in 2014. It was a project that was processed by the previous government, and what's interesting is why this project was not implemented. He, ladies and gentlemen, was frozen at the stage of the KSE, did not enter the Sejm at all. As far as the project was concerned, there was only a laconic notification of the desire to grow GMOs, and on this basis it could simply be introduced, sown. The project did not contain any environmental or economic barriers to GMO cultivation. That was - that project - the introduction of GMOs through the back door to cultivation. This project we are talking about today, which is being examined by the High House today, allows under certain very strict conditions... I would very much ask Members who said that this project somehow through the back door lets GMOs into our territory, to read, to read thoroughly, to understand, art. 49a, that really will explain a lot. This also raises questions about environmental safety. There was a question about excessive amounts of pesticides and herbicides poured on GMO crops. Indeed, in the documents that a farmer who wishes to grow such crops will have to submit to the Ministry of the Environment, he will have to demonstrate the lack of influence of excessive amounts of these resources on living organisms which naturally occur in the environment or in this field. The definition of environmental safety clearly shows under which conditions these environmental safety principles are to be maintained to demonstrate that this cultivation does not have a negative impact on the state of the environment. Of course, there was also talk about the fact that we are supposed to ban and create zones and why we create zones. There is a possibility that GMOs may be grown in zones, but under certain conditions, once again, please read the article well. 49a, because the directive does not prohibit the cultivation of GMOs by law. The revision of the directive I was talking about gives the possibility for a Member State to come to the European Commission to allow the European Commission to prohibit the sowing of a given GMO product in a given country. And we have benefited from this, as of today, no GMO cultivation on the basis of these applications to the European Commission can be sent in Poland, and at the time this law enters into force, no proposal can be considered positively, because literally by our notification to the European Commission we have a ban on the cultivation of these authorised varieties of genetically modified maize. Back to the 2014 Act - there was such a situation that not only that this law, as I said, gave direct opportunities for cultivation of GMOs, it was just then that there was no amendment of Directive 2001/18 and the Member State could not ask the Commission to prohibit cultivation of genetically modified plants in the country, i.e. that law simply allowed, only the only problem was writing a really laconic notification of cultivation of GMOs. As far as cultivation is concerned, the number of GMO crops is at about the same level in Europe, and here is a rather interesting issue. We have a sentence in which Poland has been obliged to establish a register of GMO cultivation, which, as previously noted here, will now be an empty register. At the moment when the committee made its claims just about the fact that we were to enter a register, there was no cultivation of GMOs in Poland, and still there was a sentence which ordered Poland to keep this register. But now let's look at Spain. In Spain there are hundreds of thousands of crops of genetically modified maize, Spain still has no record and there is no judgment. The Commission doesn't colloquially pick on Spain. And I think that's it. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, If there were comments on the projects that Minister Szyszko had previously submitted, take a good look at the content of the projects in 2007 and 2012. This project here today presented to the High House is 80% The same as those two projects I'm talking about right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u474	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed draft law is a response to a complaint from the European Commission that Poland does not comply with the provisions of Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 March 2001 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms as regards the notification, registration and information to the public of GMO cultivation. The cultivation of GMOs will require the establishment of a zone designated for the cultivation of GMOs. This will require: authorisation issued by the Minister of the Environment, consent of the Minister of Agriculture, determination of the conditions for cultivation, no opposition of land owners located 3 km from the land on which the cultivation of GMOs is planned, but until now there is a ban on cultivation of genetically modified plant varieties in Poland, therefore they are not cultivated. My question, then, is whether the legal situation in this matter will in fact be relaxed. And the second question: Since these matters are being dealt with and in accordance with the project will be the National Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, is it not better to wait a few months for implementation in connection with the plan for the establishment of the State Food Safety Inspection, i.e. the merger of inspections?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u476	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws, contained in print No 1424, to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committees by 21 April 2017. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 140th anniversary of Bolesław Bięks' birth (prints 1401 and 1443). I ask Mr Robert Kołakowski to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I have the honour to present a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 140th anniversary of the birth of Bolesław Biadas, print No 1443. Bolesław Bięgas, or actually Bolesław Biębialski, was born on 29 March 1877 in a small village of Koziczyn near Ciechanow in a poor peasant family. Early orphaned, he spent his childhood in the countryside, shepherding cattle and sticking clay figurines. His artistic talent was initially noticed by the local priest. Aleksandra Rzewnicki, who with the financial support of the parishioners sent young Poles to the Warsaw sculptor Antoni Panasiuk. His next protector was the Ciechanian doctor and art patron Franciszek Rajkowski, who presented early attempts at sculpting his subject. Adam Krasiński from Opinogóra was the grandson of the poet Zygmunt Krasiński, and Alexander Świętochowsky. Thanks to the public subscription announced by Świętochowski, funds were collected so that the young artist could receive education at the Krakow School of Fine Arts, where he started his studies under the direction of Alfred Daun and Konstanty Laszczka. In 1901, he was removed from the university in the atmosphere of scandal for making a sculpture of the book of life, which violated the canons of art at that time. Foreign artistic criticism was more favorable to his works, as indicated by his excellent reviews during his participation in the X Exhibition of the Vienna Secession, which took place in 1901. In subsequent editions of this exhibition he participated in the following years. He also presented his sculptures in the Warsaw salon of Alexander Krywult, also in the gallery of the Society for the Encouragement of Fine Arts in Warsaw. Thanks to the scholarship of the Warsaw Association of Encouragements of Fine Arts, he went to Paris, where he stayed for the rest of his life. In Paris, he began to study at the high school of fine arts, but quickly abandoned it, he took up his own work financially supported by new patrons, baronosty of Henryk and Jadwiga Trüschelów. He quickly gained recognition in the circle of French symbolists, and his works were exhibited in numerous views of the Independent Salon, the Salon of the National Association of Fine Arts and the Autumn Salon. He died on September 30, 1954, and was buried in the cemetery of Polish emigration in Montmorency in the tomb of the Historical and Literary Society, whose member he became at the end of his life. Bolesław Bięgas, one of the most respected artists in Europe, is still very little known in Poland. His artistic achievements consist of sculptures, paintings, as well as 16 dramas, several lectures on art and novels and poems. Bolesław Bięgas is considered the leading representative of the symbolic and secessional direction not only in Polish, but also in European sculpture. He managed to preserve his individual form of work, which is still astonishing by its unique diversity and richness of subject matter. The fame brought the porter bust to Runas, and he was successful in taking on themes inspired by music and literature. Poles' sculptural work was subject to, among others. influences of Stanisław Przybyszewski's philosophy. Inspired by his works, he created allegorical sculptures that address the issues of human existence. At the same time he created sculptures of synthetic, geometrized form, subject to fascination with Prasłowian cuisine. One of the inspirations was the Worldhide. He created works about precursors e.g. The already mentioned book of life preceded the synthetic compositions of Xawery Dunikowski, while the works of the Earth, Love of Death, and the enchanted Palaces realized visions which only 20 years later were born in the imagination of surrealists. After World War I, the sculpture activity of the Poles weakened for the sake of painting. A series of dozens of paintings by war vampires from 1914 to 1918 draws attention from the rich art of painting. Painting started earlier, about 1900, initially inspired by Wyspiański's works. Later he developed his distinctive style in: a series of spherical portraits, in which human faces intersect with a grid of lines and planes divided by arcs and geometric shapes; in satirical political paintings, among others. Russian-Japanese War, Nero on Polish soil; also in a series of paintings depicting stylized mythological figures of titanide and titans with superhuman shapes and strength and in many other paintings. The author also wrote literary works, poems, which were maintained in the symbolic convention. He also wrote drama, as I mentioned. It is worth noting that Bolesław Bięgas enjoyed the recognition of the contemporary authorities of the art world. The Renaissance of his work has lasted since the 1970s. 20th century French and Polish art historians organize numerous exhibitions of symbolists, where painting and sculpting works of the Poles are presented. The paintings and sculptures of the Poles can be found, among others. in the Orsay Museum in Paris, the Museum of Fine Arts in Lyon, the Royal Museum of Fine Arts in Brussels, the Polish Museum in Chicago, the Museum of the Poles in Paris, the Museum of Mazowiecki in Płock, the National Museum in Warsaw and Poznan, and the Museum of the Mazowiecka Nobility in Ciechanów. In recent years the artist's family land has made efforts to commemorate this great artist. In the District Centre for Culture and Art. Maria Konopnicka in Ciechanów was opened the world's first gallery of Bolesław Bięgas, and on the facade of her building was exposed a mural inspired by the image of Bolesław Bięgas. Also in Warsaw the Foundation im. Bolesława Bięgas, thanks to which on 6 May 2015 in the capital was opened the largest permanent exhibition in our country of painting and sculpture of this outstanding Polish artist. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering the draft resolution at its meeting on 5 April this year, asks the High Sejm to adopt this draft resolution as follows: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 140th anniversary of the birth of Bolesław Bięgas. On 29 March 2017, the 140th anniversary of the birth of Bolesław Biegłas (in fact: Bolesław Biegnalski) - one of the most original Polish artists at the turn of the 19th and 20th century, a sculptor and symbolist painter, whose work continues to impress with its unique diversity and richness of subjects. Bolesław Bięgas (1877-1954), one of the most respected artists in Europe, is still very little known in Poland. His artistic achievements, which consist of sculptures, paintings, as well as 16 dramas and several lectures on art, did not finally reach the Vistula, and therefore the Runas did not exist in the national consciousness. There are several reasons for this: the artist settled permanently in Paris in 1901, criticizing his works in his homeland, death during communism, which was completely rejected by the Runas system, deciding to entrust his artistic legacy to Polish emigration in France. After 1989, the works of Bolesław Bięgas remained unknown in Poland, although in the world of his works they have been returning to art salons for half a century. The trial of time survived not only his symbolic sculptures of precursor qualities, differing from the fashionable contemporary art style, but also intriguing painting works, both unique symbolic compositions, full of hidden meanings and portraits, including a series of painting spherical portraits. His works can be seen in many museums, among others. in the Orsay Museum in Paris, the Museum of Fine Arts in Lyon, the National Museums in Warsaw, Gdansk, Poznań and in more and more private and Polish collections. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland honours the memory of Bolesław Biadas and praises his artistic achievements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u478	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Grzegorz Puda from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u479	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the resolution commemorating the 140th anniversary of Bolesław Biedhas' birth. Bolesław Biegnalski was born on 29 March 1877 in Koziczyn village near Ciechanów in a poor noble family. Even as a child, he was sticking clay figures and sculpting shepherd's sticks. In 1886, he had a painful experience of his father and younger brother's death, and his mother died four years later. Interestingly, Biędzyski's sculpture talent was noticed by the local parish priest, and thanks to his support he was able to learn lessons from Warsaw's sculptor Antoni Panasiuk. Bolesław fell ill because of ill treatment and returned home from Warsaw. In Ciechanów, a young sculptor saw Alexander Świętochowski, who was amazed by the work of an orphaned artist, and thus convinced him of the genius of the young artist. And that's when he changed his name to Runas for the young Biker so that he could promote it as an authentic product of folk culture. In September 1896, in Wendy's bookstore in Warsaw, Świętochowski organized the first exhibition of sculptures. Thanks to the support and help of his friends, Runas started his studies at the School of Fine Arts in Krakow. In his studies he began to achieve his first artistic success. In 1898 he received a bronze medal for the work of the Ganimeda kidnap, and a year later he exhibited seven sculptures in Krywult's living room. Thanks to his participation in the prestigious Secession Exhibition in Vienna, he became a member of the Exhibition and exhibited it several times more. In 1901 he presented his works in the Society of Fine Arts in Warsaw. For the sculpture of the book of life, Runas was removed from his studies in the atmosphere of scandal. He left for Paris, where he stayed for the rest of his life. He was a member of the Polish Historical and Literary Society in Paris. Under the influence of Stanisław Przybyszewski's philosophy, he created sculptures about the subject of the drama of human existence. For the stylistics of his works, dynamic forms with flaming outline and expressive deformed faces-masks are significant. The artist also wrote literary works, poems, novels, and dramatic works maintained in the symbolic convention. At Stanisław Wyspiański's suggestion, he also started painting. In the early '30s. In the 20th century, the figure of Runas began to fade into oblivion. The artist fell into solitude. The cultural achievements of Bolesław Runas all over the world still function today, and his works often [[♪ The bell ♪]] are more recognizable abroad than in Poland. In order to save the artist from oblivion, on 6 May 2015 in Warsaw the largest permanent exhibition of painting and sculpture of Bolesław Biedzas was opened, and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopted a resolution commemorating its creator. The Law and Justice Club supports the draft resolution and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u480	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna Białkowska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform, appreciating the work of Bolesław Biadas and the influence of his works on the shaping of culture and art, supports the resolution on commemorating the artist's 140th anniversary. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Bravo, Member!]] [[The voice from the hall: Grzegorz, yours was good, too.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u482	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Maciej Masłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Member. I see I've started a good trend of short and concise speeches, because that's the way it should be. Same here, ladies and gentlemen... [[Success has many fathers.]] Yes. ...the same resolution. Of course, the Kukiz15 club, when it comes to the resolution on commemorating the 140th anniversary of Bolesław Bięgas' birth, will vote in favour of it. That's how you say it. Thank you very much. Goodbye. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u484	And Mr Grzegorz Furga, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Club The modern one will also support the resolution in the 140th anniversary of the birthday of Bieghas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u486	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: A friend of mine...]] Okay. This is what Mr Bogusław Sonik wrote to the question, ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, Bolesław Runas is an artist who deserves this recognition. In particular, its sculptures have become increasingly sought after in antiquarian markets since the 1970s, and throughout Europe. The 140th anniversary is a good opportunity to remind him. He studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in Cracow and as this insubordinate artist he already showed his art in the Book of Life, so he flew out of this Academy of Fine Arts. But he didn't get offended, went on, went to Paris, where he created, lived, joined his life with this city. He created one of the most beautiful busts of the famous artist, also living in Paris, Boznańska. This prominent and leading representative of the symbolic and secession style is not known today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Poland, that is why it is an important initiative to remind about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u488	Thank you very much. Is Mr Kołakowski... I don't think there was a question here, so it's hard to answer. [[There was no question.]] I'm so happy for you. In view of the above, thank you kindly. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Ask if we are right in worshiping Poles.]] The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u489	The position of the club PSL for the report of the committee on the draft resolution on commemorating the 140th anniversary of the birth of Bolesław Biękas, prints No. 1401 and 1443. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Bolesław Bięgas is considered the leading representative of the symbolic and secessional direction in the Polish sculpture. He managed to preserve his individual form of work, which is astonishing by its unique diversity and richness of subject matter. His work is appreciated all over the world, which is important, given that he emigrated from Poland, then died in exile, and is a little known in Poland. This resolution will contribute to the dissemination of knowledge about the artist's work. The PSL Club supports the parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 140th anniversary of Bolesław Bięgas' birth.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u490	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I remain confident that the next points will go equally smoothly and quickly. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland (prints Nos 1437 and 1445). I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture has examined the Senate's amendments. She felt that all these amendments, some of them These are editorial amendments, it's worth taking into account. The committee therefore recommends that all amendments tabled by the Senate be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u492	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u493	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I present my position regarding the amendments of the Senate to the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland. All amendments tabled and accepted by the Senate of the Republic of Poland club Law and Justice supports. This amendment is particularly valuable, which orders the issue of the fathers of independence and which will now be included in the preamble, supplemented by the record of Ignacy Daszyński and the wording concerning the generalization of the Polish Army and the clergy. However, as far as the generalization of the Polish Army is concerned, I think that this is particularly valuable, although of course it would also be possible to think about listing Polish Army soldiers directly here, but I think that symbolically this formulation of the Polish Army's generalization concerns all the military effort and dedication of Polish Army soldiers. And the emphasis of this word "generality" probably refers to outstanding Polish generals, such as General Kazimierz Sosnkowski or Gen. Tadeusz Jordan Rozwadowski. The other amendments clarify the functioning of the Committee and the completion of its work after the end of the year 2021, the completion of the Committee's work in 2022 at the latest. The Law and Justice Club supports the Senate's amendments. I think that this initiative of the President is very valuable, because it will make it easier and possible for the Polish Republic to celebrate the national anniversary of regaining independence over several years, to celebrate individual anniversaries and all the military effort, but also political and all the commitment of the Polish people to regain their independence 100 years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u494	Thank you. And Mrs Iwona Sledzińska-Katarasinska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u495	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Well, it happens that once every 100 years the Civic Platform Club, which I have the honour to represent, can agree with the Club Law and Justice. I wish it would work the other way, too, and that the Law and Justice Club... [[100 years from now.]] ...agreeed with the Civic Platform club. Indeed, these amendments of the Senate are obvious and ordering the text of the law, so we will support them, as will the entire committee. Although it doesn't change the general impression that the bill is a little bit about something else, but the title about something else. The law is about setting up a committee, not about celebrating the 100th anniversary of recovery. But we understand that this is where the President's office and the President himself wanted to manifest their importance and importance, so we'll close our eyes, even though we've tabled an amendment, but it's gone. And actually, of course, it's a little bit of a bill, I would say, decorative, because in fact, these celebrations extended for a few years will be organized in authorities already purely executive. But it's okay if you meet with an important committee from time to time and look into it. As important as it is, we'll see. I feel a little sorry for the president because he's going to have half a government on this committee and very different backgrounds. Now the Senate has added to this the local government, which may be right in substance, only that the committee has grown very much. But I understand it's the will of the majority. And as I say, once every 100 years, we can accept that, too. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u496	Mr Tomasz Jaskola. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we have the great pleasure of presenting the position of the Kukiz club15 on the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. We support all five amendments, especially that the most important one, about extending the number of fathers, so-called fathers of independence, founders, is the projection and idea of the Kukiz movement. And we are glad that a decent socialist, Ignacy Daszyński, has been added here. The socialists used to be decent. I was wondering how to justify a position at this point. I understand that there is a late time and perhaps not always such justification is beneficial to you. However, I was wondering - because this is, however, the 100th anniversary of the reconstruction of the Polish state, the existence of the homeland, whose freedom for 123 years, of course, was expected - what these founding fathers would say today, looking at the situation of the Polish state. And I think they will tell us that exactly what the Second Republic has suffered, unfortunately there is still a day, which is some partying, quarreling in parliament, which is often not justified, taking Polish affairs abroad, which I do not agree with. And they would probably have exactly the same prescription: a new, decent constitution, one-mandate electoral districts, mandatory referendums, that is, listening to citizens. Because the Second Republic, which Gombrowicz wrote about, but not only, and Żeromski, did not get rid of one very important aspect, namely the feudalization of society. Unfortunately, we have never been able to overcome this great problem in the Second Republic. I hope that right now we could do this with such constitutional changes. The Kukiz Club will vote in favour, of course. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u498	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u499	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Modern, of course, supports all Senate amendments. They're obvious. We are particularly satisfied, at least I personally, that Ignacy Daszyński was included in this pantheon, which does not mean that I do not think of him uncritically, as did Joseph Piłsudski. After all, these are the people who carried out the coup in Poland, but then there were times when dictatorships were something valid in Europe. This is not the subject of our debate today. I would like to draw your attention to one aspect of our consideration of independence. It is worth answering the questions: What is independence? In what direction? Today we're thinking about independence? What are some of the elements of our independence? What does it really mean? We usually think about politics, we don't think about politicians anymore. We think of military, general, those who take the rifle in hand, but we do not think of women or artists, and independence is primarily culture. I would therefore like to remind you how important this element is, because in the end, the fight for independence is a fight for Polish culture. It's pretty clear. We must not forget that, alongside prominent politicians and social activists, the success of 1918 is also due to Polish artists. The artists, who maintained the national spirit during the partitions, but also stood at the height of the task at the moment of forming the borders of the reborn Republic. The period of the Young Poland, immediately prior to Poland's regaining independence, is a time of outstanding artistic individualities, which creatively referred to our tradition and articulated bold postulates for the future. Stanisław Wyspiański in his lyrics - in The Wedding, the Klątwie or the November Night - said no to the Sienkiewicz reflection on the history of Poland and advocated the building of a modern, secular, diverse society. He was rehearsed by artists Jacek Malczewski and Władysław Podkowiński, composer Karol Szymanowski, critic and publicist Tadeusz Boy-Żeleński, writers Tadeusz Miciński, Leopold Staff, Stanisław Brzozowski. We are experiencing an incomparable epoch with any other in Poland's history; nothing in our history can be compared with the fact of the elimination of partitions, only once the foot of centuries passes such a moment," wrote Tadeusz Peiper. That's, among other things. he undertook to create a new Polish culture. Together with representatives of the avant-garde: futurists or camandrites, he formulated expectations and tasks for Poles in the new political reality. Stefan Żeromski did the same, who hoped for visions of a modern democratic homeland, free from mistakes of the past. The pro-European attitude in her work was represented by the great three [[♪ The bell ♪]] Interwar artists: Stanisław Ignacy Witkiewicz, Witold Gombrowicz and Bruno Schulz. They opposed their literature with a narrow, endecque patriotism, postulating openness and critical dialogue with the Polish past. Speaking of outstanding figures of independent culture in Poland, we must also not forget Ignacy Paderewski, who successfully combined activities in the field of art and politics. Recovering independence in 1918 was also due to a multitude of anonymous Poles, both civilians and soldiers. The individual experience of millions of Poles cannot be forgotten. I hope that the year of the century of Polish independence will also be celebrated by artists who contributed very much to this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u500	Thank you, sir. Two Members signed up for questions. Please, Mr Sylwester Khrushch is the first question to be asked. One minute to question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u501	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With this amendment to this law, I initiated the whole debate about people, attitudes, political directions that built Poland in 1918, which brought us independence, and I also talked about these people, these attitudes, these political programs, which our Polishness, our democracy built in the years to come. When I wrote this amendment, when I said that our Polish independence was being built by democrats, endecs, football players, independenceists, folks, Vincenty Witos, Chadeks, Korfanty, also Ignacy Paderewski, we really forgot about other people here, so that right now - as an endek - we are expanding this range of attitudes, people, political directions, because this law in the century of independence [[♪ The bell ♪]] It should connect us all, from the left side to the right side of this room. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u502	Thank you. And Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 100 years ago, we regained our independence. After many years, after the divisions, after the partitions, the Polish nation was able to join together to form one nation, which would be able to defend its independence. After 100 years, Mr President presents us with a bill that sets up a committee to celebrate the centenary of regaining independence. He appoints and presents to us this law the president who has been dividing Poles for two years into better and worse. This wasn't supposed to happen. [[Applause]] [[But you shouldn't be saying that right now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u504	And it was so nice. I don't know if the Minister... I don't think there's any point in answering that kind of question. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u505	On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the resolution of the Senate on the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland. In 2018 there is a hundredth anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. On 11 November, it was established by the Law of 23 April 1937 on Independence. In order to guarantee the celebration of the highest rank, the bill assumes the creation of the National Committee of the Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland, composed of the highest authorities of the Republic of Poland, representatives of political parties and groups and social organizations. The solutions provided for in the proposed law cover both the celebration of the anniversary of the events of 1918 and the subsequent years. The bill sets out the rules for preparing the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. The Senate of the Republic of Poland introduced 5 amendments of a more specific nature into the Act. The Polish People's Party Club will vote in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u506	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure and certain other laws (prints 1438 and 1452). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present on behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure and on certain other laws, prints No 1438 and 1452. I would like to remind you that the project aims to prevent the continuity of administrative procedures and to increase citizens' confidence in and resolution of administrative authorities. On 3 April, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the emergency committee for consideration. The committee meeting was held yesterday, i.e. April 5th. The committee was attended by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development, Mariusz Haladyj, together with his colleagues, committee experts, as well as the staff of the secretariat of the committee and the Legal Office of the Sejm Chancellery. The Senate has adopted six amendments, five of which are strictly technical and have been adopted at the request of the Senate Legislative Office. Only amendment 1 is of a substantive nature and concerns the narrowing of the scope of the bodies entitled to mediation in situations where the mediation party is the administrative body conducting the proceedings. The Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications after considering the draft resolution unanimously requests the High Sejm to accept the amendments as proposed in the Senate report. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen for their cooperation, as well as all the experts and participants in the committee's work. In case of specific questions, I am at your disposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u508	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Again, I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u509	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate on the Law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and certain other laws. I would like to remind you that the project is part of the so-called project prepared by the Ministry of Development. package of 100 changes for companies - package of facilitations for entrepreneurs. There is no doubt that changes in administrative procedures are necessary for the economic development of our country and for the improvement of Poles' assessment of the functioning of the administration. The vast majority of us, both entrepreneurs and other citizens, regard the current state as unacceptable due to formalism, complex procedures, long-term proceedings, lack of confidence in pending decisions. In our view, the Senate's amendments improve the law passed by the Sejm. We want a more serviceable country for citizens, we want a faster examination of administrative matters, we want a more efficient administration. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club supports the adoption of the Senate amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u510	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Osos. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u511	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present a position regarding the Senate resolution on the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and certain other laws. The Senate has made six amendments, some of which are editorial, technical and orderly. The substantive amendment is as legitimate as possible, in line with the spirit of the amendment, which will help to improve the administrative procedure, speed up the procedure and the Platform will therefore vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u512	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. As has been said many times before, this is precisely one of these laws, which can be called a good change. First of all, it takes greater account of the interests of the citizen than those of the state, and this is an absolutely good direction. One of the objectives of this law is to speed up, facilitate, also to the citizen, administrative proceedings. So, in the spirit of this acceleration, let me briefly say that the Kukiz Club,15, supports the adoption of all six amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u514	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poselski Club The modern will support all amendments made by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u516	I, too, thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u517	The government project involves changes in the existing institutions of administrative proceedings, as well as the introduction of completely new, unknown Polish law solutions. The revision introduces solutions that will improve administrative procedures and shorten their duration, reduce excessive formalism, reduce the number of casatorial decisions, create a more partnership of administration towards citizens, ensure the adequacy of administrative fines for infringements and a friendly interpretation of the rules. Most of the amendments are, however, more precise and editorial. The Polish People's Party Club is in favour of all amendments made by the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The senators considered that 6 amendments had to be made to the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure, a project which, by simplifying procedures, would improve the functioning of the administrative system. Among them, in addition to editorial amendments, there are also substantive amendments. One of the revised solutions is mediation, which, as a new institution under administrative law, is intended to provide an alternative to the way in which cases are dealt with so far. The first amendment of the Senate concerns the limitation of the possibility of selecting a mediator in these proceedings to permanent lists of mediators and letters led by non-governmental organisations and universities which may create mediation centres. This is a provision ensuring that mediation is conducted by people who are appropriately qualified and with appropriate experience. I have no doubt that this change, by guaranteeing the competence and competence of the mediator, will benefit all parties involved in this process. The next amendment introduced by the Senate concerns the repeal of § This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 163c, according to which, in the case of simplified proceedings carried out on the basis of an official form submitted, new circumstances could be notified only at a time when they would be relevant and at the same time not be extended. I agree with the argument that the rights of the parties cannot be restricted simply because this may extend the procedure. This confusion of priorities and it is clear to me that this cannot be the case. It is also clear that if the deadline can be postponed, it is enough to pass on to the general principles of the Code of Administrative Procedure and the problem of the deadline will cease to be a problem. In recognition of the above comments, near Free and Solidarnia will vote in favour of the proposal with the amendments proposed by the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u519	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the excise duty Act (prints No 1440 and No 1450). I would like to ask Mr Mark Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u520	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance a report on the work of the commission on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on excise duty, print No 1440. Ladies and gentlemen! Senate on 30 March this year. he considered the bill passed by the Sejm. He proposed that a single amendment be introduced to its provisions in order to introduce measures to improve the monitoring of the use of totally contaminated ethyl alcohol. On 31 March, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration, and the Committee on Public Finance yesterday, i.e. 5 April this year, considered the amendment contained in the Senate's resolution to this law and recommended that the High House adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u521	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I ask Mr Mark Polak to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u522	Thank you again. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of our club in relation to the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Act on excise duty contained in print No 1440, as well as the report of the Committee on Public Finance contained in print No 1450. In the only amendment, the Senate proposes a mandatory register of both completely contaminated ethyl alcohol and products containing contaminated alcohol in Poland. This solution will allow for careful monitoring of the actual use of contaminated alcohol, thus sealing the existing and proposed control system in this regard. Our club, after careful examination of the Senate resolution, recognises the validity of the proposed solutions and we will vote against the Senate's rejection of the Senate's amendments, as recommended by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u523	Thank you. And Mr Vladimir Nykel, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the excise duty Act. First of all, it should be recalled that European Union law provides for the exemption from excise duty of wholly contaminated alcohol. However, certain contaminating measures, including in particular the Hungarian contaminater, are unsustainable or easy to remove, which facilitates tax fraud. Unfortunately, in Poland there are many such frauds. At the same time, the courts allowed us to interpret that ethyl alcohol can be contaminated in any way permitted in any Member State, including the Hungarian method. The regulation contained in the bill is necessary and deserves a positive assessment. It removes the question of interpretation that has been raised against the background of the existing wording. As a consequence, new solutions cannot be exempted from excise duty produced in Poland by alcohol completely contaminated according to the Hungarian method. The Senate amendment provides for the introduction of a mandatory register of operators receiving completely contaminated alcohol and certain products containing ethyl alcohol. The register is intended to allow monitoring of the use of completely contaminated alcohol and the products I mentioned. It is to be run by sales entities, namely sales in packs of 20 litres or more. The amendment deserves a positive assessment. It is doubtful to refer only to the Polish Classification of Products and Services, not to the Combined Nomenclature, CN, and as we know from the PKWiU already in this sphere we have actually left. Overall, however, the assessment is positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u525	Thank you. And Mr Mirosław Pampuch, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate amendment aims to clarify the issue of excise duty collection. The introduction of this register will result in Polish entrepreneurs who, under this law, are obliged to use a Polish or European contaminater in a situation similar to the situation of entrepreneurs who will purchase alcohol contaminated by the Hungarian method within the framework of an intra-Community acquisition. This will create a level playing field among these entrepreneurs. Therefore, the Members' Club The modern one will support the Senate's amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u527	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u528	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position to the committee's report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the excise duty Act, prints No 1440 and 1450. The Senate of the Republic of Poland has tabled one amendment which introduces a mandatory register of alcohol sold in our country completely contaminated in any EU Member State and selected products containing ethyl alcohol in its composition in an appropriate classification. No entry in the register shall be made where carriage is covered by a road monitoring system. The amendment will allow monitoring of the use of completely contaminated alcohol. The Committee on Public Finance requests the adoption by the High House of the amendments of the Senate and Parliamentary Club PSL will vote in accordance with the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u529	I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims (prints Nos 1439 and 1451). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u530	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development at the meeting yesterday leaned on the resolution of the Senate in print No. 1439 on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. The committee's report is contained in print No 1451. At the joint meeting of the two committees, we discussed a total of 13 amendments. It is worth noting that these amendments were tabled at the request of the Legal Office of the Senate. Most amendments are legislative, drafting, harmonising or clarifying. It is worth noting Amendment 7, which aims to add a transitional provision to exclude doubts as to the scope of the new wording of the investor liability provision. In the case of amendments 8 and 9, the purpose of the applicants was also to amend the provisions which should apply to the operations carried out after the date of entry into force of the amendment. In the case of amendments 12 and 13, I would just like to clarify that, according to the Senate Legislative Office, one provision should not enter into force on different dates, and this is a legislative change. After a long and turbulent discussion and dispute between the various parties, the committee decided to support all the amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u531	I also thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Bubula.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u532	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I present briefly the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the Senate's amendments to the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. As you know, this new and very expected regulation by entrepreneurs and local authorities concerns the strengthening of rights and guarantees for creditors, in particular creditors from the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. It provides inter alia. the ability to obtain information on the liabilities of a potential counterparty, enhances the proper protection of the investor and the contractor, and determines the grounds for concluding a settlement in the case of disputes. The Senate's amendments mainly make legislative and editorial corrections, which clarify and do not change the essential solutions adopted by the Sejm, which is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of them, i.e. against the rejection of Senate amendments to the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u533	Thank you. I would like to ask Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. There is no Member. Mr Paweł Grabowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u534	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the Senate resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. Is it easier to fish in muddy water or is it harder to fish in muddy water? It's a philosophical question. I allow myself to have such a philosophy because this law, in effect, implies reducing the cloudiness of this water, increasing the level of transparency, i.e. with which the Kukiz15 movement went to the Sejm. It is about increasing transparency in public life, but also in private life between business and consumers. This bill is going in that direction. The introduction of the Register of Public Claims is a good direction. Increasing the level of information on claims is also an increase in the level of safety of all economic turnover. With regard to the amendments proposed by the Senate, it must be said that they do not actually change the meaning of this law, the direction of this regulation. Therefore, as these are minor amendments, Kukiz15 recommends that Members accept all the amendments of the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u535	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims, print No 1439. The Senate has tabled 13 amendments to the bill submitted. All these amendments are technical in nature and aim to increase legislative coherence both within the law and in the relationship between the law and other legal acts. The amendments make no changes that could affect the substance of the law. Part of the amendments refers to the characteristics of the application of the provisions during the transitional period in respect of economic events started before the entry into force of the Law. The Senate also proposes a significant restriction of the provisions of the Act which would enter into force later than 1 June 2017. The Modern Club will be in favour of all amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u537	Thank you. And late Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska, please speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u538	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are focusing on the Law on amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. This time we are looking at amendments tabled by the Senate of the Republic of Poland, which clarify the bill submitted by the Sejm. These are amendments that, unfortunately, we have not avoided, we have not clarified in our House, for example. refer to the indication of the relevant creditor or eliminate the repetition of certain contents. There are those who say that we have not ensured adequate consistency in the scope of the regulations of individual editorial units. There has been an amendment that eliminates the shortcuts introduced by our House. The only amendment that raises our reservations is Amendment 7. It was called into question by the Legislative Office, which considered that this was unfortunately an incorrect legislative provision. In order to ensure the correctness of the law, we will not support this amendment, but we are positive in all other amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u539	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u540	The amendment is intended to improve the liquidity of companies, improve and facilitate the recovery of debts, and to address congestion. Its solutions should also increase the ability of traders to assess the reliability of the counterparty's payment and improve the effectiveness of judicial redress. The amendment provides for, among others, the establishment of a Register of Public Claims containing information on public arrears, such as tax obligations, administrative penalties, customs duties and fines. The Senate has made 13 amendments. The changes made are primarily legislative in nature. The Polish People's Party Club is in favour of 12 amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u541	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law (Prints Nos 1441 and 1468). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate passed 11 amendments to the Act in print no. 1318, amending the Environmental Law Act. Amendments 1, 2, 5 and 6 align the terminology of the law. Instead of talking about people, we talk about members of supervisory boards everywhere. Amendment 1 also leads to the composition of the Supervisory Board of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management of two representatives of the local government of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government Commission. These amendments 1, 2, 5 and 6 are accompanied by amendments 8 and 10. Amendment 8 modifies the content of the article. 2 and 10 contain the deletion of paragraph. Article 4 3 and it is precisely this unchanged national composition of the fund and the consequences in these editorial units. The Commission recommends that amendments 1, 2, 5, 6, 8 and 10 vote together and give a positive opinion. Amendments 3 and 9 are amendments which take into account the fact that the Vice-Presidents of the Supervisory Boards of Voivodship Environmental Funds appointed by the Seyms of Voivodships are in fact members of the Councils. And here these amendments 3 and 9 which should also be voted together align this terminology. The Environment Commission also recommends adopting these amendments. Amendment 4, in turn, is an amendment which concerns the obligation for voivodships to establish detailed conditions for the remuneration of members of the supervisory boards of voivodship funds for participating in the work of councils and the amount of remuneration resulting from this. Another amendment, Amendment 7, is a clarification amendment and concerns the possibility of setting up a single-member management board of the Voivodship Environmental Fund. Amendment 11 concerns the adoption of the statutes of the voivodship funds. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry recommends that all these amendments be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u543	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, please take the floor. There isn't. [[If you don't mind, I'll speak on behalf of the club.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Voice from the room: He's coming, he's coming.]] Ah, Mr Maciejewski is here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I was honoured to present to the High House an opinion on the Act amending the Environmental Law. This time the subject of consideration is included in the resolution of the Senate of amendments in print No 1441. This resolution was adopted by the Senate on 30 March 2017. I've already spoken twice about the bill under review. There has already been a deep discussion in the House and, I hope, a comprehensive discussion, so I will limit today's speech to only 11 amendments adopted by the Senate. In view of the above, I would like to point out that the proposed amendments are a response to the demands of the local government, the Joint Government Commission and the Territorial Government, regarding the leaving of two representatives of the local government as members of the Supervisory Board of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The Senate also accepted amendments eliminating changes to reduce the number of members on the supervisory board of the national fund and harmonised terminology and eliminated provisions not containing normative values in this Act. These are good changes, and I would therefore like to inform the High House that the Law and Justice Club will support all the amendments adopted by the Senate, because in this case we are dealing with a clarification and in this way an improvement of the bill under review. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u545	Thank you, sir. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u546	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform club to present the position of our club in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law Act. Our position on the whole law has been repeatedly stressed and maintained. It coincides in the assessment also with opinions commissioned by the Office for Sejm Analysis, as well as by local governments. It is a charge of unconstitutionality, centralization and the taking away of competence of voivodships or voivodship communities in financing environmental policy of the voivodship. I'll refer to the Senate's amendments. It is only a pity that this Higher Chamber of Reflection has limited itself to converting people into members and to ensuring that the fees of these newly appointed supervisory boards will, however, be determined by the voivodeship, not by the voivodship board, and as if it contradicts the idea, ruins the idea of applicants to introduce savings in the national environmental fund, reducing the size of the supervisory board by one person. It ruins this element that these savings also apply to the national fund. On the other hand, these amendments also illustrate the philosophy of the current ruling majority, that it is important that our people rule and that our people set salaries for these people, and that it is important not for individuals or personalities, but for members or membership. The Civic Platform Club will not vote against amendments which in fact only improve the draft prepared on its knee, but will vote against returning to a lack of savings in the national fund and to ensure that its man sets salaries for members of supervisory boards. Each of them measures with its own measuring measure. I think the point is that someone did it in such a spirit that if the other side were in the same place, she would certainly make sure that it wasn't ours, perhaps, to lower the salary. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u547	Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u548	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law. We have not changed our positions on the bill, because we believe that the law is unconstitutional, centralizes, takes away the possibility of deciding local matters to local institutions. From behind the desk in Warsaw will decide on matters that you will not really have more knowledge about. As regards amendments, as mentioned here, amendments are usually of a corrective, precise nature and do not make any specific changes in substance. Speaking of the first amendment, which concerns personal storage, there were 11 people first, now it's 12. When our proposals were to increase the number of members, you refused to do so. Now all of a sudden, the opposition amendments are bad, and the Senate amendments are good. You increase the number of members by one person. In fact, you take a step forward, then you take a step back. Another objectionable point is the lack of consequences in the pursuit of savings, because since you are talking about savings, we have an example of one of the regional environmental funds, probably in West Pomerania, where the President decided to reduce the remuneration of board members and board members. It's relatively... [[I think he's already spent it.]] Don't bother me, okay? I am showing savings, while here you are talking about the detailed conditions for paying members of the supervisory boards of the voivodship funds for participating in the work of the council are determined by the voivodships. For me, this is the summit of hypocrisy on these two amendments. I'm sure we can't support them. As far as the others are concerned, we have no objections. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u549	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Zgorzelski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u550	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Today, once again, we are leaning on the changes to the environmental law proposed by the Group of Members. This is because a law comes back to us aimed solely at personnel cutting and jumping to further posts. Regardless of the chaos introduced and the destruction of the support mechanisms tested over the years, regardless of the protests of national local communities, regardless of the allegations of unconstitutional change, you are seeking to take over your positions. I would like to address the Members of the PiS, since the voivodship funds remain local legal entities within the meaning of the Public Finance Act, what is this self-government? Is it because the supervisory boards of the fund appoint a minister of the environment? Or is it the voivode's principle of rewarding these counsels? Or is it that the voivode appoints a representative of non-governmental organisations, of course, those licensed? The perfidy of this solution is that the local government is left to identify one in five members of the supervisory board. It's a fig leaf, and it's just a little bit fastricked, because if a seymist can't get his representative appointed to the board within 30 days, the minister can appoint his representative. Another local government provision is an indication of the management board of the voivodship to appoint the management board of the voivodship fund in the composition indicated by the supervisory board. If the Management Board of the voivodship does not make this appointment within 7 days of the date of the submission of the application, the Board of voivodship shall appoint itself the Management Board. Another amendment. The self-government of the fund is ensured by the statutes given by the sejmik. In the 10th Senate amendment, it is proposed that the statutes of the Sejm funds should be issued within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the Act. In view of the way in which the Seymists are convened, the need for committees to evaluate the material, the proposed deadline may be too short, then transitional statutes will be given to the voivode. The question arises: Is it appropriate to construct in which the voivode as the legal supervisor of the resolutions of the Seym is simultaneously designated for the performance of the replacement activities, i.e. from a replacement fund statute? High Seym! The proposed amendments aim at centralising the management of the environmental funds system concentrated in the national environmental fund. Therefore, instead of powdering the self-government nature of the voivodship funds, it was necessary to change their status from local legal entities to the voivodship branches of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, the state right person. But you lacked courage and imagination, or perhaps guidelines. This law is a demolishing act of the existing system of environmental financing in Poland, bringing voivodship environmental funds to the form of a specific hybrid, by the name of the local government, and remaining under the full control of government administration. You bring chaos and you'll pay for this chaos someday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[No threats, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u551	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 6 April. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I can't hear you, so I think the list is closed. Please, Mr Giżyński will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u552	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Modern and Civic Platform are free and fully democratic parties whose members can say without obstacles what they think, even when they do not think.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u553	Mr Jacek Kurzepa. [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] This is Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u554	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! April 4th this year In the Art Collections in Włocławek the post-competition exhibition was officially opened with awards to the winners of the 9th edition of the sculpture competition. Stanisław Zagajewski. The competition from three editions has a nationwide range and is increasingly attracted by young sculptors who are inspired by the work of Włocławski's artist. This is demonstrated by the number of nearly 200 participants, including 70 of schools and artistic centres from all over the country. For years, the project has aroused admiration and respect for the organizers, as well as participants who keep their memory so beautifully from the late prominent Italian artist Stanisław Zagajewski and at the same time pursue their artistic passion. Stanisław Zagajewski was born around 1927 and died on April 4, 2008 in Włocławek. Polish sculptor, self-educed, raw art artist, intuitive artist, referred to as Włocławski Nikifora. The date and place of his birthday are unknown. He was found in winter on the steps of St. Barbary in Warsaw. The child was assigned a name and entered a fictional date and place of birth. He spent his childhood in a nun's nursing home. He made a living doing a lot of different jobs. Arts of firing clay forms taught him in the cooperation of the work of Sztuka Kujawska in Włocławek. The complete collection - a permanent exhibition of more than 120 sculptures, including several altars, is owned by the Kujawska and Dobrzyńska Museum in Włocławek. Zagajewski's sculptures also have in their collection, among others. museums in Warsaw, Katowice, Toruń and Lausanne. The artist was awarded the Bronze Medal of Gloria Artis, the special award of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage and the Honorary Medal of the Senate of Poland. Lonely by choice. He once said that talent is a great thing, it's a mystery, it's a great power in a man. A real artist equals a wild animal. The content of these few words has become the essence of his humble life. Sacrificing himself completely for art and giving up entirely on temporal goods, he devoted himself to the passion of creation. He lived art and art. He locked his artistic visions in unique works, their fame has an international dimension. Another edition of the sculpture competition. Stanisław Zagajewski shows how real today the dream of Włocławski Nikifor's memory of his works and the upbringing of successors became. In the Museum of Kujawska and Dobrzyńska Land and the Brewery B Culture Center, which was run by seven editions, I participated as the guardian of the students of the competition. I am proud of the fact that also in this year's edition my former pupils became finalists of the competition. I am delighted that as a Member of the Polish Parliament, I was also able to fund a special prize in the competition. Congratulations to all the winners and participants. I would like to express my special thanks to the students' tutors for the great work they have put into their preparation, for raising the interest in art in young people. I wish everyone further artistic successes, broadening their horizons and continuing search for creative solutions, organizers - many successful editions of this prestigious and important for us, Włocławian, competition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u555	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 24 and 25 March in Konin the 21st National Football tournament was held. Olka Ruminkiewicz about the Cup of the President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda. At first glance one can say - a tournament like many other tournaments in Poland organized for children up to the age of 10 by those who are at heart of passing on the youngest in a sporty way the right relationship between people so as to enjoy it at the same time. However, going into the history of this tournament and reaching its origins, we will note that the initiative to create the first indoor football competitions for children in Konin was created as a result of very tragic events in 1996. Let me say a few words about this. One day after dark, ten-year-old Olek Ruminkiewicz leaves for the neighborhood arcade. It's a trailer where a couple of gold kids can play fliers. His father gives him money without suspecting he's seeing his son for the last time, because his son's not coming home. The search begins. Two days later, Father Wojciech Ruminkiewicz receives a call stating that Olek is alive, is safe, and there is a ransom demand. Even though his father managed to raise the amount of money he wanted with his family and friends, he did not save his son. A 10-year-old boy Olek Ruminkiewicz was murdered and thrown into a well like a worthless and unnecessary thing. That's how Olek's life stopped, the baby, as many others did. The time stopped, the lack of dreaming, the lack of joy and sorrow, the lack of laughing faces of innocent children. Tragism of a global dimension adds that the murderer was a judge who previously judged criminals by law. The world has also collapsed for parents who are difficult to accept victims. In a moment, someone brutally ruined their lives by ruining their family. Parents also had no more dreams and hopes of their children being taken away by death. What parents feel about murdered children can only be understood by those who have experienced similar tragic events. Often families can't get up from their knees and suffer their whole lives. Fortunately, there are those who, constantly feeling pain in their hearts after the loss of their beloved child, try to continue to stop in time, not realized by their sons and daughters' dreams. To them, among others. Wojciech Ruminkiewicz has been in possession of 700 PLN of pension for several years. Immediately after his son was murdered, he decided to establish a nationwide association of families, which unfortunately have similar tragic experiences. He knew that in this group he would find motivation, strength and sense to work with children. Therefore, every year at one of the primary schools in Konin organizes a children's football tournament - Olek's memory. The main idea of the tournament is to commemorate Olek Ruminkiewicz and other children who became victims of violence, who, like all the participants of the tournament, could, competing with each other, enjoy as much as possible, develop their personality. Today they certainly patronize every competition in Konin. So it is good that the presidents of the Republic of Poland joined this patronage, from Lech Kaczyński to Andrzej Duda, who took over the 21st tournament with his patronage two weeks ago. Various politicians come to the competition, including Members, offering interesting prizes and cups, as well as Polish artists. At the last tournament, young athletes and their group were accompanied by Don Vasyl. Kids play soccer for two days and play. They're not missing anything. All this is provided by tournament organizers and team maintainers competing with each other. Looking aside at the involvement of many people in organizing this tournament, at the sincere joy of the players and their rivalry, you can confidently congratulate you today, Wojtek, on the idea. Almost from the beginning I have been trying to support you in this undertaking, because I believe that we must not waste time for children. Polish football tournament Children. Olka Ruminkiewicz in Konin is your success. Without him, boys from the Public Primary School No. 6 from Radomska could not enjoy this year, who won this prestigious tournament and won many valuable prizes, including the President Andrzej Duda Cup and prizes funded by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, President of the Polish Football Association Zbigniew Bońek and the Mayor's Cup of Konin Józef Nowicki. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Wojtek, for what you are doing, and I wish you perseverance in passing on the positive energy that is so much needed, especially for people with similar experiences to you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u557	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Bożena Kaminska, I would like to make a statement. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] This is Mr Jan Mosiński. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] This is Mr John Kilian. [[Voice from the room: There isn't one either.]] Then it is Mrs Anna Nemś. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[I'm here.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On April 2, we celebrated World Autism Awareness Day. Autism is a disease that affects more and more people. Statistics in this respect are alarming. The number of autisms has increased six times in the last 20 years. By the time I finish my speech, there will be an estimated 250 children in the world. Most likely, two of them will be diagnosed with overall developmental disorders, including autism. The causes of this disorder are not yet fully known. Doctors believe that autism is caused by abnormal brain function in early childhood. This can be influenced, among others. genetic factors, pregnancy and childbirth disorders. Autism is a developmental disorder that affects how a person affected by a disease perceives the world, how he interacts with the environment and how he processes information from the environment. Autistics usually find it difficult to communicate with other people, have problems with communication, abstract thinking, or with learning. According to estimates, 5 million people live with autism in Europe, for which the change in public awareness of their illness is truly fundamental. According to the Charter on the Rights of Autism adopted by the European Parliament, people with autism have a number of rights. Nevertheless, many people affected by this condition still do not have the possibility to use specialist diagnostics, therapy, education on a daily basis. Many of these people face a number of barriers in the labour market, have problems settling in the nearest environment and face many, often prosaic problems of everyday life. Remember how important it is not only once a year to show that we are open to people with autism and their problems. Let's not be green about autism. Not only in April, but let's be blue all year round. It is the color of solidarity with people with autism and their families. In my parliamentary work, I met people with autism, their loved ones, their families, and these are special people. I'm convinced that even though I tried to help them, I actually got more than they got from me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u559	Thank you very much, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u560	Mr. Marshal! Fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen of the country! Spring goes and it's not particularly revealing, given what we see outside the window and feel in our guts. You want to live. Birds cricket, the sun looks into all the corners of the world, spring rain smells, smells intoxicating. Women put on lighter dresses, fluffy and colorful, their thirsty sunny X-rays, their faces turn like sunflowers into the sun, and their eyes squint in a twinkle, not knowing whether it's towards you or towards me. The men are surprised by their excess weight, which is a fall after the winter's stillness, will manage the treadmills, gyms and rollers, hoping to burn the excess effectively. All the more so that the reward for this will be a more reliable figure on summer beaches and hope for a taxing sight of delicious protein. Oh, the blood is storming and the earth is swelling from excess juices and energy accumulated in it. You go out in the morning to work, you stand at the stop of MPK, with stalling, though you must go underground under the metro, although you would prefer to fly a bird through the air in the morning, slip into the workplace, and immediately as soon as you find yourself there, open the window: let it blow us, everywhere reaches the breeze of fresh spring. How about life? Is spring also taking place in my life? After all, it is a time of growth: with new strength, potential, renewed vitality. And I'm not just talking about abandoning what's been incriminating, what's wrong with bad eating habits, what's wrong with physical activity, what's wrong with other people, what's wrong with the world at all. For I also mean spring between you and me, mom and dad, household, or perhaps even wider - Poles. Will they find in themselves the willingness and hope of mutual recognition of lively and fresh green stalks, arms wrapped in a friendly gesture of our home, our homeland? Will they have respect for the difficulty of getting out of their fossils as you are growing again? Will you be interested in helping me to grow again or to rise again? We are also in the pre-Christmas period. The mystery of Christ's resurrection awaits us. If you share, as do I, faith in this resurrection and find meaning in it, then it is also for us a time to rise from our downfalls, despisings, enslavements. Spring, Mr. Brother, in the air, in the heart and in the conscience. Take advantage of your natural synergy with nature and with your Creator, so that you can also grow yourself - today, without delaying anything for tomorrow. Let's immediately become springtime and share this spring at the Easter table. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-06-sejm-39-2.u561	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 7 April 2017, at the latest by 7 April 2017 at the latest. 9. All your persistent Members and all your secretariat staff: good night. Good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 53]]
