ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Mr Sylvester Tulayev, Mr Arthur Sobonia, Ms Monika Wieliczhowska and Mr Krzysztof Truskolas as secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Sylvester Tulaev and Mr Artur Soboń. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Members Sylvester Tulaev and Monika Wielichowska. I consider the minutes of the 36th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. At the 36th meeting of the Sejm, the Sejm did not vote on the motion to reject the draft law amending the Act on personal income tax at first reading. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including this vote. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Environmental Law, - to amend the Pharmaceutical Law Act. The reports shall be printed in 1318 and 1222 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the excise duty law. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the information of the Minister of Health on the Basic Hospital Health Benefits System. The Bureau of the Sejm also proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on draft resolutions: - in honoring Professor Marian Raciborski on the 100th anniversary of his death, - on the establishment of 2017 Year of Care for Sobriety of the Nation. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the state of staff in Polish diplomacy, which was requested by the Kukiz Club.15 The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance together with the Infrastructure Commission - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finances - immediately after the conclusion of the joint meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, about an hour. 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.15, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 10.15, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 10.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the National Defence Commission - hour 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Legal notice - hour. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Foreign Affairs - hour 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 16.15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 17, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 5:30 p.m., - Education, Science and Youth - immediately after the end of the joint meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development, ca. hours. 5:30. In addition, I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 10.15, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Digitalization, Innovation, IT and High-Tech - hour 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u3	Thank you very much. Formal proposals have been made by Members. The first Mr Richard Petru, the Modern Club. [[But everyone knows everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. Point 3 (1) shall be formally requested to interrupt and convene the Seniors Convention, which shall complete the agenda of the Sejm for the following resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow is a crucial European Council meeting for the future of the European Union. One item on the agenda of this summit will be the renewal of the 2.5-year term of office of Donald Tusk as President of the Council. It is in the interest of the Republic of Poland to extend the term of office of Donald Tusk regardless of the differences in his assessment of the role of Prime Minister, it is in our interest that the Pole should be at the head of this important institution. Therefore, the modern one proposes a resolution of the Polish Sejm, which will commit the government to support Donald Tusk's candidacy: Resolution of the Polish Parliament of 8 March 2017 on the election of the President of the European Council. The European Union is a great community of values and is the basis for Europe's security and harmonious development. On the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome, despite many crises, the Union is assessed as the best political project in history. Thanks to political and economic changes, Poland has been a member of the European Union since 2004 and has been actively involved in decision-making concerning the European Community. Today, the European Union is facing major crises, surrounded by the arc of instability in the east and south, and uncertainty after the UK decision to leave the European Union. She's politically and economically weakened. So she should be thinking about development, not focusing on her own problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish Parliament on the eve of the European Union Summit in Malta obliges the Prime Minister Beata Szydło to act in the interest of Poland and support the President of the European Council Donald Tusk for a second 2.5-year term. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is required by the Polish state right. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u5	Thank you, sir. The formal proposal was submitted by Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club pursuant to Article. Paragraph 184. 1 I request a break and a call for the Seniors' Convention to complete the agenda of the meeting for information from the Government of the Republic of Poland on the extension of the mandate of the President of the European Council. The Prime Minister writes a letter to the Heads of Government and States at the last minute, proposing a candidate who does not have the slightest chance of choosing. [[We'll see about that.]] On the other hand, we have been demanding information in this House for quite a long time. It requires a serious, serious reason for the High House to be informed on this matter. At the moment, the fate of Europe is decided. The most important countries of the European Union met in Versailles: Spain, Italy, Germany, France. I ask: Where is Poland at this moment? [[Applause]] [[But Donald wasn't invited.]] I heard you guys were getting off your knees. Where is the voice of Poland in the most important debate on the future of the European Union? [[Where's Donald?]] At a time when the future of the European Union is decided, the Government of Law and Justice is wailing [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] the most important Pole in the most important EU position, contrary to the Polish state. [[What's the most important Pole?]] At the last minute, the government reports a candidate who doesn't stand a chance, who isn't supported by anyone... [[But there's a Pole.]] ...and it is still surprising that the decision is taken by majority vote, while the Treaty of Lisbon, I recall, was negotiated by President Kaczyński. [[Applause]] [[Don't yell like that, man.]] Unfortunately - and I regret that - the rule of law and justice is being removed from the remnants of seriousness and credibility on the European stage at the moment most important for the Union. [[Applause]] And that is why we would like the High House to be taken seriously and that the Prime Minister should present this information to all of us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u7	Thank you very much. Two formal requests, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the same case, but in a slightly different form. [[But let's vote.]] I would like to inform the High House that at the meeting of the Convention this was discussed, the conclusions of the Civic Platform Club - because there were actually two of them - were addressed to the Committee on European Union Affairs. The proposal of the Modern Club... Until 3 p.m. I have not received such a proposal, so we will see it at the next meeting of the Convention. At the same time, I inform you at the Convention meeting that I will convene a Convention meeting this afternoon, where we will also consider the issue of the Government's information on the matter that you are bringing to the table. Because, first of all, I'm going to want to know what the situation is, whether the Prime Minister can possibly be, what the government thinks about it, but, second of all, only if there's a consensus of all the clubs, so I asked all the clubs to think about it. If it were agreed, then I would withdraw those proposals addressed to the Commission for European Union Affairs. Upon official request with a list of Members signed by the club I'm looking forward to it. I would therefore propose that we approach these conclusions in this way. I'm guessing between hours. 15 and 16 today I will call the Convention. There will also be other issues that I signaled at the Convention meeting, but also this case. [[Voice from the Chamber: Voting.]] And right now... [[...managing the vote.]] I'll announce after hours. I'm gonna take a 15-minute break and call the Seniors Convention. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and some other laws (prints Nos 1183 and 1304). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I present on behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications a report on the government draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and certain other laws, print Nos 1183 and 1304. As the applicants point out, the project aims to counter the chronicity of administrative proceedings and to increase the confidence of citizens in administrative authorities and their decisions. This is to be done by improving administrative procedures and shortening their duration, reducing the amount of casatorial decisions and a more partnership of administration towards citizens. A few words about the process of the project. Marshal of the Sejm at the 34th meeting of the Sejm on 25 January 2017 pursuant to Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred this draft to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. The Commission considered the draft at its meetings on 25 January and 22 February 2017. During the course of the work, he was assigned to the Permanent Sub-Committee on the revision of the electoral code and the Administrative Procedure Code, which I had the honour of chairing. The subcommittee was held on 8 February. Written opinions for the bill were presented by the Public Prosecutor General of the State Treasury and the National Representation of Self-Governmental Colleges of Appeals. The latter opinion consisted of the positions of the SKO from Gdańsk and Łódź. The meetings of the committees and subcommittees were attended by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development, Mariusz Haladyj, together with his colleagues, committee experts, as well as employees of the Sejm: the secretariat of the Committee of Justice, the Extraordinary Commission and the Legislative Office. In addition, Kamil Szmid, together with his colleagues, took part in the meeting of the committee. The result of the committee's work is the draft law included in the committee's report in print No 1304. At the meeting of the subcommittee and committee, general discussions were held on the project and then all the regulations of the project were systematically discussed and adopted twice. In the opinions submitted and during the discussion, doubts were raised as to the appropriateness of some of the project regulations. As a result of the discussion and the amendments notified, some of these doubts were eliminated or mitigated. Six substantive amendments were adopted at the subcommittee meeting, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] and additionally legislative amendments. The substantive amendments concerned the clarification of certain issues, including: who may be a participant in mediation, as well as defining the mediator's powers in accessing the file. The next eight substantive amendments and legislative amendments were adopted at the committee meeting. These included: that the authority should not only instruct about the right to waive the appeal itself, but also about the consequences of such a waiver, and that it should specify that a waiver of the imposition of an administrative penalty will be possible in the case of the previous final punishment of the party for the same administrative penalty or penalty provided for in criminal or criminal law. Practically alone, the proposal for the preservation of the article was not accepted. 15 c.p.a. in the current version, i.e. that the administrative procedure is two-way. He has overcome the view that this provision should be adapted to the existing legal situation and to the existing exceptions, i.e. The wording of the text shall be: "The administrative procedure shall be two-way unless otherwise provided for in the specific provision. The work of the committee, High Izbo, was constructive, efficient and carried out in a good atmosphere. This was seen in the votes. At the subcommittee meeting, the draft was adopted unanimously, no one was against, no one abstained. The same was true at the committee's meeting: 8 Members voted in favour of the report, no one opposed it, and no one abstained. The Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes after considering the draft law asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law as proposed in print 1304. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen for their cooperation, as well as all the experts and participants in the committee's work. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u9	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and certain other laws. The project is part of a package of 100 changes prepared by the Ministry of Development for companies, a package of facilitations for entrepreneurs. There is no doubt that for the economic development of Poland, changes in administrative procedures are necessary to improve the assessment of Poles' functioning of administration. The vast majority of us, both businessmen and other citizens, find the present state unacceptable because of formalism, because of the complexity of procedures, because of the length of proceedings, because of the lack of confidence in pending decisions. That is why we strongly agree with the aim of the Council of Ministers to prepare this project. This is to combat the long-term nature of administrative proceedings and to increase citizens' confidence in administrative authorities and administrative courts and their decisions. As a result, we also support the implementation of the specific objectives set out by the Council of Ministers: improving administrative procedures and shortening their duration, reducing the amount of casatorial decisions, a more partnership of administration towards citizens. In our view, the project contains a number of solutions leading to the objectives pursued: to resolve factual and legal doubts in favour of the party, to seek an amicable settlement of the matter. The project makes it possible to use mediation in the administration, provides for new clear rules for the application of administrative penalties, which should be appropriate to the offence and the accompanying circumstances, and, finally, shortens the way for administrative cases in administrative courts. We want a more serviceable country for citizens, we want a faster examination of administrative matters, we want a more efficient administration. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club will support further work on the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u11	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Osos, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position on the Extraordinary Commission's report on the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and some other laws. The proposed changes from the point of view of the citizen, individuals should be assessed positively, which was already the case during the first reading of the project, when all clubs agreed to direct the project to further work. High Izbo! The administrative procedure covers a very wide range of cases, and it is in this procedure that citizens' cases are most often dealt with. That is why it is so important that administrative authorities act efficiently, quickly and that regulations, on the one hand, guarantee the protection of individual rights and, on the other hand, uphold the legitimate public interest. And it has to be acknowledged that the proposed changes are moving in this direction, because we have here solutions to deformise and speed up the procedure, we have a whole package of solutions related to the amicable settlement of a case or solutions that aim to eliminate excessive use of casatorial powers, which significantly prolonged the procedure and was quite common practice. It is also important for an individual to introduce a principle of dispute settlement in favour of the party where there are doubts about the content of the legal standard and the subject matter of the proceedings is the imposition on the party of an obligation or restriction or withdrawal of the right. Such regulation will certainly safeguard the interests of the parties against excessive discretion in the interpretation of the law by employees of public administrations. It is also a positive change that the principle that public administrations do not depart from a well-established practice of resolving cases in the same factual and legal situation without unjustified reasons. Consequently, the party to the proceedings requesting the initiation of the procedure will be able to foresee a possible decision in advance, in so far as the factual or legal situation of the party concerned is such alone as previously decided. However, there is a problem with this regulation. the fact that it does not define the vague concept of established case-solving practice. Negatively, the proposed amendment to point 5 of the article should be assessed in our assessment. 1 of the project, namely the indication that administrative proceedings may not be of a two-way nature in the situations referred to in the specific provisions. Abstracting from constitutional arguments, because there is no uniformity of views on constitutionality or lack of constitutionality in terms of the necessity of two-instant administrative proceedings, attention should be paid to the important arguments of both legal and practical nature. Firstly, the absence of a two-instant nature of the administrative procedure may not only result in the parties being deprived of the right to review the case twice, but also, in fact, detract from the operation of the so-called. administrative supervision of lower-level bodies carried out by higher-level bodies. Secondly, such regulation may aggravate differences in the practice of applying certain provisions where higher authorities are deprived of the possibility of verifying such decisions. Thirdly, such regulation will ultimately lead to an avalanche increase in complaint cases to the administrative court, which is in fact more formalised, time-consuming and costly. During the committee's work, an amendment was tabled concerning the deletion of this proposal, but it was not accepted by the majority. The other amendments proposed during the committee's work should be assessed positively. Although the project designer has not avoided some oversimplifications, the global assessment of the project submitted must remain positive. The Civic Platform will therefore vote in favour of this report. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u13	Thank you very much. A beautiful gesture by Mr Rometsky, who made here a wish to the House for Women's Day. [[Applause]] I think that, on behalf of all of us, to all the ladies present in the Parliament's Chamber - thank you very much - we wish our dearest wishes, including to the ladies at the gallery, for women's Day. Happy birthday, ladies. [[Applause]] And please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications on the government draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and other laws. Quite a complicated introduction, but it will be easier and more enjoyable. Well, when I first spoke on behalf of the Kukiz club 15 about this project about about a month ago, I said that I dreamed that when we were talking about a project that restores normality, it assumed normality in administrative proceedings, in proceedings that would not be a confrontation of the citizen with the state, with a great institution of the state, but rather a more friendly one. It turns out that after a month this dream has turned out to be a reality, it will become a reality from the day that the President signs this bill, which I believe deeply in. With regard to the concrete solutions that are proposed in this project, it is certainly worth mentioning some excellent, simple solutions that actually completely change the agreement of forces between the citizen and the State and the institutions of the State acting under the Code of Administrative Procedure. In the first place, it is worth mentioning the new section added to k.p.a., i.e. the section: Mediation. This has so far been impossible, and many cases, if mediation were possible from a formal legal point of view, if officials could, had grounds for mediating, would have ended sooner or not even had to be formally initiated. Going on: silent handling of the case. This is a breakthrough and you really have to say here: chapeau bass towards the ministry, because it decides to take such a brave step. So far, citizens have rather waited - infinity at times - and the silence of the office never meant doing things according to the citizen's mind. Now, in accordance with this new regulation, if the office, the official handling the matter, fails to comply with the time limit specified in the legislation, will be deemed to have just granted the citizen the right of the office, the state institution. This is a very good solution, and we are very positive about it. Besides, the work of the committee or subcommittee itself - what the rapporteur here pointed out: actually no objection to the final vote - indicates that the project is actually being judged as a good one. Proceeding further: simplified procedure. It is often so that in simple matters, in which e.g. there was only one party, general provisions were applied, which were often too formal, causing too much burden on the party. So the introduction of simplified rules will simply simplify this procedure, make it easier for the citizen in these matters. Going further: European administrative cooperation. This legislation has been missing so far, and we have been in the European Union for 13 years. Thus, their introduction to C.P.A. give a real basis for Polish offices, Polish officials to cooperate more effectively with their colleagues from other European countries. It is also worth noting - and we will certainly enforce about 2.5 years from now - the provision in the law that ministries, ministers are obliged to make some kind of review of legislation. The point is whether this principle of duality is preserved. So that we will certainly look into it, I hope, in about 2.5 years, when the bill will come into force. The planned date of its entry into force is June 1, 2017. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, let me say this: if the largest opposition group, which we often call a total opposition, indicates, announces that it will support this project, then the more rational the opposition, primarily aimed at the interests of the citizen, also the citizen of the entrepreneur, because here in many proceedings there are entrepreneurs... If the largest opposition group points out, it announces the support of such a project, we as the Kukiz Posel Club15 will certainly also recommend that our Members support this project in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u15	Thank you very much. And Mr Mirosław Pampuch, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u16	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and some other laws, print No 1304. There is no doubt that amendments to the Code of Administrative Procedure aimed at introducing solutions to eliminate excessive formalism from administrative proceedings, which resulted in a significant length of proceedings, should be considered appropriate. In particular, the proposed solutions to bring about an amicable settlement through mediation deserve support. There is no doubt that mediation is under-used in our legal culture, so it is good that this project introduces the possibility of dealing with matters in this form, including in the case of administrative matters. It is only necessary to wish that the practice of these cases should lead to the highest possible number of administrative cases by mediation. Solutions to speed up administrative procedures as well as the wider use in administrative procedures of the principle of convincing citizens to govern administrative authorities are also welcome. The introduction of a general rule on the settlement of legal doubts and the rules on the settlement of factual doubts in favour of the party in cases where an obligation is to be imposed on the party or its entitlement is to be taken away should also be welcomed. Attention and support should also be given to solutions to speed up and formalise administrative procedures by introducing rules on the silent settlement of the case or simplified procedure, as well as the possibility to object to casatorial decisions, which will potentially eliminate the abuse of the institution by administrative authorities. On the other hand, our doubts are raised by the wording of the article. 15 - amendment of Article in principle. 15 - the Code of Administrative Procedure, which introduces the possibility of limiting the principle of duality in administrative proceedings. This is all the more questionable because of the wording of the article. 14, which requires ministers to verify all administrative proceedings with a view to the appropriateness of maintaining a two-way procedure or its possible limitations. It is in our view that it may violate the constitutional principles of duality. However, given that further specific provisions Or they will refer to this principle, we will monitor very closely and in detail those laws which will eventually be brought forward, in the course of further work on specific laws and here, however, ensure that this principle of duality is not completely eliminated. Because, as it was said here, the ruling of cases also requires the possibility of being verified by a higher authority, as well as by a higher authority, to have full control over the settlement of cases in the bodies of first instance, so it can interfere here in situations where such case law is inappropriate and thus shape a line of case law in administrative proceedings. So, in view of all these aspects, i.e. the decisive advantage of the positives over the negatives of this law, the Posel Club The modern will support this government presentation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u17	Thank you. And Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a good thing that we are dealing with a government bill, an important bill, because there is a guarantee that the Minister, the government, has carefully analysed these proposals for changes in the law on economic activity. And that's important and important that we don't have to deal with things like last time we cut down trees. Simplification - we simplify the law and we are glad that we simplify this law and then it goes as it is, and the proposal to fix it is moving towards an even more restrictive direction than it has been so far. This shows how reasonable it is to approach these solutions. The Polish People's Party believes that this is a good project. Never too much deregulation, because the law devalues itself, and you have to keep track of what is wrong with business regulations, because the nature of your business and your environment changes, so you have to do it on an ongoing basis. It was done, it is and it will have to be improved and improved every once in a while. I would disagree with the fact that this is a miracle solution, that suddenly there will be a miracle and entrepreneurs will feel free, free, they will have everything they want. That's not gonna happen. Whoever lives in reality knows it's impossible. Here it is important to decide in favour of the state institutions. It's not always like this and you could give dozens of examples here, the best ones are out of life. An example of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture - checks are underway at the moment and payments have been withheld for farmers, because there are doubts as to whether the farmer has made a good application. So by June, farmers will not have payments paid because someone suspects it might be wrong. If there is a presumption of truthfulness, then pay off and then come to an end. I would also disagree with the fact that suddenly the bill is so great - she is good and needed - that everyone supports, even the opposition. As I recall, in previous terms also deregulation laws 100% were supported, Minister, by the opposition, by the PiS then, 100%. Because this must be done, as I said, because the law must be transparent, legible and adapted to the current situation. So I wouldn't be thrilled if something extraordinary happened. It's just normal, and we should all strive to create a good law, eliminate all the irregularities that happen. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to say that we are in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement on behalf of the circle in writing. Therefore, we are asking questions. Two people signed up for questions. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo. You're welcome. Two minutes to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From the provision of the Article. 16 § 3 - Final decisions which cannot be brought before the court are final - it follows when the final decision becomes final. On the other hand, the Act does not specify what the effects of the decision on the quality of validity are. In the text of the article. 107 § 1 of the Code in the draft version, which sets out the mandatory elements of the administrative decision, only the obligation to instruct the party on the right to appeal and on the right to waive the appeal is indicated. However, there is no obligation to inform the party that the result of the waiver of the appeal will be a loss of the right to appeal to the administrative court. Such consequences may not be obvious to the parties to the proceedings. Shouldn't the article be supplemented. 107 § 1 of the obligation to instruct the party on the consequences of the waiver of the right to appeal against the decision taken, i.e. whether it is not possible to lodge a complaint with the administrative court for a decision which has become final as a result of the waiver of the appeal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u21	Thank you very much. And Mrs Marta Golbik, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 15 is replaced by the following: Administrative proceedings shall be two-way unless otherwise provided for in the specific provision. The explanatory memorandum states that the aim of the project is not to repeal the principle of duality. Allowing the administrative procedure to be shortened to one instance does not necessarily mean reducing the duration of the whole process. The limitation of the right to appeal by administrative means will undoubtedly result in an increase in the number of complaints before the administrative court. Judicial proceedings are seen by the citizen as being ailing. It is more formalized - pleadings, longer - long time periods of trial, and also involves the payment of costs - court fees, ordering the case to a professional proxy. Thus, the citizen is deprived of a relatively simple, cheap and proven mechanism of questioning the decisions of the state authorities. Are you sure this change has been introduced in the interests of the citizen and is helpful in his fight against the country's machine? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u23	Thank you, Member. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Minister Mariusz Haladyj. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! Just a quick comment. Katarzyna Osos said that there were two instances, but that there were contradictions between the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. There are no such contradictory judgments, i.e. there are no judgments that would question the unconstitutionality of such a change. With regard to the double consideration that we are thus taking the opportunity to examine the matter twice, this is also the question of Mrs Marta Golbik, I would also say that no, because please note that we are not introducing the principle of duality. We maintain the principle of duality as a principle, and we introduce a single instance as an exception. But also in this project, we do not change any procedure from two-instant to one-instant, but, as Mr Grabowski said, we manage, we can say, we introduce such a review clause, we will review procedures in terms of the effectiveness of these procedures. The Member is right that, where this is an efficient mechanism, ergo, I read it in this way: where the effectiveness of the second administrative instance is so great that it does not actually lead to judicial proceedings, no one will want or intends to repeal this second instance. This review is designed to capture inefficient procedures. Where the level of effectiveness of the appeal to the second administrative instance is even negligible, that mechanism is cheap, but it is certainly not efficient at that time. Only in such administrative procedures is there room for this II instance to be repealed, shortened. In these situations, the citizen only passes through the bureaucratic myth in the form of the second instance, on the basis of hard data that will be taken into account, only and only wastes time, without any benefit from it. Please also note that, in order for the second instance to be repealed in concrete proceedings, it will follow the parliamentary path each time, because it will have to be done by law. Thus, every time Parliament, then the President, will assess whether, in a given procedure, this resignation from the second instance, proposed e.g. by the Council of Ministers, if any, it is justified. There is a rule that where there is a functioning second instance mechanism, that second instance will certainly not be repealed. I will also answer the question, as stated in Mrs Osos' speech, that the principle of supervision will be affected by the possible repeal of the second instance in certain procedures. The second instance is not intended to be used for the supervision of the authority, but for guarantees or the enforcement of rights by the party. As I said, by giving the previous answer, where it does not serve, there is already a different procedure from supervision, and here in the first place should be the party to the proceedings. Mr Grzegorz Furgo asked about the consequences of the determination of legality - Article. 14. He is materialized and implemented in Article. 127, which is just when you give up your rights of appeal. This definition of legitimacy is needed there and this definition will be used in these situations. The Member rightly noted that there was a shortage of a proposal submitted by the Council of Ministers, i.e. when the body resigned, it would not inform the party of the consequences of this waiver, but it was repaired, modernised as part of the work of the subcommittee. I mean, art. 112 will instruct the Authority to inform the parties of the consequences of the waiver of its right to appeal. So that I hope that this concern, this reservation of the Member in this way, will also make it possible for him to... That's how we answer that. It's just the last sentence. Mr Kasprzak said that it would not be a project that in one move would change the whole reality, that it was not so great, etc. First of all, we have never defined this project in this way. Secondly, that is why there is a whole package of actions, as Mr Wróblewski said at the beginning. This is part of a package of 100 changes for companies and we want the whole package to bring the effect of a significant simplification or improvement of the conditions for the pursuit of economic activity. Upgraded C.P.A. is, of course, a very important part of this package. Finally, I would like to thank the President very much also for the very efficient, at the same time substantive and substantive work carried out by the subcommittee, and later also the presentation of the project on the subcommittee. It's a great pleasure to work on the project this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u25	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski. Are you an MP? There's no envoy, is there? It is, isn't it? So he's taking the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To sum up the work of the committee and the subcommittee, once again I can stress that the work we have done was a work that was consistent, that all the comments submitted were, however, considered. They've enriched the project. They've improved it. I would also like to thank the Minister, the Ministry, the experts who have put in a great deal of work, also with great care, on the comments made by the committee's participants and experts. I hope that this project will actually improve the functioning of Polish administration and the satisfaction of citizens from how Polish offices work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u27	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and some other laws following the work on this project in committee and subcommittee. I have expressed my appreciation for the business facilitation package prepared by the Ministry of Development more than once. No one needs to be convinced that there is a need to change the current administrative conditions to make it easier for ordinary citizens to move around the system. There is a need to simplify and streamline mechanisms that are unnecessarily high and complicated. I am convinced that a package of 100 changes for companies will meet its objectives and meet its hopes. My conviction has not changed the changes made to this project during the work of the subcommittee and committee. The main objective of the revised amendment has not changed. The solutions originally proposed, such as the solution to the dispute through a mediator and mediation, a friendly interpretation of the rules, the settlement of disputes in favour of the citizen, and the possibility of silent settlement of cases, were preserved. During the committee work, some issues have been clarified and clarified so that they can fulfil their tasks more effectively. In my opinion, the changes made to this project will have a significant impact on the quality of life of citizens, among others. by removing administrative barriers to business development. In my opinion, the proposed solutions, which translate into quicker and simpler handling of matters, will increase citizens' confidence in you and encourage entrepreneurs to innovate and invest. The Free and Solidarnia Circle supports all initiatives for citizens, in particular those which, like the project, facilitate their daily work. We therefore request that this project be continued.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u29	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. High Izbo, before we go to the next point, two minutes of technical break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 52 hours 10 min 56]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship (prints no. 1211 and 1302). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to the High House a report from the Joint Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, which have examined the government's initiative to establish a metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. This law was the subject of work, very intense, on 21 February at the meeting of those joint committees which examined the government draft law contained in print No 1211. I would like to stress, as rapporteur, that the report of the joint committees has been drawn up with a very important contribution from the government party, headed by the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs representing here, undersecretary of state Sebastian Chwałek and also present at the meeting of the Silesian Voivodeship, Mr Jarosław Wieczorek. The meeting was also attended, among others. representatives of the local authorities concerned. I would like to mention in particular President Zabrz Małgorzata Manka-Szulik, who is the president of the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union, and also present at the meeting of Mr Marcin Krupa, who represented the city of Katowice, also made very relevant and important comments because of the fact that the president of Katowice has also been given some basic competences in connection with the organisation of the future metropolitan union in the Silesian voivodeship. All those involved in developing this important and important solution from the point of view of the government in Silesia should be thanked. I also add these thanks to the ladies and gentlemen of Members - all members of the Joint Committee. I would like to remind you that the government's draft law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship responds to the need to create such a union in the Upper Silesia area, which was reported by cities already in the Upper Silesia Metropolitan Union just after the entry into force of the metropolitan union law of 9 October 2015. The creation of this metropolitan union on the basis of the current law in the assessment of the government - it was very specific and substantively defined here - was not possible, however, because the current law contains significant shortcomings which prevented the effective creation of such associations and may also hinder the functioning of its bodies. This government project dedicated to the Śląskie voivodship eliminates the disadvantages contained in previous solutions adopted by the parliament of the previous term of office. For the record, I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that these reservations were particularly relevant to the manner in which metropolitan areas were delimited, given that the guidelines of the law were not clear here and that, on the basis of this, an area could be designated covering more than three times the number of municipalities involved in cooperation. Also, the issue of the smooth taking over of part of public tasks by metropolitan unions has not been sufficiently addressed. Also, the government's assessment is not entirely adequate with regard to the functioning of the board of directors of the union, starting with its size and the mode of selection. The new rules contained in the government initiative are intended not only to enable the effective creation of a metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship, but also to ensure the ability to carry out public tasks which are crucial to citizens. High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As rapporteur, I cannot overlook the fact that the draft law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship was prepared by the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration in cooperation with the Silesian local authorities. I have already mentioned the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union here, and it is also worth mentioning the Communication Communal Union of Upper Silesian Industrial District. These local government environments plus city presidents have very well assessed this initiative, which has been the subject of Parliament's work. The project was also consulted with the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. Thanks to this commitment and consultation that took place in the committees, this work has gone very smoothly. I would like to stress that, with regard to the amendments that were made during work, the Legislative Bureau submitted an editorial amendment to the draft at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Local Government. The draft submitted by the Joint Committee to the High House also contains amendments which will allow the creation of a metropolitan union on 1 July. He won't be in danger. Assuming that this law would be published at the end of March and April this year, the committees proposed to amend the maximum deadline for the Council of Ministers to issue a regulation on the establishment of a metropolitan union from 31 March to 30 June. In addition, the consultation process of the proposal, which is being prepared by the City Council of Katowice, on the creation of a metropolitan union and was reduced from 3 to 2 months by the time limit for taking a position by the councils of the cities and municipalities concerned and by the Sejmik of the Silesian Voivodeship. The proposed changes to the evaluation of the committee provide the necessary time for local authorities to prepare a proposal for the establishment of a metropolitan union, and the consultation and legislative process that will take place will allow this relationship to be established on 1 July 2017. During the work, the committees also proposed an extension from 30 days to 2 months from the date on which the appointment of President Katowice's first meeting of the union was established, which would act as a proxy for the creation of a metropolitan union. This is to avoid possible difficulties which could be linked to ensuring maximum attendance of city presidents during the first session in August due to the holiday season. Minority requests have also been submitted to the committee's report. In general, minority proposals are intended to restore this solution, which could be applied in the assessment of applicants, in such a national formula as in the submission of the previous term, which was adopted in 2015. However, they were not accepted by the joint committees. Finally, I would like to emphasise in particular that the proposed changes to the project have been supported by a large majority of Members of the Commission: the Territorial Government and Regional Policy and Administration and Home Affairs. Of course, they also received a positive opinion from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, a positive opinion from the Silesian Voivodeship, the president of the city of Katowice and representatives of the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union. In the vote on the report, the committees, with the exception of one abstention, adopted the report, accepting, of course, its content. I can express, also as a Member of Silesian soil, the great satisfaction that we are on the eve of the historic reception for the cities of the Silesian agglomeration of the system solution, which is dedicated to the future of this part of Poland, bringing together more than 2 million inhabitants. I'm expressing great joy again because of this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u31	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform the High House that this debate about the Silesian metropolis is being listened to by students and teachers from primary school in beautiful Trumpets, the municipality of Pilawa. I am all the more satisfied that it is, as I have learned, a school that our colleague, Mr Grzegorz Wozniak, has graduated from. So that we greet young people and teachers. [[Applause]] Let's get to the discussion. The Sejm has established that on this item, the agenda will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will also be spoken by Mr Jerzy Polaczek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u32	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the joint report of the Commission: Administration and Home Affairs and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this project and has tabled several technical amendments to it in the course of its work in the Sejm, thanks to which the creation of a metropolitan union on 1 July this year. He won't be in danger. The Commission has adopted these amendments, extending the deadline for the Council of Ministers to 30 June, and has shortened the consultation period for the creation of a link from 3 to 2 months. However, these are only technical solutions, as I mentioned, which improve the process of establishing a relationship. I would like to stress, High Izbo, that the essence of this initiative of the government is to give, by law, a systemic proposal to cooperate with the Silesian area, i.e. over a 2-million-dollar agglomeration, in which there is no three-stage self-government structure, because almost all cities are powiats, and above the level of these cities which are Grodzki districts is immediately the level of voivodship. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress that the government, recommending that the Sejm adopt this law, appreciates the fact that various types of bottom-up integration initiatives have been appearing in this area for years: from the Communist Communication Union to the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union. So far, they have encountered a lack of an appropriate legal legal instrument that would allow for stable and wider cooperation between the local authorities involved in the future metropolitan union. In support of the government's initiative to establish a metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship, I would like to express my satisfaction that today the project is a historic opportunity for the inhabitants of cities already forming the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union: Bytomia, Chorzowa, Gliwice, Dąbrowa Górnicza, Świętochłowice, Tychyów, Piekar Śląskie, Zabrza, Rudy Śląska, Siemianowice Śląskie, Katowice and Mysłowice. Today, in Upper Silesia and Zagłębie, the process of social and cultural integration of the inhabitants of the region, the old ones, the quotes, and the new ones are taking place, and this government initiative aimed at a highly integrated area in the part of the Silesian voivodship is in particular a project to give new forms of cooperation, and above all it is the implementation of these postulates of the Silesian voivodships, which relate to issues such as the creation of partnerships and conditions for cooperation between local authorities with a view to the future of Silesia. These processes contained in the draft law on the creation of a metropolitan union will determine the future of this significant piece of Polish land. The government, properly diagnosing these challenges, sees in the initiative submitted to the Sejm a tool enabling cities to play the role of one of the most important centres of economic, civilization and cultural development of Poland in a decisive way. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will make one amendment at second reading. This amendment provides for the reduction of the period of vacathio legis from 14 days from the date of publication to the day following the date of publication. I would like to stress this in my speech as rapporteur and just a moment ago, that the content of the bill is closely followed by the local authorities concerned, in particular by the city of Katowice, who was granted the initiative to form a union. This is of course also observed by cities forming the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union and the Silesian Voivodeship. Those bodies shall make appropriate preparations so as to be able to implement the law immediately after its entry into force. Therefore, in our view, this amendment should also be read in such a way that the reduction of vacathio legis will contribute to the smooth establishment of a metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship, starting on 1 July 2017. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u33	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Mark Wójcik. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is worth recalling that today there is a law on metropolitan relationships drawn up in the previous term of office of the Sejm, passed by a large majority of the Sejm, because it was passed not only by the votes of the members of the Civic Platform, but after many months of work in the committee it also gained the support of part of the opposition. This solution, which was developed in the previous term of office, can be said to be such a model today, because in all metropolitan projects - and in all government projects and those submitted by the opposition - today you are referring precisely to those solutions that we have worked out in the previous term. Certainly in Silesia it is worth creating a metropolis based on the model developed in the previous term. As regards the existing law, it is also worth noting that the difference is that these provisions, which entered into force on 1 January 2016, enabled the creation of metropolitan unions in all metropolitan areas in Poland. There are eight and eight metropolitan areas in Poland that could benefit from these rules. As far as interest in this law is concerned, the most advanced works were in Silesia, while local government officials from Warsaw, Lower Silesia and Małopolska were also interested in creating a metropolis based on the current regulations. Unfortunately, the government project prevents the creation of metropolitan areas also in other regions of our country. I would like to point out that in Silesia over 20 local governments wanted to benefit from the current law. These local authorities have adopted resolutions of their city councils, and they have also conducted appropriate consultations, which unfortunately have been annulled by the Silesian Voivodeship. Today, after the entry into force of this law, which we are working on today, these consultations will have to be re-launched. As far as solutions related to the operation of the metropolitan area are concerned, of course, we support them as the Platforms Club. They are based on those solutions that we have developed, as I mentioned, in the previous term, while we have doubts about narrowing down the possibility of creating a metropolis only to the Silesian voivodship. This is the discussion we proposed at the committee meeting and we tabled such amendments. I understand that the will of the majority is, however, to reject these amendments, to limit the law only to the Silesian voivodeship. Therefore, at the second reading, we will report amendments which concern only the Silesian Voivodeship and only the Silesian Voivodeship, concerning this concept of a special law for the Silesian region. And here, when you look at it from this point of view, you can see that the rules on the operation of the metropolis are consistent with those in force, so we certainly will not criticize them, we will not change them. Unfortunately, we believe that the procedures for creating the metropolis that the government has proposed are inappropriate. Unfortunately, these procedures complicate the creation of a metropolis. What we think is the greatest danger is raising the population threshold to 2 million inhabitants. Follow up on this discussion that took place in Silesia. It was a discussion that concerned 14, sometimes 17, 18 cities. As for those cities that were determined about mutual integration, there never was It's more than 2 million inhabitants. Today we know that some cities, such as Jaworzno, do not want to avail themselves of this law prepared by the government. Consequently, raising the population threshold to 2 million poses two dangers. One danger is that some cities, perhaps such as Jaworzno, will have to include by force and against the will of local governments de facto coerce them to create a metropolitan area together, and the other risk is that applicants, creating a metropolitan area, may go a little differently and try this metropolitan area very far to spill. And instead of a metropolis that has 20 cities, it could be a metropolis that will have to count 27, 28 often unrelated coherent cities that will not have, by applying for a metropolis, prepared joint projects integrating the agglomeration. It is very difficult to imagine common projects between Wojkowice, Knurov and e.g. Katowice. Today we do not know what projects will be created thanks to the metropolis. Unfortunately, this poses a serious risk that the management of such a creation, which would have 27, or perhaps even more, entities with very different interests, and achieving common and ambitious objectives for the benefit of the inhabitants integrating the Silesian agglomeration will be extremely difficult. That is why today we are proposing an amendment that reduces this population threshold to 1 million. We believe that in Silesia there will be enough local governments who want to integrate and jointly pursue common and ambitious goals to reach this million-dollar electoral threshold. However, thanks to the introduction of a millionth threshold into the bill, we will certainly avoid these dangers which I have been talking about, namely, firstly, pulling local governments into power which do not want to integrate as strongly as the law requires, secondly, temptations to reach the threshold of the need to attract all local authorities, often infrastructureally and structurally unrelated to the center of the agglomeration, and this can unfortunately cause problems in the future related to the management of this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u35	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u36	As for the bill: we will support the bill, but we believe that the discussion on the population threshold and issues related to these difficulties...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u37	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u38	...should be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u39	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honored to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft law on printing No. 1211 on the metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship. In the club we have various doubts, which in part have been outlined in advance: doubts about the number - 2 million or 1 million, doubts about whether it will not work again if the municipality does not express its will and consent to accession, the mechanism for automatically making someone happy by force. Without a doubt, at the Kukiz club15, we would like to start to take the opinion of local governments more seriously as part of the creation of relationships, especially the opinion of locals. If it is the will of the inhabitants to join, then let them join, and if it is the will of the inhabitants not to join, it is worth taking this opinion seriously and not only as optional, something that can, but does not have to be taken into account and accepted by the government party. Without a doubt, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a historic event, because for the first time since July the idea of a metropolis in Poland, a kind of fourth level of self-government, can materialize. There is a lot of doubt, the question arises whether there will be duplication of local government administration, the question whether there will suddenly be a need to add new forms of tax and to participate in taxes for the new structure, whether there will be duplication of Grodzki powiats and paralysis of municipalities in all of this. For this reason, we will make two amendments on behalf of the Kukiz Club. The first amendment concerns Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and consists in adding point 7 after point 6. Our amendment is about expanding the range of activities of the metropolitan union to include activities in the field of physical culture and tourism, including recreational areas and sports facilities. It should be noted that in the Silesian Voivodeship many recreational areas and sports facilities are located in the territory of more communes or powiats than one. The extension of the catalogue of public tasks to activities related to physical culture and tourism, including recreational areas and sports facilities, is therefore justified and targeted. The second amendment concerns, ladies and gentlemen, Article. 16 draft law, which provides that a metropolitan union may provide assistance, including financial assistance, to local government units and their associations. The amendment aims to extend the catalogue of entities to which the relationship may provide assistance, including financial assistance, to local government entities in the public finance sector and to local legal entities set up on the basis of separate provisions for the performance of public tasks. High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 will support further activities and works related to print project No. 1211. We will be in favour of these actions and we will be guided by the fact that the Silesian government is waiting for this dedicated law and that there is the opinion of the committee of the common government and of the local government. And at the same time this is a lesson, as I said in the introduction, which is supposed to allow us to continue with the creation of other metropolises. We are taking the first step - the first step in a very historic direction - and I am curious myself as chairman of the local government committee, as this task as a Sejm will be done so that this structure of the metropolis is established and effective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, I'm making amends.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u41	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The work on establishing a metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship was abundant in many twists of action - the hope of making good changes for Zagłęg and Śląsk was often resolved by doubt. The validity of the changes has never been questioned, but more often the sincerity of intentions, the timeliness of action, too tight deadlines making the undertaking impossible to implement. Then there was hope again, e.g. in December, when the project received its official number and was expected to be voted on, then in January, when the announcement of a vote that did not take place. However, work in the Sejm has taken an extremely rapid pace since the end of February, and the preparation for the discussion of each of the parliamentary clubs has led to a happy end. I would like to say from this point of view that each of the people who have contributed to this bill so far, regardless of the political stage, deserves respect and thanks for the added brick that has produced a good document. The Modern Club gives its full support to the idea of establishing a metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship. We are convinced that the people of the future metropolis will benefit from the changes introduced by the law. The Silesian-Załębian integrated body will become a source of building a competitive advantage in Europe and will directly affect the quality of life of the inhabitants of the Silesian voivodship. For the first time, there is not only a real opportunity to adopt a law, but, most importantly, to implement it. The changes introduced in the course of the Parliamentary work, which include an extension of the deadline for issuing the relevant regulation by 3 months, have been taken into account, for which we thank you. Our club is not afraid that local authorities will not be able to carry out the necessary tasks, such as drafting resolutions on public consultation, convening board meetings, announcing the text, holding consultations, waiting for an opinion. Local governments have shown many times that they are reliable. Other important changes that have already been made have certainly gone in the right direction. The definition of the tasks of the metropolitan area and the elimination of questionable provisions concerning the formation of metropolitan areas by municipalities, rather than more generally by local authorities, is fundamental, as the doubts related to the interpretation of these issues could paralyze the functioning of the new organism. As I signaled at first reading, we also consider it valuable to introduce an initial period for the metropolis to prepare for full action. Hopes concerning the establishment of a metropolis among the presidents of Silesia and Zagłębia representing all political options are very large, and concerns about the investigation of the agreement in the framework of the management of the new organism - small, because the presidents have already shown many times that they can cooperate, e.g. within the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union, the Community of Municipalities and Districts of the Central Region of Silesia and through many other voluntary associations and associations of local authorities in the region. However, existing forms of cooperation could not form a metropolis in the full sense of the word. They had integrative power, they were the place of exchange of opinions, decision-making on the division of tasks, decision on the priority of investment, but they did not have the power to integrate processes e.g. in the field of collective transport or spatial management. At the time of the entry into force of this law, this situation will change positively. For the modern idea of a metropolis is an idea of intensive development that is worth supporting. It is worth supporting not only in relation to the Silesian voivodship, but also other metropolitan organisms in Poland such as Warsaw, Wrocław, Tricity or Poznań. Each of these organisms has its own specific characteristics, which is why it would not always be justified to move directly from the legislation voted on today. This law is - let it be - a kind of pilot in this area. Observing the first experience of Silesian and subterranean local governments creating a metropolis for conurbations, i.e. cities of a dispersed nature, without a strict centre, we will be richer with knowledge which should be used to create solutions for a strictly defined center of agglomeration. The Modern Club, which is put to the vote, hopes for a quicker and more efficient delivery of public services to city dwellers, and therefore fully supports it and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u43	Thank you very much, Member. And Mr Krzysztof Paszik, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u44	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. First of all, I would like to point out that the Polish People's Party wants to create opportunities for development for Silesia, for inhabitants, wants to develop this region and supports this development, hence we are in favour of adopting this project. He is mostly facing these very things I have mentioned. We see that it assumes that the newly formed metropolitan union is to be an association of municipalities of the Śląskie voivodship characterized by strong functional links and the advancement of urbanization processes, located in a spatially coherent area that inhabits at least 2 million inhabitants. The Union is to carry out public tasks in the field of spatial governance, social and economic development, the area of planning, coordination and integration and the development of public collective transport, including road, rail and other rail transport, as well as sustainable urban mobility, metropolitan passenger transport, cooperation in determining the course of national and voivodeship roads in the area of the union and promoting the relationship and its area. In line with the intention expressed in the explanatory memorandum, the project is intended to carry out development, integration and coordination tasks while reducing the risks associated with the decommissioning and transformation of the organisations concerned so far. This will enable the adopted model of the union to allow for its evolutionary transformation on the basis of voluntary agreements on the taking over of municipal, district or voivodship tasks. If we were to point out any shortcomings in this project, after many conversations, consultations with the local government of the Silesian Voivodeship, which I had the pleasure of having several times in recent times - here I wanted to thank Vice-Marshal Stanisław Dąbrowa for these consultations - there is one problem. What do I mean? Namely, on the one hand, we have a number of actions that are intended to contribute to development, to improving the state of infrastructure, but we do not see that the resources to be used for this are sufficient. Just one very important example, i.e. It is extremely necessary to do so, from local authorities to voivodships, and it can be seen that from those measures which the law will provide for the metropolis, there will still be a great risk of not developing, not realizing this investment, which so far, was mainly implemented by the sumpt of local governments - local governments, regional government. The great expectations of these local authorities were linked to the fact that the measures which the agglomeration will have at its disposal under this law will, if not entirely, at least in some significant part, result in support for this investment. Turns out it doesn't look so pink. We note this when it comes to what has been raised in the local government for many years, so that, in the wake of some positive impulses that are written here in the act, measures can also follow. And in this case, It's not so obvious. That's what we're paying attention to. I think this is an element that could still be improved in the course of the work. And for this increase in resources dedicated to the agglomeration we would appeal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u45	Thank you very much. And Mr Stanisław Huskowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to speak on behalf of the circle of the European Union of Democrats for the second time on this draft law. During my first reading, I also took the floor and, in truth, the work in which I personally did not participate, but which I am familiar with and were involved in the joint committees, did not produce this result, which could be considered as optimal. On the one hand, in terms of the Śląskie voivodship and the metropolitan union of the Śląskie voivodship, this was largely refined. The bill was good in this area, it was refined. Some shortcomings have been highlighted by my previous speakers, in particular by Mr Marek Wójcik. But that's not what I want to focus on in particular. This law, which improves the Law of 9 October 2015 in the field of Silesian Voivodeship, is therefore good. However, the mother law, i.e. that of 2015, contained a number of shortcomings, shortcomings, and indeed based on it it would be difficult, in particular without implementing regulations, to establish a metropolis in the Śląskie voivodship or elsewhere. So this law makes it so to say, the satisfaction of the expectations of Silesians, while it harms all other inhabitants of potential metropolises. Such aspirations were reported by Krakowians, such signals were coming from Małopolska, Wielkopolska, Lower Silesia, and one can expect such expectations from the Pomeranian Voivodeship. This law at the same time closes the way with regard to these expectations, and gives them to fate, at the mercy of the Ministry and the Council of Ministers. This is not a good solution, because - I don't want to taunt here anymore, I did it at first reading - in some other way the Council of Ministers or the Law and Justice solve problems regarding metropolitan expectations when it comes to Warsaw or Opole. But this law, automatically taking away the opportunity of other environments to appoint metropolitan unions, gives enormous power to the Council of Ministers, which will decide each time whether a metropolitan area from the point of view of the Council of Ministers of the present ruling, and in the future of other ministerial councils, is good or bad, or whether a metropolitan union should be established e.g. Tricity and wider than the Tricity in Pomerania, whether it belongs to Wielkopolska, whether it belongs to Lower Silesia, etc. This is not a good solution, model was much better - it was from 9 October 2015. It was possible to work on improving this law, on eliminating certain shortcomings. As it seems, it is tabled by a group of Members in a minority proposal to restore the provisions of the Act of 9 October 2015. Our circle, of course, if such votes are held in the plenary room, will support this proposal. However, even without this proposal, although it is undoubtedly expected by many local authorities and residents of these other potential metropolitan areas, our circle will vote in favour of the entire law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u47	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. 10 members of the parliament have signed up for the vote. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. The first question is asked by Marian Zembala. You're welcome, sir. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of the Śląskie voivodship, I am very satisfied with this important project, beyond divisions. Do not be afraid, it will be a project, we can call it so calmly, Silesian, because in this difficult matter, like us, medical people, we say, a very transmitted pregnancy everything indicates that from 1 July we will have a healthy birth and we will observe how our newborn baby will develop and respond to the needs, as was said today, of the Silesian voivodeship government. This is a clear signal of multi-directional integration in improving not only communication, but also the entire social, industrial infrastructure, ending with the issue of health protection in a very important and difficult region. I express my admiration and appreciation for all those who have contributed to this, and I propose to treat it as a pilot project and look at it calmly. There will be a different specificity of other regions, the answers will appear soon, just look at the solutions of Rotterdam, which I followed, being there almost five years. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when answering questions, we should be talking today - and I am addressing the government - about the approximation of costs, so that this phenomenon also allows for rational planning. Thank you, Mr Marshal, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That's more like it. The birth is very close. As a doctor, I assure you he will be successful and healthy and expected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u49	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is an important bill, long awaited by the inhabitants of Silesia - Silesia, who should have had this law for at least a year. But I think that not only Silesia, because all the metropolises, all the areas heavily urbanized in Poland were waiting for this law to be able to integrate, to carry out their tasks together. Silesia is a special region in the country. We have in the Katowice agglomeration about 14, not about, but certainly 14 cities on the rights of the county, in the voivodship itself - 18. The area is heavily urbanised, so all the more so this law is needed, in order to be able to implement together over divisions, apart from the structures of specific municipalities or powiats, clearly common actions. Following this, one must say, there is also a great bonus of taking this cooperation - those 250 million PLN, which the Silesian Voivodeship already lost in the last year, because the law which could have entered could have already functioned, in some way it was either cancelled or corrected. Minister, I'd like to ask you one thing. We talked about the fact that actually any municipality can join this union, to join this metropolis. What about the other side? In our law, the Civic Platform, it was possible to expand or decrease, i.e. to increase the number of municipalities. In this case, we're just talking about entering a metropolitan union and there's no way out. Is that the truth? Secondly, I wanted to ask you, we are talking about many metropolitan areas in Poland, how the government intends to specifically approach other metropolitan areas. We've already written a few more laws today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How is the government going to handle this case? And the next question is, where did this threshold of PLN 2 million come from? Isn't that gonna limit it, discourage the creation of other metropolitan areas in the country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u51	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u52	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that the idea of a metropolis in the Silesian agglomeration has a chance to materialize this year and that all parliamentary clubs agree to support this bill. I have a question for the Minister. In one of the TV debates at the end of February, just about the metropolitan union, President Jaworzna appealed to the representative of the government who was present at this debate, Deputy Minister of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik, to include a representative of the government in the governing bodies of the metropolitan area. And the question is: Does the government consider such solutions? In my view, they would be a strong interference and a kind of central government attack on the independence of local government and decisions taken by regional and local authorities, it would be the participation of a specific government commissioner in the metropolitan authorities. And the second question: Is the government considering scenarios of including municipalities that will not adopt resolutions on accession to the metropolitan area, contrary to their will in the scope of the metropolitan union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u53	Thank you, sir. Mr Sitarski, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As regards the debate on the metropolitan union, I wanted to ask questions about costs. What will be the cost of creating a metropolis? Who estimated them? That's one thing. Another question: What will be the titled boss, the leader of this union? Is there any form that will eventually be practiced there? And one more thing: creating a new bureaucracy. Isn't there going to be some kind of duplication between the relationship and the cities? The point is simply that full correlation, cooperation in favour of the common Silesia is seen as far as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u55	Thank you. Ma'am Małgorzata Navelek, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Already during the joint meeting of the committee, the issue of leaving the possibility for the municipality to leave the union in the formal law was raised. This is, in all, important from the point of view of cities and border communities, which should be encouraged to be part of the metropolis. It is in this area that there are doubts that joining the metropolis is a one-way decision. In the event of a deterioration in the situation of the municipality in the metropolitan area, it will not be able to give up its co-creation in any way. The committee stated on the part of the Ministry's representative that it was necessary to ensure the sustainability of the metropolitan union. But I do have a lot of attention. Perhaps it would be useful to consider such procedures, so that the presence of any of the cities of the union is possible, obviously tightened with appropriate rigors and extended over time. I would like the representatives of the Ministry who have developed the project to consider this proposal, unless the case has been thoroughly consulted with all Silesian cities and all these cities have agreed to the proposed solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u57	Thank you, Member. Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law, which today is the second reading, is certainly a solution that has been expected for a long time, as evidenced by the fact that in 2015 the majority of the Parliament, the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL, has already passed the law. Today's bill, the draft law, states that that law is no longer in force. But when you look at the content, you can actually say that to a very large extent it is a repetition. Sometimes there are certain different phrases or names, but it's... In fact, the basis was that bill, and I would say that you could even be tempted to say that the project bears some signs of plagiarism. Of course, in the case of the government, it would be very rude if the government did so. That's one thing. Second - I have a question: What were the real reasons for, first, that general law to be converted into a law only for Silesia? 'Cause it was enough... Even if it was necessary to change some provisions, it should have been done in the form of an amendment to the law and left the possibility for the other regions. The rest of the regions will again struggle with the fact that everyone will try to live up to new rules or similar principles, and it seems that the functioning of the state should be based on certain systemic solutions rather than individual ones. And one last question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 41 is the provision that the acquisition of property by a metropolitan union is carried out on the basis of an agreement with the municipalities. It seems that the transfer of rights in kind is not just a matter of agreement. ♪ I'm going on ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] is that it is a law on real estate management, etc., but is the wording correct and correct? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u59	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Skutecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u60	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a few questions. First of all, you spoke in the campaign about the so-called. sustainable development. Now you are betting on two locomotives, which are to attract Poland to prosperity, i.e. Warsaw and Silesia. Why this change in perception of Poland's development opportunities? Another question. In the October 2015 law mentioned here by many Members there were clearly defined criteria for the creation of metropolitan unions. Many cities have adopted this law with enthusiasm, she has awakened a great deal of hope. You can have that impression, I have that impression, for example. By the Law and Justice, they feel simply deceived. Minister, tell me what I'm supposed to tell the Bydgoszcz people that it's changed so much. Another question in connection with the same issue. How do you want to build a state of law, a state of trust in the law and the government, if within a few months, a dozen months so radically change your vision of Poland's development? Please answer these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u61	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is obvious, as the classic has already said, that a good law is a law which regulates certain issues which are important for the life of citizens, which are important for the functioning of the state. And here we are undoubtedly dealing with regulation of a systemic nature, although at regional or local level, but still. And my concerns and questions relate to the Kazuistic treatment only of the so-called. the case of Silesian. But wouldn't it be better to go back to system solutions - after all, these internal solutions in this law duplicate them - which would allow for creating agglomerations where there is need and where conditions are created, also on a voluntary basis? The only difference between the situation in Upper Silesia and the agglomeration compared to other aspiring solutions is that this relationship, this location, these links are polycentric. And that's basically the only difference between you and the others. However, as the current power has been decided, the current majority has decided that this will only apply to Silesian solutions, it is the question on which basis this two million threshold was calculated. Wouldn't it be better to follow the path - when we're just talking about this one case, it's not a general criterion - functional criteria of connections, not just statistical-quantitative criteria? And I also wanted to ask you when [[♪ The bell ♪]] we can expect regulation for other agglomerations, which may be of a different nature, but similar needs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u63	Thank you. Mr Richard Galla. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Last year, Minister Zieliński, at one of the meetings of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, informed Members of the implementation of the metropolitan law of the previous term, stated that the Ministry, the government, is working to prepare a draft law that would treat local governments more widely, among others. smaller cities. I'm not hiding that I'd also like to ask you about Opole here. Today we are practically investigating a project, which is a detailed law concerning the Silesian metropolis. It is a good thing that we are doing this, but I would like to ask whether the government is working to prepare a universal law that could also apply to smaller cities - I am returning to Opole again - and if so, when such a law would have a chance to appear. I ask this because in the previous term many cities took up the so-called. The initiative to create agglomerations and some cities participated together with the Ministry in the preparation of a document that could regulate these issues. To this day we do not have any knowledge about this, and I do not hide that, looking at the experiences of Opole just last year, certainly such a law would be useful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u65	Thank you. And you will be the last to speak by Mr Szczerba. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u66	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! During the discussion of the metropolitan union law in the Śląskie voivodship, I would like to draw attention to one article, to the article. 62. This article in the Parliamentary draft of Law and Justice reads: The Law of 9 October 2015 on metropolitan unions is losing effect. Ladies and gentlemen, in your parliamentary project, you assume that the law on metropolitan unions, which is expected by local governments and residents across the country, will cease to function. How does that apply to art? 2 constitutions, the principle of a democratic rule of law, which results in citizens' confidence in the state, also in the quality and predictability of the law? High Izbo! On 10 March 2016, exactly a year ago, Mr Marek Wójcik and Mr Jan Grabiec asked the government a question on the issue of implementing acts for the metropolitan union law. You said exactly a year ago: we are finishing work on implementing acts. And what do you do through your parliamentary majority in the parliamentary project, Mr applicant, reporter? You're shutting down the metropolitan union bill. This is an outrage. This scandal needs attention. It is necessary to pay attention to how the Law and Justice treats Polish local governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u67	Thank you. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Sebastian Chwałk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking both the combined committees, which worked very well and quite quickly, in substance carried out the entire bill, and of course all those who took an active part in the drafting of this bill, representatives of the local authorities from Upper Silesia, who are interested in joining this union, headed by President Marcin Krupa, President Katowice, President Zabrz Małgorzata Manka-Szulik, who is also the president of the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union, and all Members who leaned over this law with great commitment. Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government came out of philosophy that the only right solution is to draw up a law dedicated to the Silesian metropolis. This specific organism composed of many similar cities, cities on the rights of the county, requires the preparation of a specific solution. The case of a conglomerate, one can say which, in terms of size, there is no possibility of repeating itself throughout our country, also required such an approach. Hence the philosophy which was adopted was the creation of a dedicated law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. Today, during this second reading, from the mouth of the representatives presenting the conclusions, presenting the positions of the clubs, we could hear what we have been repeating for months - that this previous project, which was supposed to provide the possibility of creating, among others, the possibility of creating. Metropolitan union in Upper Silesia, was flawed and did not really give the possibility to actually create this relationship. This law finally, you can say, eliminates all the shortcomings and doubts that have arisen, creates clear criteria that have been developed together with the local authorities interested in joining this union. I will answer a few questions at the same time, among others. about this size, about 2 million inhabitants. This size stems, first, from the fact that both the government and the local governments wanted the metropolis to be a strong, strong, vibrant organism, secondly, because this number of inhabitants was agreed de facto with representatives of local governments, because only a strong entity is able to raise enough funds to be able to develop in terms of these specific tasks that will be carried out by the metropolis. As far as the possibility of joining and leaving is concerned, we know what it looks like. As for the exit, the project does not really assume such a possibility, but it was also, so to speak, agreed with the local authorities, because both in our opinion, the government, the ministry and in the assessment of all those interested who look forward to the possibility of creating this metropolis, every single entity's exit even with - one can say - the outskirts, and even more from the middle of the metropolis causes huge complications. The integration processes started and the connections that would arise during the creation of the metropolis would necessarily have to shake the entire metropolis, hence the voluntary accession. This accession should be thought over by every local government, but I think that today the majority of those concerned are very convinced, and in all these local governments work is already underway before the beginning of this final phase - joining the metropolis. In fact, it is not possible at the moment, however, if time shows that it is necessary, then Parliament always has the opportunity to amend the laws and criteria that would be necessary so that really someone who does not give himself in this environment, in this new self-government piece, can appear. But I think I can safely assure you that this is not the case. All those who enter this relationship will surely appreciate him so to speak, the virtues, and they will certainly never want to leave this framework. There was a question about Jaworzno. It's voluntary, no one's forcing anyone to join the union. Even if Jaworzno does not participate, he will not express his wish to join, I think that there will be no problem with it, no one will force anyone to do so with a warrant, a ban or anything, so that here to your fellow Members: please be calm in this matter. And the question was, "What's the name of the metropolitan chief?" It will be the union president, the union board president, chosen of course from among... As to how disputes between municipalities and metropolitan areas will be resolved, let us remember that the transfer of each competence takes place on the basis of agreements between the municipality and the metropolitan area, so if the municipalities communicate, I see no problems and as if there is no scope for any disputes of competence. There was also a question, here Mr Lassota mentioned it - a possible plagiarism of the law. Firstly, it can certainly be concluded that the draft laws are not subject to copyright. Secondly, sometimes the comma is of great importance. I think that a few years ago, a dozen or so ago, one committee of inquiry has strongly indicated that one word is very important, so often a similar text provides diametrically different solutions. I don't think you can hit that much here. As to the question of whether the government has changed its position on sustainable development, I will answer: no, it has not. The document, the strategic document.Sustainability strategy, makes it clear what are the criteria or what are the basics and elements that we take into account when thinking about the development of the country as a whole. Mr Galla mentioned... His question sounded in a similar tone. For other centres, of course, the strategy assumes different mechanisms, different instruments, different instruments, not always legislative instruments, they can also be financial instruments. At the moment, regulations that shape, create or speak of local governments, which speak about how they work, lay down different arrangements for cooperation. In my view, in many, many cities, which, as it rained here, pretend to create a metropolis or to be interested in it, it is possible to use other solutions calmly for the time being, certainly not all possibilities have been exhausted. In our opinion at the moment in Poland we have really two large centres, which can quietly be called metropolises, it is the Silesian metropolis and, as it has already rained here, the Warsaw metropolis. They are, you can say, already prepared for this name to be held calmly. As far as Silesia is concerned, soon - I hope that by the end of the week - Parliament will accept this bill calmly, then the Senate, the President will be able to sign it and we will all witness a very important event both for Silesia and for the whole country. At this point we will be able to say that all these barriers which appeared in Silesia due to its construction, urban specificity, will be overcome. I think I've exhausted most of the questions. [[The metropolitan union bill.]] Yeah, the metropolitan union bill expires. As I said, we have adopted the idea that the better solution is to create an individual law for a particular organism, the specificity of each organism is different and we do not provide for a complementary law for all. Thank you. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, and a government representative. Yeah, actually, that's the question. Due to the fact that the voivode is at the same time the supervisory authority of local governments, it is unlikely that this possibility is at the moment... So he controls himself, in my opinion he should not control, it is a self-government entity, and so far he should remain. If there are possible needs during operation, we can think about this topic, but we do not see the need. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u69	Thank you, Minister. And I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Jerzy Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Literally a few comments from me as rapporteur for the questions that have been addressed to the government here. Some of my comments will once again be such a shortcut and a repetition of the argument concerning this specific solution for the Śląskie voivodship. Firstly, I would like to point out to ladies and gentlemen that the set of instruments contained in the draft law on the creation of a metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship, which is intended to facilitate the management of cities, in the case of Silesia of dozens of cities on the rights of the county, is very well-diagnosed by the government, to the extent that the particular urban and administrative structure of this Silesian conurbation is emphasized here. Therefore, the expectation that the same instruments which have been included in the Act, which is repealed by this law on the creation of a metropolitan union, serve to metropolitanise other areas, this is a misunderstanding. I would like to remind you that - except maybe Warsaw - postulates or, let's say, some public statements concerning metropolitan initiatives sometimes refer primarily to a centralised structure, where there is one central, dominant city, which is surrounded by small municipalities. This is a completely different situation than in the area we have in Silesia, in the part of Silesian Voivodeship - several cities on the rights of the county around the capital of the region, which is Katowice. I would also like to stress that the instruments contained in the law, in quotes, in Silesia, dedicated to this area, are an expected response for many years to these huge and specific problems of the region, which cannot be ignored, because on the basis of these various sentiments they were and are built of various kinds, in quotes, quasi-recepts to return to sometimes very intimately understood, historically functioning solutions. Third note. I also want to write very strongly to make it sound very clear that, because we have a shortage of statutory instruments for integrating development policy in the area of cities strongly linked to each other, from the point of view, I would say infrastructure, road, you can say, building intensity, etc., despite this fact, we also have very large disparities in the area of Silesian cities. This has not been said at second reading, but I would point out that even in those cities that will be covered by the metropolitan union, there is a difference, a discrepancy in the scale of unemployment, that is, it can be said, on the extreme example, from 5 and 6 points e.g. in Katowice up to 17% in Bytom. So that this law, by giving some tools to build a balance in development, integration and cooperation, above all at the statutory level, is also intended to abolish these differences - it is about a certain, I would say, balance in investment, in a closer, integrated area of combating unemployment or equalising quality and standard of living. These are issues that are very strongly highlighted by local governments of Silesian agglomerations and Zagłębian cities that participate in this project. And it is worth noting that this government project is also an expression of full confidence in this process, which has already taken place in the last dozen years. After all, it is worth noting in this public debate that even in the 1990s, without having in the current legal conditions the local government solutions which were subsequently introduced in 1999 and earlier, in the mid-1990s, in the former Katowice voivodeship, in order to respond in any way to this rapidly changing social and economic situation, the government concluded a contract for the Katowice voivodship, which is worth recalling today in this debate. To sum up, the law on the creation of a metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship creates very durable, stable and above all rational perspectives for this area and is thinking about the future, is thinking about the common good. We are talking about a major legislative proposal that integrates more than 2 million people. If we make simplified proposals for this, you can say, a very significant population limit, I imagine that, for example. In the same agglomeration of Silesian cities, at least two metropolitan unions could be established, and that is not the case. We are talking about a high population threshold, above all, so that it is adequate for this dimension of public tasks to be designated under this law, dedicated to the Silesian voivodship. Referring, for example, to a very close example of transport, I would like to point out that we are talking about integrating the whole of public transport: and bus transport, speaking in simplification and rail, we are talking about metropolitan rail, we are also talking about building intelligent transport systems - this mobility that allows better use of infrastructure, as well as tools such as legal cooperation within the framework of the relationship when it comes to investment projects. One of his colleagues asked about the example of the Road Diameter Route, which could have been continued in the eastern direction of the cities of Zagłęgów. This is a classic example of an investment that actually never had a real host, because over a dozen years it has always been used here, I would say, a prosthetic: once it coordinated the task of the road route as, let's say, a tool, or a company carrying out this project, it once passed to the level of the marshal, the seymium, etc., etc. Many of these examples could be shown. To conclude, once again, I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen speaking in the debate during the committee's work today. The broad political support of all parliamentary clubs that have publicly supported this government initiative is also a very natural response to the fact that the Metropolis project in the Silesian voivodeship is a dissected, mature, non-enhancing project with support over party divisions, which also expresses something that is very strong in Silesia, i.e. the need to build a community in a highly integrated centre. Let us wish for success here, because we are talking about an important place on the map of Poland, about an area very strongly, I would say, integrated, of course also building the future of a part of the Polish economy, about strong, positive social values. Let us wish for success in the implementation of this project, which I hope will be adopted in Parliament in a few dozen hours. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u71	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. As amendments to the proposed bill were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in respect of certain public registers (print No 1305). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization of Mr Marek Zagórski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers, which I am pleased to present, was developed jointly by the Ministry of Digitisation and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and introduces changes that will enable citizens to handle a number of official matters in a simpler and easier way through the use of ICT systems. The starting point for drawing up this project, as well as other changes expressed by the government in this area, is that, since the State has collected in public systems certain information about the citizen, his situation or rights and obligations, it should use them of its own motion and not burden him with the obligation to provide certificates for these circumstances. It is worth recalling that according to the article. 220 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, a public administration body may not require a certificate or a statement of fact or legal status, if it is known to the body of its own motion, to be established by the authority on the basis of its records of registers or other data, public registers held by other public entities to which it has access, and as a result of the exchange of information with another public body. Unfortunately, this practice and, above all, the experience of citizens show that these principles are actually applied differently and sometimes they are not applied. The aim of the government, and in particular the Minister for Digitalisation, is to organise the ICT systems in which public registers are kept in order to maximise the efficiency of day-to-day handling by citizens using electronic means. The submitted project involves rebureaucratizing several procedures: from information about the number of collected so-called. Penalty points in the driver's account to formalise family benefits proceedings. The bill consists of two parts. The first includes changes to the road traffic legislation in the area of: firstly, allowing the Internet to check the number of points assigned to the driver for the infringements committed, secondly, allowing free access to vehicle data collected in the central vehicle register to the environmental inspection bodies and, finally, the changes necessary for the smooth operation of the CEPiK system, including. by adding the possibility to collect data on referrals to medical and psychologically tested persons who hold or have withdrawn power to drive motor vehicles, persons who are not entitled to drive the vehicle who have committed an infringement and persons who are not entitled to a criminal measure in the form of a ban on driving. We propose that information on the number of criminal points be made available after authentication of the data subject with a trusted profile on the ePUAP platform. As part of this e-service, the user concerned will be presented with up-to-date information about the points so-called. final assigned for infringements of traffic rules on the basis of the final judgment of the court, the criminal mandate, the order of the court on the conditional dismissal of proceedings or the judgment of the court on the infringement in disciplinary proceedings, as well as the so-called paragraphs. temporary, i.e. those that will ultimately be assigned in case of confirmation of an infringement by a final decision. At this stage, e-service will not present the data of the person whose driving rights have been revoked, who has been banned from driving or whose points have expired. In addition, the project provides for free access to vehicle data collected in the central vehicle register to environmental inspection bodies. This is a response to the demands of inspections in this area, which include, inter alia, carrying out the tasks set out in the rules on international shipments of waste. Among the reported cases of illegal shipments of waste there are numerous cases of illegal exports of waste in the form of vehicles from Poland, as well as waste from these vehicles. In the case of exports of such waste abroad, the liability for its illegal movement shall be borne by the seller of a vehicle under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Poland. It is therefore important that the Chief Environmental Inspector has the data, the data of the last owner of the vehicle, which will enable proceedings to be conducted in this respect. Otherwise, the costs associated with the proper management of the retained waste will have to be borne by the Chief Environmental Officer, which follows from the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on shipments of waste. In addition, on the basis of Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 20 January 2005 on the Recycling of End-of-Life Vehicles, the Chief Environmental Inspector shall conduct administrative proceedings in matters relating to the clearance of entities introducing vehicles from the obligation to provide a collection network. In the above proceedings, the Chief Environmental Inspector assumes that the introduction of a vehicle for the purpose of settlement of the lack of network charge shall take place at the time of the sale of the vehicle. It is therefore necessary to fix the date of first registration of vehicles introduced into the territory of the country. The amendment allows the main environmental inspector to obtain this data from the central vehicle register. The second, no less important, part of the project are changes in the rules on the implementation of family benefits, social assistance benefits, maintenance fund benefits, educational benefits and the Large Family Charter. The first facilitations for family benefits and maintenance fund benefits were introduced in 2016. They do not require applicants to accompany their application for income certificates or disability certificates. The authorities granting these benefits themselves through the electronic systems shall obtain the necessary information in this respect from the relevant registers. These arrangements have also been adopted in relation to the educational provision. When submitting this proposal, we propose that the next step be made available to the authorities performing the benefits to the family of further registers in order to determine their own rights to individual benefits. The real change that results from the bill submitted is that the family will not have to join the proposal, e.g. children's education certificates at school or high school. Following the entry into force of the provisions, it will be sufficient for the applicant to make an appropriate statement in this regard. Such a solution will also significantly reduce the bureaucratic burden on schools, since it will avoid the need for them to issue certificates. We estimate that the entry into force of these rules will result in the number of requests to the educational information system to reach around 2700 000 in the course of the year. This shows the scale of certification, which in other cases today schools must and must issue to those who apply for family benefits. At the same time, in order to eliminate irregularities, the authority determining the right to individual benefits by electronic means, through the IT systems of the Minister responsible for Family Affairs, shall obtain information from the individual registers to verify the correctness of the statements made. The detailed arrangements proposed in the draft law are to allow independent access to: educational information system - to bodies granting family benefits, maintenance fund benefits, the Large Family Charter and the provision of education, the central list of insured persons - to bodies granting family benefits, maintenance fund benefits and education benefits, data collected in the insured person's account and the payer's account of contributions under social security rules - to bodies granting family benefits, social assistance benefits, maintenance fund benefits and educational benefits, as well as the PESEL register - to bodies granting the Large Family Card and the EXMOoN system - to bodies granting the Large Family Card. In addition, it is envisaged that the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy can obtain access to the data contained in those registers in order to monitor how these benefits are implemented by the competent authorities. We also propose that the authorities carrying out the provision of information on the accounting of a person from personal income tax should be able to verify compliance with the condition of residence in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We want the law to enter into force on 1 July 2017, with the exception of the provisions on the online exercise of the possibility of checking the number of points received by the driver for traffic violations committed, because we want these provisions to enter into force on 1 April 2017 - this is a matter of such importance that the number of persons who, unfortunately, exceed the rules of road traffic law in the course of the year is close to 3.5 million, and this is a service generally expected - secondly, the provisions concerning the transmission by the Police of information to the central register of drivers of data collected in the register of drivers violating traffic regulations - we want this change to enter into force on the day following the date of the announcement - the rules for obtaining information from the educational information system by the Minister responsible for family affairs information necessary to determine the right to benefits for monitoring these benefits - we want these provisions to enter into force 14 days after the announcement - and finally the amendments to the Act on the educational information system for which it was foreseen to enter into force on 1 January 2018 due to the need to adapt the software also to the revised structure of schools. In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Witold Czarnecki, who will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present to the High House a position on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers, Parliamentary printing No 1305. More generally, the bill concerns the introduction of changes enabling the citizen to deal with a whole range of public administration issues without having to leave the house, i.e. through ICT systems, but not only. These changes are the next step in the implementation of the government project from paper to digital Poland, coordinated by the Minister of Digitization. The government project proposes changes to a whole range of laws covering two areas. The first area covers traffic regulations, while the second one covers the implementation of various types of benefits, including family benefits, social assistance benefits, maintenance, health benefits, educational benefits or benefits under the Large Family Charter. As far as area one is concerned, the project creates a legal framework for e-services for citizens to check online up-to-date information on the data collected in the central register of drivers. The intended service and the scope of the data to be provided shall correspond to the scope of the data which are included in the certificates issued by the Police when the driver requests such a certificate directly to the Police. The draft law also allows free access to vehicle data collected in the central vehicle register to environmental inspection bodies. The Chief Environmental Inspector has repeatedly requested access to data in connection with the illegal shipment of waste in the form of vehicles or parts thereof, but has until now been unauthorised to obtain data and information collected in the central vehicle register, thereby preventing him from carrying out his statutory duties. So much for area one. As far as area two is concerned - let's call it the area of benefits - it includes changes in 10 laws. It's worth remembering. These are the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation, the Act on Social Insurance, the Act on Family Benefits, the Act on Social Assistance, the Act on Health Care, the Law on Higher Education, the Act on Assistance to Persons with Child Support, the Act on the System of Educational Information, the Act on the Charter of the Large Family and the Law on State Aid to Raising Children. The nature of the proposed changes is a radical reduction in the number of certificates required, which must be attached to the applicant's application each time. Individual bodies carrying out various types of benefits, e.g. family, educational, health, resulting from the Charter of the Large Family, will have independent access to the information needed, as Mr Zagórski said extensively. As a result, citizens will not have to obtain this information on their own, which will, of course, reduce the bureaucratic burden in this regard. Mr Zagórski spoke very comprehensively about the details. I will conclude by saying that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law submitted by the government to amend certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers, Parliamentary printing No 1305. The parliamentary club supports this government project in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u75	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paul Arndt, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, We are beginning to work on a draft law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers. As my predecessors have already said here, the Act provides for changes that will enable citizens to deal with a number of matters with public administration through ICT systems. These matters are contained in two areas, and these are two types of cases. The first type of case is related to the possibility of checking the number of points assigned to the driver for the infringements committed by the Internet, and the second is related to matters relating to the widely understood welfare benefits. It is possible to exempt citizens from the need to attach a number of certificates or documents to the application. This applies e.g. benefits from the maintenance fund, educational benefits or the Large Family Charter. And this is certainly a good direction for change. Such changes must certainly be supported. In fact, public administration matters are increasingly being dealt with on the Internet and we are not going to run away from it. On the other hand, the Act amends the Road Traffic Act and, on the other hand, 10 social assistance laws. The first reflection that occurred to me during the reading of this law is whether, in order to be sure, we must involve the entire state apparatus, the government, the parliament, so that the driver can read through the Internet how many points he received for exceeding the rules. Recently, statistical information has appeared on how many pieces of legislation we are actually adopting. There's more and more of them. Poland is the leading country in this area and we have nothing to brag about here. In particular, in 2016 these legal acts were particularly numerous. I think it might be worth wondering if there's some other way to deal with it in the future. The second reflection, which follows the reading of the bill, concerns the pace of work. The Minister was talking about it. The Act is generally to enter into force on 1 July 2017, except that some of its provisions are to enter into force earlier, among others. the possibility of reading the number of penalty points, and this would take place on 1 April. I do not know if there is a legitimate need for the driver to have to learn about the number of points already on April 1 and this is linked to some extraordinary pace of work on the bill. Here again statistics show that we as Parliament are working less and less on laws, and this certainly does not serve to establish good law. So I think it's worth a little longer to work on this law, but it doesn't necessarily have to come into force, at least in the area we're talking about on April 1. If the drivers find out about this on May 1st or June 1st, I don't think it's gonna happen either. However, what is important is that time is needed, all the more so because there are some aspects worth considering. The General Data Protection Officer has prepared a special letter indicating that some aspects of the bill should be dealt with. Already in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, the Data Protection Officer recalls, here I quote, that any processing of personal data should be planned taking into account the concept of privacy protection in terms of design. Indeed, even today we have received a letter from the General Data Protection Officer, who in the conclusions again calls on the projector to examine the planned solutions in depth, while reserveing the possibility to submit further comments on the project. Indeed, these further comments will probably be required to ensure that all the reservations raised by the General Data Protection Officer are implemented in some way. Speaking on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that the project be addressed to the relevant [[♪ The bell ♪]] the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u77	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in connection with the proposal submitted to the High House for a law amending certain laws in relation to the tasks of public administrations in relation to certain public registers. According to the reasons attached to this draft law, with which it is appropriate to fully agree, the proposed law provides for amendments which enable citizens to deal with a number of matters requiring public administration without having to leave the house, i.e. by means of or through ICT systems. The proposed changes concern inter alia. traffic regulations. Here is the possibility to check the number of criminal points held by the driver via the Internet. It is also about provisions relating to the implementation of various family and assistance benefits, e.g. providing information from different systems, which exempts citizens from adding additional documents to their applications, e.g. School or college education certificates. They also concern the revision of the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers regulations, e.g. as regards the data to be collected in the central register of drivers. This includes e.g. full details of the infringement, including the vehicle concerned: type, brand, model, registration number. It's a traffic violation. The project provides for free access to vehicle data collected in the central vehicle register to environmental inspection bodies. In addition, the project includes a number of changes resulting from the 1997 analysis of the Law on Road Traffic in the 2015 version, which are necessary for the smooth start of the still under preparation and not introduced by the CEPiK 2.0 system. It belongs to them, among others. additional referral to medical, psychological examinations, the data of which will be collected together with data from persons with authority or who have been withdrawn from driving rights, persons who are not entitled to drive, who have committed infringements of the provisions of the Act or who have been banned from driving. The proposed amendments are intended to increase access rights to the above mentioned. data from organisations such as, for example, The Environmental Protection Inspection - you have mentioned more about this need, the Minister - and the bodies determining the right to family benefits or assistance, which, according to the justification of this project, is also to be agreed, to reduce the bureaucratic burden for citizens. This applies to the data of the educational information system, the central list of insured persons, the data collected in the insured account and the account of the payer of the contributions under the social security scheme, respectively the authorities granting family benefits from the maintenance fund, assistance fund, etc., access to the PESEL register and the EXMOoN system - this access is for authorities granting e.g. The Large Family Charter and access to these data are also foreseen for the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Citizens will not in this situation be forced to obtain their own income certificates at the tax offices, to collect copies of civil status certificates or to submit disability certificates. This project is, of course, compatible with EU law. I abstract on how much data we are collecting right now, because this is actually a problem, as far as you start crossing this border of citizen surveillance through data collection, the idea of the law itself is as valid and expected by citizens as it limits bureaucracy, limits the time that citizens have to devote to dealing with various kinds of issues. Indeed, it is appropriate to agree that this solution is expected by Poles and is of the utmost help. For these reasons, Kukiz15 will, of course, vote in favour of directing the bill to further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u79	Thank you, sir. Mr Maciej Masłowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u80	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As my previous speaker, Mr Józwiak, has already said, yes, we very much support this project, and we are glad that the other clubs, too, hopefully all, support this project. This is where the state's computerization should go. I will also agree with my previous speaker, Mr Arndt, that sometimes, perhaps, it is too fast, for example. that we'll be able to check these points from April, but on the other hand, well, we've been waiting for this for so many years, and it's definitely deserved. Given the fact that, for example, as the Minister said, 2,600 000 are expected. school certificates, and now you can download such a certificate through the system, that's what you need. That is why I am pleased that we will work on this in committee, and, as my colleague said, we will of course vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u81	Thank you. Mr Paweł Pudłowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u82	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Since you have already heard several times about what is in the bill, I will allow myself to skip this part of my speech and focus on the fact that only this morning we received a document from GIODO. I will return to the subject that Mr Arndt, Vice-President of the Digital Commission, has taken up. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to establish a good law, we need time, we need dialogue and we need dialogue. Otherwise, unfortunately, as in the Millary song, nothing that direction right, a bumpy road. What is this opinion of GIODO? It is worth mentioning a few things. It's negative, that's important too. Firstly, there are great concerns about the security of the transfer or transfer of personal data. It is known that any such transmission or transmission on a different medium of these data creates a risk that these data will leak, risk that hackers who are interested in this data will have access to it. I do not know if you remember, in 2013, the Łódź police stopped a hacker who sold 130 records containing among others. PESEL, for 54 grand. zł. The temptation is great. It is worth noting that the proposed bill does not contain specific forms of protection for these data, which is a pity, and we will want to work on this in the committee. Secondly, what is the role of the proper Minister for Family Affairs? Is the designer's intention to be a data administrator or to be a system administrator? This creates legal consequences, relevant to what the Ministry, and to what extent it will be able to deal with. Another thing worth paying attention to is the status of the voivodship, which obtains the right to process data and access actually all central registers. The question is whether this is necessary, whether he needs such direct, complete access in his work or not. Another thing that GIODO draws attention to is art. The 7th Constitution, which requires that not only the agreement but the legal act should be governed by such matters as are to be agreed in the proposed bill, between the NFZ and the Minister of the Family, we refer to the agreement and yet the article. 7 requires legal bases. This, of course, is everything to be done and to be corrected, but we need time for that. The proposed rules also do not provide for a mechanism to control access to registers, and this creates the increased risk mentioned at the beginning of my speech, in my opinion, the temptation to unfortunately leak these records. Remember, in August last year, the Ministry of Digitalization asked the prosecutor's office to see if the collection of personal data by bailiffs - I would remind you that it was 1.4 million records - was justified. We've all been living in such horror for a few days, which means, because you realize that if PESEL and the details, personal data are in the wrong hands, you can really do that. take bank credit and expose many residents, citizens of our country to very unpleasant consequences. You yourself pointed out that if a citizen has reasonable doubts as to whether his or her personal data has already been leaked or if they are not in the possession of an unauthorised person, he or she should come forward and make sure that it is so. In conclusion, as you can imagine, modern is definitely in favour of our country becoming more modern. We believe that the bill is coming out, heading in this direction, that is to say, giving access to citizens and other than those currently in possession of these data, ministries or institutions, and this simplifies and simplifies the scope. We note, however, that these data must be properly protected and that such a law-making process that assures us that they are protected is appropriate and that all those institutions to which you give these rights are properly empowered are very important. So I'm asking for patience, and we're counting on the committee to work on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u83	Thank you, sir. You, Mr Paszyk and Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, have made their speeches on behalf of the club and the circles in writing. Let's get to the questions. Mr Paweł Bańkowski is the first question to be asked. There you go, two minutes for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u84	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum of the bill indicates that one of the objectives of the amendment is to combine the various state registers, which is to allow the authorities to deal with the matter more quickly and that citizens to settle the matter without leaving the house. However, it should be borne in mind that any processing of personal data should be planned taking into account the concept of privacy protection in the design phase, and that the principle that public authorities cannot collect, collect or make available information about citizens other than those necessary in a democratic legal state is also set out in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 constitutions. We all remember recent controversies concerning the collection of data by bailiffs from the PESEL register, which confirm that access to public registers online should be strictly regulated and periodically monitored in order to prevent possible abuse. And my question is this: Do the provisions of this law provide sufficient protection for the personal data of citizens and do they provide sufficient control of access to public registers to prevent the collection of personal data in an emergency, for backup and to prevent any abuse in this area? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u85	Thank you. Mr Stefan Rometki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no doubt that the solutions proposed in the project are good. Any change that can make life easier for citizens deserves approval. I am, however, concerned by the revision of the provisions of the Large Family Charter Act and the fact that the processing of data will take place in a wider range than is apparent from the current legal situation. The criteria for granting the benefit remain unchanged and the extension of the catalogue of processed data is disproportionate and inadequate. So I would like to ask: Why should data be processed that are not needed to provide the benefit? In addition: Does the designer envisage a re-examination of the proposed solutions in terms of the security of citizens' personal data? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[See, Stefan, the platform claps you.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u87	Thank you. Mr Paweł Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're discussing a government project. The government project, as it should have been, was subject to public consultation. It follows from the justification of the Act that the two institutions submitted their comments. The first is the General Data Inspector, and this is what we have talked about here quite a lot, but there is another institution that has submitted its comments - it is the Polish Security Printing Works. However, unfortunately, there is no mention of what these comments were in the explanatory memorandum of the Act. Could the Minister give us a closer look at these comments here? My second question concerns the financial consequences of this law. How much will it cost to implement these rules? Again, it follows from the justification of the Act that as regards this part concerning the Road Traffic Act, it will be financed from the special purpose fund of CEPiK and will cost 429 thousand. zł. On the other hand, as far as the entire section on social welfare is concerned, at least I did not find such information in the justification of the bill. I'd appreciate it if the Minister brought this up to speed, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u89	Mrs Iwona Michalek. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, this is a very important, necessary and expected project, because it will really make life easier for many people. However, I have two questions. As far as the solutions proposed in the Act are safe because of the protection of so-called. sensitive data? This is the first one. And the second question is, did the Ministry of Digitalization consider the possibility of making this information available to insurance companies, which say that it would allow for the reduction of travel insurance contributions to those car users, motorbikes, who drive safely? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u91	Thank you. And Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The aim of the bill, which is to make it easier for citizens to handle their affairs in different public institutions, is absolutely right. But I would like to join the vote on a case that is raised very often here, namely the security of personal data protection or the security of personal data - more so. However, I have a question about precisely this security, about the security of the data contained in the public registers. The General Data Protection Officer shall have observations in this respect. This is a very important signal that data can be made available for other purposes, mainly business purposes, which we are dealing with very often. Why does the project not include control mechanisms for access to registers? And what we're talking about in the project is a very weak security. This poses a high risk of abuse, and I think we should point out clearly the dangers at stake. It is important to consider this seriously before the bill is passed, not after the law enters into force, because it will be simply too late when the data is simply leaked from these registers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u93	Thank you. And Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u94	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the project is intended to provide legal basis for the introduction of the CEPiK 2.0 system, but we are concerned about this information that once again the Ministry was unable to create and run this system at the beginning of 2017, and its implementation was postponed to June 2018, i.e. by 1.5 years. I'm asking you a fundamental question. It is of course very important that drivers will be able to check the number of penalty points on the Internet, after all we live in the 21st century and this should be obvious. However, there is a danger, a temptation due to the expectations of insurance companies who asked the Ministry to provide them with data on the number of points and the number of offences caused by drivers on Polish roads. I would like to warn against such a solution, because insurance companies point out that this would allow them to rationalise the scale of the increases that are related to compulsory OC insurances, but I have the impression that this would rather allow them to raise the rates of those drivers who have some criminal offences and penalty points on their conscience. As such talks are ongoing and the Ministry will certainly keep us informed, I would like to ask the Minister whether you are indeed able to guarantee and say today that such data will not be transmitted to insurers. Because in my opinion, this solution will not work in favour of the driver at all, but on the contrary, it may result in an increase in the rate of OC for those who have penalty points. I ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u95	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From April, the website will start: Check the penalty points where you can check how many penalty points you have and when they expire. These are the data the police have at the moment. The website will allow drivers to keep track of their online balance. To register on the website, you will need to have the so-called. eGO trusted profile. This profile is an authorisation in electronic government systems. So far it has only been issued in offices after verification of our identity by means of an identity card. Today, the certificate has about 700,000 in Poland. citizens. Recently, a trusted profile can be obtained through several banks. While the Ministry announces that the eGO profile will soon be available in most Polish banks, I wanted to ask for detailed information on this subject: Do the Ministry have any idea how many banks will be able to start such a service in the near future and what entities will it be? If you can't answer me today, I'm asking for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u97	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Regarding the project, I have a question about the digital and bureaucratic reality, about adapting Poland to the 21st century. If the competent authorities determining the right to benefits, e.g. family, are obliged to obtain and verify the data on their own, so why, then, would you ask, are complex and multi-level IT systems being built? Local government units are to transmit data electronically to the Central Register. And here the question arises as to whether the software used by local government units is uniform. The citizen must ultimately bring certificates, documents, generally piles of papers, and here about the digital and bureaucratic reality in Poland one needs for example... I would refer to this in the case of CEPiK, which is functioning, and the update is practically not working very well there. Physically, cars that exist in the register are old, beetles, big Fiats, polonaises, several hundred thousand unverified vehicles that have been stripped, etc., etc. The final balance is that the lack of updates causes errors in statistics, causes the age of vehicles in Poland to increase, due to the number of technically registered and uninsured cars and their uninsured reviews. These problems, for example, show just one registry how important the updates of other registers are. And that, too, should be paid particular attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u99	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kryj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Achieving the goal of making life easier for citizens in their dealings with different offices is as trustworthy as possible. This applies both to the revision of the rules on road traffic and to the implementation of social assistance and family benefits. The fact that without leaving the house via the Internet you will get some information is something that Poles expect. We have repeatedly talked in this Chamber about the aspect of the information on the number of points he has collected in his account for the violations of traffic rules. The possibility of learning about this will also have a preventive aspect, will allow more rational behaviour on the road for drivers who will be aware of how many of these points they already have, and will avoid the unpleasant consequences of stopping a driving licence after exceeding 24 criminal points. My question concerns the following issues. It is said that the number of people who have a trusted profile on the ePUAP platform is indeed not large and this will decide that the possibility of using these, say, will be limited at the moment. So, what action does the Ministry intend to take to promote this possibility so that the number of such persons systematically increases? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u101	Thank you. And Mr Antoni the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, this project is expected from the first meeting of the Digital Commission with the participation of Minister Streżyńska. Then she said what the model of digital Poland and the transition from paper to digital Poland should look like. This particular project is necessary, long-awaited, but it is insufficient because this model is supposed to look much better. However, I think that in this term of office everything will be realized, because it is to be a model not only in which data from some registers will be used to verify data in another register, but also one according to which the Polish citizen will submit personal data that are needed to the official only once, while the rest will arrange records among themselves, computer systems among themselves. We will expect such a bill, although we can see that already with this act the Polish Ministry spoke very strongly, and all the information about which my predecessors spoke about the opinion of GIODO, this indicates that it will not be easy. This information and opinion is very general in nature, it is not so detailed, and it is difficult to say how you can take into account all the reservations that the General Data Protection Officer has for the Minister of Digitalization, but already in the form of a question he reserves to refer to the Minister of Digitalization as the country's main administrator. That's pretty mean. That's why I have questions. In the course of your work, will you also be able to pamper Poland? Who's gonna host the records? Is the owner of all these registers [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will there be a Ministry of Digitalization or will there also be other departments, and you will only coordinate or supervise the improvement of these registers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u103	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to clarify - in fact, to ask specifically about the law on road traffic - the question of the sum of points, because in the amendment, it is written that there will be information, among others. the sum of the points assigned for infringements on the basis of a final decision. The sum was, of course, yes, but it was not clear from the Minister's statement that there would also be information about the increasing points, in other words, the date of expiry of the particular points which had been imposed previously. Will such information actually be available, or is it just about this final, final sum of points? That would be very important. It seems natural that there should also be information about increasing overlaps, but I would like to hear a clear answer from the Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u105	Thank you. And Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'd like to ask you two questions. The first relates to the provisions of Article. The 13th deadline for the police to transmit data from the records of drivers violating the provisions to the CEPiK. This term is quite short: it is March 8th, the police have until March 31st, which means that the work on the system, on the extension of the CEPiK, is already being carried out, so at least it follows from the timetable, from such even a cursory reading of this article. I would like to ask whether these works are already being carried out, on the basis of which they were commissioned and whether the Polish Securities Printing Works has submitted any comments to this element, which were comments at all, because we do not have full information, access to this information. The second point I want to ask is that citizens have access to the register, to information about the points obtained. You designed access based on authentication with trusted ePUAP profile. I would like to ask you why you did not consider it appropriate to allow access on the basis of an electronic signature as well. There's quite a lot of electronic signatures in circulation, but you're forcing a citizen to create a trusted profile first, authenticate it with an electronic signature and then get access to that register using a trusted profile. Why will it not be possible to directly use an electronic signature that confirms the identity of this access? Perhaps you will propose such a solution on the committee. I would very much ask for an answer in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u107	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of Minister Marek Zagórski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Thank you, first of all, for accepting this proposal in spite of a number of questions, as well as a few doubts. I will try to answer them fully as far as possible. I also hope that if I do not respond to something, there will be an opportunity to give these answers during the committee's work. Mr Arndt asked if we had to involve the whole apparatus of the state so that the driver could check the penalty points and whether this was justified. Of course, this is the question of what model of administration management we will adopt. Our work is moving in this direction so we don't have to do it. We're in the first stage. This bill is one of the many projects that will lead us to make the public administration effective so that we can actually talk about the government, which is the state, which is active 24 hours a day for 7 days a week. That's our goal. We're gonna bring it in gradually. In the first phase, we will introduce this by individual laws. In the end, we intend to prepare a project that will regulate the establishment of public services and make these public services available in a comprehensive way. As far as the pace of work is concerned, whether this law must enter into force on 1 April, of course it can be said that there is no need to do so. The law can enter even in a year, but it is indeed a expected service. If this work could be carried out quickly, which you are saying is a little off, but I hope that in the committee we will be able to explain it to ourselves, if we could introduce it, it would be expected by the citizens. This is also related, just this element, when we are talking about the service concerning the checking of penalty points, with the repair of the CEPiK 2.0 system . And here I will immediately try to answer Mr Carrot. I'm sorry, but this is the cleaning effect after the CepiK has been poorly prepared. We promised, asking for an extension of the deadline until 4 June 2018, that we will be individual services, the different functionalities of the CEPiK will be introduced gradually. This is the result of our commitment. [[I voted in favour.]] Sure, but let's remember why we had to postpone the implementation of the whole CEPiK. The thing that's been repeating here all the time is GIODO's opinion. It is a risk that we will expose or expose the data of citizens that are contained in the state registers, as a result of the implementation of this law, that we are putting the security of these personal data at risk by unjustified use. I would like to say that Mr Mendło responded perfectly to all of this. This is a complete misunderstanding. I'm sorry to say this is a misunderstanding that was caused by the General Data Protection Officer's letter. We're not talking about sharing records with anyone. We're talking about the data contained in these registers. All we want is for officials who must be the guarantee of this security, who operate under certain regulations and who are aware of the risks of data sharing, to be responsible for the use of data in state registers, which are protected and protected, among others. Personal Data Protection Act. Nothing changes around here. I want to say more: in fact, the same officials that we might have reservations about are getting these personal data in paper form today. So today we're just talking about these paper certificates, this whole paper file that contains sensitive data, going to the same officials. We do not change anything in this regard, as regards allegations, reservations about the fact that we are in any way risking personal data leaking. We can say that every public register that today is managed by various administrative offices is always exposed to this risk. Our task and the task of the individual administrators of these registers is to ensure that this does not happen. The fact that we have such sensitivity indicates, among others, that we have such sensitivity. The fact that as soon as there was a danger that maybe the bailiffs were using or downloading data from the PESEL register in an unjustified way, in too much quantity, we decided to check it out at the D.A.'s office. So that we see here no reason at all for this subject to really have a fundamental meaning on the occasion of this law. I regret once again that the General Data Protection Officer is looking for a problem here, because this problem is not here. I repeat once again: we do not collect - this is what Mr Bańkowski asked - any new data. We are just talking about the fact that the relevant authorities will be able to download the information contained in the systems to make life easier for citizens, for example. to the schools which must issue these certificates. I hope that this is also the answer to the question of many of your fellow Members. Mr Arndt also asked about the comments made by the Polish Securities Printing Works. The materials in this area are in sejm printing, in annexes on the last page, where we have information about public consultations. Earlier there is information about GIODO, later there is information about comments made by PWPW, which concerned the indication of other means of authentication than only a trusted profile. This is also the answer to Mr Suchuni's question as to whether we can use a qualified signature here. We are talking about authentication because we want to make it easier to use, but not as high as the qualified signature. At the same time, any citizen with a qualified signature can establish a profile that is trusted in a very simple way. The same goes for... And here is the answer to why we do this on ePUAP and why we require a trusted profile. Because these are also sensitive data, so we want the verified persons to be able to use it. The establishment of a trusted profile is a very simple matter with the use of banking systems, which makes it possible gradually, it is absolutely banal. At the moment, four banks are giving citizens the opportunity to do so. The increase is several tens of thousands a month. Several dozens of thousands of new accounts on a trusted profile are set up. New banks, the next two, will be offering such a service within the next few weeks. In total, all these banks will cover 90% of electronic banking customers, which is almost the entire population that can benefit from this. Thus, we will give the opportunity to almost all citizens who want to function today in the administration system, to easily establish a trusted profile, and this is the first stage. The next step is the whole process of disseminating and popularizing a trusted profile. You also need to be aware that one is very connected to the other: the more services, the more willing to assume this profile. We count on it to be, among other things. such services as the possibility of checking criminal points. A modernised, facilitated way of exchanging personal IDs through a ePUAP-trusted profile is also a service that we hope will encourage citizens to establish a trusted profile and thus use a range of services. Once again, I stress this: it's really easy to establish a trusted profile, it takes a few minutes. I've done it myself, and I know how easy it is. And, of course, I would also like to thank those of you who would like to assist us in the process of promoting this service. Mrs Michalek and one of your fellow Members asked about the transfer of data to insurance companies. What I'm saying is that there's no such discussion, and we don't have a plan. Here we're talking about sensitive data, first of all. Secondly, even if we were going in that direction - and once again I stress that we are not going - it is completely irrational to use the number of points for exceeding, for violation of the rules of road law, because another weight has a parking ticket, and another weight has a mandate for some serious infringement, for example. significant speeding. So, even though such proposals from insurance companies appear, we are not considering it. We don't think that's appropriate in any way. Mrs Czernow probably asked about the use of this data for business purposes in this context. We do not provide for this use and allow the use of citizens' data for business purposes, and this law certainly does not give any reason to make such a conclusion. Mr Sitarski said that the CEPiK was unverified. Yes, it is, which is why we have implemented the whole process of change, which is why we have requested an extension of the deadline for the entry into force of CEPiK 2.0. That's what I'm talking about. These inaccuracies related to the dictionaries of vehicle brands repair. I would like to remind you that this dictionary has been restored recently, and this is intended to give us the basis to correct all the inconsistencies that you have been talking about during the repair process, but also the whole process of repairing and implementing CEPiK 2.0 . Mr Mężyłko spoke about the Ministry Poland, who will lead the process of implementing the changes of this e-Polish model, e-government services and coordinated this. So the minister of digitalization will definitely coordinate it. We are working on a whole system of changes, as the Minister has also repeatedly informed the members of the Committee on Digitisation and new technologies. We assume that we will create the basis for e-services to function in a good legal environment and in a good technological environment, hence our goal is primarily to focus on these basic elements, such as e.g. Joint State Architecture or Data and Services Integration Platform or System of State Registers. Mr Lassota asked what would be the information on criminal points, whether there would be information on the sum of points, whether there would be a breakdown into individual infringements. Yeah, it's gonna be broken down into individual violations with the date they were extinguished. Mr Suchoń asked - to this I have already partially answered - about authentication, the signature qualified vs. trusted profile. As I said, when it comes to a trusted profile, in this case, we meant that it should not be at a high level when it comes to the method of signing, but at an average level, as is the case with a trusted profile. One is linked to the other and we do not rule out the possibility of using a qualified signature in e-services. And we're going to develop this whole system. We hope that soon we will refer another law to you, which will be the issue - the issue of the functioning of the so-called. digital identity, regulated. I'm sure there'll be an opportunity to get back to that. Once again, I would like to thank you very much for all your questions and I hope that we will make these points more specific in the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers. The draft amendment - amending certain laws in relation to the tasks of public administrations in relation to certain public registers provides for the possibility for citizens to handle matters with public administration through ICT systems. Regulation provides for an amendment of the rules governing the operation of the central vehicle register, the central driver register and the legal framework for the launch of the CEPiK 2.0 system. . The project creates a legal framework for the launch of e-services for citizens allowing the Internet to check the number of criminal points received by the driver for traffic violations committed. Provisions in this respect - Article. The first point of the project - is to enter into force on 1 April 2017. Information on the number of points will be made available after the data subject has been certified with a profile trusted with ePUAP - based on data provided by the Police from the records of drivers in violation of traffic regulations. On the other hand, environmental inspection authorities will have free access to vehicle data collected in the central vehicle register. In the case of exports of waste in the form of a vehicle abroad, the responsibility for illegal shipment of waste shall be borne by the seller of the vehicle under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Poland. The above obliges the Chief Environmental Officer to determine the last owner of the vehicle being moved by waste and to carry out administrative action to that person to enable the decision to be taken in accordance with Article. 25 and Article 25 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 26 Law on the International Movement of Waste. To date, the activities of the Environmental Protection Inspection have been hindered by the lack of access to data from the CEPiK system. The essence of the proposed amendments is also the reduction of the number of certificates which must be attached to the application by applicants for family benefits, benefits in the event of unsuccessful execution of alimony, the Large Family Charter and educational benefits. These changes will mean reducing the bureaucratic burden for citizens. In line with the proposed amendments, it will be possible for the granting authorities themselves to access family benefits, maintenance fund benefits, the Large Family Charter and education provision to the educational information system. The authorities granting family benefits, maintenance fund benefits and education will have access to the Central Insurance List. They will also be able to make direct use of the data collected in the insured account and in the premium payer's account, on the basis of social security rules. The project assumes that the authorities granting the Large Family Card will have access to the PESEL register and to the EXMOON system. Designed changes are a continuation and development of existing solutions. They provide that the authorities carrying out family benefits, benefits in the event of unsuccessful execution of maintenance and the provision of education shall have independent access to income information from applicants for benefits or beneficiaries of benefits and members of their families from the tax authorities or the minister responsible for public finances. The Act is to enter into force on 1 July 2017, with the exception of among others. records of the online verification of the number of points received by the manager and the collection from the educational information system by the Minister of data necessary to determine the right to benefits. High Izbo! The construction of e-states and digital Poland should be one of the priorities of our activity in the Sejm. This is what the 21st century requires of us and a rapidly changing environment in which we operate. And you have to admit that every year this is more and more a digital environment. As a member of the Digital Commission and new technologies, I am interested in looking at the government project. Reducing bureaucratic burdens for citizens, facilitating their contact with offices via the Internet and improving the exchange of data between offices will facilitate the day-to-day functioning of citizens and improve the functioning of administrations. Speaking on behalf of the Polish People's Party, I cannot ignore the problem of unequal access to such projects in our country. We still have many online deserts - areas where even the best-formated e-government will not reach. In parallel to building a digital administration, we should expand fast Internet access in rural areas. In particular, the construction of fibre networks seems urgent. So we should go two-track: improve both the quality of the e-state and its availability, universality. Especially in rural areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in respect of certain public registers. The amendments proposed in the revision aim to facilitate citizens' contact with public administrations. They are the next step in improving this relationship so that the handling of everyday matters in offices is not associated mainly with the need to postpone your time in a gigantic queue and provide countless documents and certificates. Thanks to the changes proposed in this project, the offices involved in the implementation of family benefits, social assistance benefits, maintenance fund benefits, educational benefits or the Large Family Charter will gain independent access to relevant registers, which will significantly reduce the bureaucratic burden on citizens. I consider any initiatives which are so burdensome to society to be extremely beneficial and worthy of support. I believe that computerisation of administration, bringing many things out of this area without having to leave home is the right direction for development. The way in which the other proposals made in this amendment are also followed, such as: updating the rules affecting the functioning of the central vehicle register, the central driver register and the legal framework for the launch of the CEPiK 2.0 system. Among them are changes introducing regulations allowing drivers to check remotely, by means of e-services, the number of points assigned to them, both final and temporary. Furthermore, new powers for the Chief Environmental Officer, who will gain access to vehicle data collected in the central vehicle register, also appear to be extremely important. As the designers point out, by facilitating the identification of the last owner of a car, which is now a tool for illegal international transport of waste, the work of the Chief Environmental Officer will be improved and the costs of waste management will be reduced. About Free and Solidarnia there is no doubt that the regulations contained in this project will improve the work of public administrations and authorities, but above all they will facilitate the lives of our citizens, who will be able to spend more time thanks to efficient ICT systems. to their families. So I fully support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u112	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers, contained in print No 1305, to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws (print No 1306). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a bill amending the Social Security Act and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. You can say that the project assumes the implementation of a program or e-Składka project. The main objective of the project is to introduce a uniform standard for the identification of the payer of the contributions by granting each payer an individual account number to which contributions to the broadly understood social security will be transferred, as well as health insurance contributions, contributions to the Labour Fund, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and the Post-Most Pension Fund. The project covers about 7 million contributors to social security contributions, health insurance and other funds. It can be said that the aim of the project is to reduce the number of transfers, operations carried out in connection with the implementation of the social security obligation. On a yearly basis, according to 2015 data, the number of contributions made by payers to individual funds is over 65 million, of which 21.5 million are payments made to the Social Insurance Fund, 27 million are payments made for health insurance, 16.5 million are payments made to the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and 160 000. These are payments made to the Post-Most Pension Fund. In the current legal state, premium payers are obliged to pay contributions to separate bank accounts, as indicated by the undertaking, broken down by title. These payments shall be made through payment documents dedicated to the payment of contributions. The documents shall have dedicated fields identifying the contributions and the payer of the contributions. As regards the instruments for identifying the payer, the so-called contributions are used. Numeric identifiers - alternatively NIP, REGON, PESEL - or ID number. The payment of contributions is now required to also indicate the period for which the contribution is paid by specifying the month, year and number of the billing declaration. Contributions go to four central premium accounts, i.e. the social security account, the health insurance bill, the account for the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and the Labour Fund, as well as the account for the Post-Madder Pension Fund. In the case of an erroneously entered identifier, it is not possible to automatically identify the paid contribution with the payer's account. The Social Insurance Institution must then carry out an investigation procedure which requires cooperation not only with the payer of the contributions but also with the institution serving the contribution, i.e. with a bank, postal operator or other payment institution. As regards data from January 2016, the Social Insurance Institution received around 281 thousand during that period. unidentified payments for the amount of PLN 328 million and in each individual case undertake such an investigation. As regards the substance of the proposed amendment, it implies the introduction of the principle of identification of contributions from the undertaking after the individual premium account number to be allocated to each of the payers. This will significantly reduce the number of investigations conducted by the undertaking in this area, eliminate the impact of new, unidentified contributions. The draft law aims to replace the existing system of collection of contributions, based on four central premium accounts, with the system of individual premium accounts generated for contributors directly by the undertaking. The individual contribution accounts for contributors generated by the undertaking will only be used to record contributions, as if they would not have a wider scope of application, in particular they would not be payment accounts, i.e. no other operations, in particular payments, may be made out of these accounts. The Social Insurance Institution will be authorised to assign its own numbering according to the IBAN Account Standard. There will be a change in the identifier for the payer of the contributions by assigning the individual account numbers of the contribution accounts, which will become new identifiers, and the handling of generated premium accounts will be possible by any entity, in particular the bank. This project will enable contributors to reduce the number of payments made and reduce the amount of information given on payment documents. Payments will be made by only one transfer in place of the four existing ones, in the form of a standard Elixir message, to the individual account number generated by the bet for each payer. This will reduce the number of payments to be made by the IT systems of banks and the establishment on a yearly basis from 65 million, as has been the case so far, to 27 million, i.e. to the number of potential health insurance contributions based on 2015 data. As regards the advantages of the proposed changes, as I mentioned, they include simplifying the rules for the identification of contributions at the payer's level, as well as rapid access to information on the balance of the account for the payer and the insured, simplifying the system of payment for contributions, clearing payments for the oldest arrears, applying modern financial solutions or using the instrument of direct debit. The draft provides that the bet will generate the contribution account number for the payer of the contribution as soon as the payer's contribution account has been created. As regards payers who already have an account in the Social Insurance Institution, such account numbers will be generated by the establishment by 31 December 2017. The Social Insurance Institution will be required to inform the payers of the number by that date and, in the absence of this obligation, the payer will be obliged to request the Social Insurance Institution for information on the number of the contribution account that was assigned to them. The bet will have 3 months to fulfil this obligation, i.e. period from October to December 2017 The proposed solution will fundamentally change the debt structure of the ZUS contributions - and this is actually the third advantage of this new solution - by accounting for current receipts for the oldest debts. There is a debt phenomenon in the social security financial system. As regards the level of this debt for the years 1999 to 2011, it currently amounts to PLN 10 800 million, of which its share in the debt of active payers, as of October 2016, amounts to PLN 2 billion. The amount of debt is about 480 thousand. active contributors, that is about 30% debtors, for the total number of 1300 thousand. debtors. Current revenue on contributions receivable amounts to more than PLN 12 billion per month, if we are talking about the impact on the Social Insurance Fund, and are made by payers who do not have a debt of nearly PLN 10 billion. This applies to around 800,000. payers. Only for this group of payers who do not have debt, the introduction of a new principle for the settlement of contributions will have no impact, but for the others, who can be said to be affected by the debt phenomenon, each subsequent contribution will be counted against the oldest arrears. The use of the oldest payment algorithm in the settlement of contributions may result in the payment of contributions in the event of debt in the payer's account not being settled against current contributions. For the insured person, this may mean no contributions - because as a consequence, you can say, the oldest periods have been settled, the premiums have been paid to cover the insured premiums declared during that settlement period - or otherwise the insured person will be covered by contributions together with interest for late payment for the oldest period at the expense of current debt. At the same time, it should be noted that the rules already in force do not provide for the possibility of determining the payment for the payment of claims for a particular insured person. Thus, any underpayment of the current contribution results in debt arising also from those insured against whom the payer has deducted contributions from full remuneration. Under the rules in force, the payer shall decide on the amounts to which the contributions are paid instead of the insured. Therefore, the amounts collected from his remuneration may already be settled for the benefit of other insured persons. Here it is worth noting that the debt of the current period is not at risk of statute of limitations and is therefore possible to cover or repay future payments. Thus, the coverage of the missing contributions will be spread over time. In view of the contributions due for the period from January 2017, the limitation period will be 5 years, so that on the date of entry into force of the proposed provisions the undertaking will have 4 years to take action to enforce the claim. With regard to the Social Insurance Fund and this debt, which I mentioned, this situation may affect nearly 1300 thousand in 1999 and 2011. insured. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to three solutions, which are also part of this project, and which in this sense relate to matter, which is being amended by the bill presented. Namely, I mean introducing or securing the rights of insured persons in the event of the determination of the ineffective transfer of insured persons under Article. The 23rd Labour Code. It is proposed here to add in Article. 4 Act of the new provision, point 2a, which would contain a definition of so-called. the applicant for insurance as well as the addition after Article. 38 - today's law on the social security system of the new provision, i.e. Article 2 38a. This is a provision which, on the one hand, would give or could actually confirm the existing practice in this regard - the possibility for the pension authorities of the Social Security Office to issue decisions determining who, in such a case, in the event of such an ineffective transfer of workers together with a part or the whole of the work establishment under Article. 23, he's just a premium payer. The point is that doubts can be resolved in this regard. In this respect, it is also proposed to introduce a new solution in the proposed article. Article 38a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 4 which would give the Social Insurance Institution, in the event of a criminal offence, the phenomenon of outsourcing of workers, such an unfair, ineffective outsourcing of workers, the possibility of making payments for social security contributions paid by such potential outsourcing for contributions to the former employer, the employer who was unsuccessfully transferred in accordance with Article. 23 The Labour Code, or part of it, and as a consequence, it can be said that there has been an individual change on the employer's side in employment relations with workers employed in the workplace or in part of it. The second element of such detailed solutions designed or envisaged in the draft law is the adoption of a uniform model of compensation for late transfer of contributions to open pension funds in the form of interest borne by the undertaking without detailed analysis of whose fault the delay occurred. Here, in particular, it is intended to repeal today's provisions of the Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 10c-10g Act on the social security system. These are provisions which give the possibility to impose such an additional fee in the event of the timely transfer of contributions. These rules have in practice failed the exam, they do not fulfil their role. The costs of issuing decisions imposing such an additional fee simply outweigh the income of the Social Insurance Fund for this purpose, and therefore it is simply appropriate to repeal those provisions. And the third element of these additional solutions, which accompany as if the essential part of the draft law, is the legal alignment of electronic printouts generated by the authorized person from the platform of electronic services ZUS with certificates issued by the plant in paper form. In general, it is the so-called. certificates of non-compliance with premium obligations. It can be said that each payer, using access to his individual bank account number, will be able to simply print out such a certificate of non-indebtedness and this certificate, such a printout, right, from the system, will have the same power as the certificates that today are issued in paper form by the ZUS pension authorities. To conclude, I would like to ask the High House to refer this draft law to further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u114	Thank you very much, Minister, for presenting the project. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. But before I give the floor to the first Member, I would like to thank all of you for your wishes today, including Marshal Brudziński, who, as he started holding the meeting, made such wishes to us. And you are starting with a member of the Law and Justice Club... Mrs Halina Szydleko. You're welcome. [[Almost all women.]] It is clear that we are working, Madam Member. [[That's the way it always is.]] And that's our asset. Please, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. The government project concerns inter alia. the introduction of individual premium accounts for payers of contributions to which a single payment shall be made for all claims to which the Social Insurance Institution is obliged to collect. The purpose of this Act is to replace the current system of collection of contributions, based on four central premium accounts, with the system of individual premium accounts generated for contributors directly by the undertaking. This will improve the identification of payments resulting from the allocation of an individual account number to a specific payer of contributions. At present, each month it makes several payments to different bank accounts, resulting in costly and time-consuming contributions. In addition, investigations are currently under way to identify wrongly or incorrectly described contributions. The introduction of the principle of identification of contributions made by an undertaking after the individual premium account number will significantly reduce the number of investigations. This project will allow contributors to reduce the number of payments made and reduce the amount of information given on payment documents. Payments will be made by one transfer. This will also reduce the number of payments to be made to the processing by the IT systems of banks and the plant, which will be reduced from 58 million to around 27 million per year. The adoption of the solutions proposed in the draft law will allow the identification of contributions at the level of the payer, and will enable the automatic identification of contributors making contributions from abroad, and currently there are about 5 000. such deposits that are operated manually. In addition, the payer and the insured will have faster access to information about the balance of the account. The clearing system will be simplified using modern financial solutions. The project envisages that the establishment will be responsible for allocating funds between individual funds and their managers. In addition, the purpose of this draft law is to clarify certain provisions in order to eliminate differences in interpretation. Given that the proposed amendments aim to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the Social Insurance Institution, the Law and Justice Club supports this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u116	Thank you very much. And I would like to speak with Mrs Joanna Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present a position on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws contained in print No 1306. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the government bill aims to implement the process of increasing the functionality of optimising the public danin collection system for the benefit of citizens and entrepreneurs. Some of the amendments introduced by the Act are needed, while some require detailed discussion and refinement in order to avoid chaos and additional burden on entrepreneurs and employees of the Social Insurance Institution. The project assumes the introduction of individual premium accounts for contributors, to which one payment will be made for all claims to which the ZUS is obliged to collect. Currently, contributions for a given settlement period are paid into three or four central accounts. After the amendment of the law, each payer will make a single payment for the contribution to each payer by the Social Security Office, which will also serve to identify the payer of the contribution. In the light of the rules in force, the payer's contribution identifiers when drawing up transfers shall be NIP, REGON and PESEL. The proposer of the proposed law refers to the fact that in 2016 the Social Insurance Institution received nearly 281 thousand. payments which are not identified to which the investigation is being conducted on an ongoing basis. Let me add that there is an Interactive Paid Plus in the Social Insurance Institution. It allows verification of the billing documents and the payer's data in the central database of the Comprehensive Information System of the Social Insurance Institution prior to their dispatch. It also allows the generation of payment documents according to the payer's identification data stored in the ZUS account. The scale of the problem of the number of unidentified contributions should be assessed on the basis of statistics from previous years, i.e. prior to the launch of the IPP programme. Account should also be taken of the cost of modifying ZUS information systems to adapt them to the implementation of this change. The Social Insurance Institution estimates this cost up to PLN 10 million. The question is whether the financial resources involved will be adequate to the benefits of this change. What is the guarantee that the number of unidentified payments will be significantly lower? Does the applicant have data on the basis of which he decides to implement this costly change? The applicant for this project envisages the need to issue a new regulation on the order and method of crediting payments made to the FUS's contribution account and other charges to which the ZUS is obliged to collect. There will be a change in the payment settlement algorithm, which will consist in clearing them, starting with the oldest payments. This way of accounting will limit the limitation of premium claims. Currently, the payer of the contributions has the possibility to mark the payments up to the month for which the contributions are due. The proposed change will reduce the possibility of paying contributions for the period in accordance with the payer's availability of contributions. The proposed amendment will have a negative impact on non-agricultural workers who pay their own social security contributions, including voluntary sickness insurance, whose share in the structure of the contributors is the largest, as they represent around 60% all payers. Currently, a person pursuing non-agricultural economic activities, subject to voluntary sickness insurance, who has arrears in paying contributions for earlier periods, but who pays contributions for current periods in time and in full in the case of sickness or maternity, shall be entitled to the payment of short-term sickness benefits. The proposed change will deprive such a person of the right to pay these benefits. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill raises many questions, which is why the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club proposes that the project be directed to further work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u118	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present a position regarding the government proposal for a law amending the Social Security System Act and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. The draft amendment concerns, inter alia, the introduction of individual premium accounts for payers of contributions to which a single payment will be made for all claims. Whether to standardise information on social security contributions to social assistance clients etc. revolutionize the awful system? The truth is, the Social Insurance Institution can't handle the collection of late contributions. According to the Supreme Control Board report... Several dozens of billions of zlotys are unrecoverable. These are generally virtual records, this amount can no longer be recovered. Some of the arrears are lost, others are irretrievable, even in the case of companies that no longer exist. Entrepreneurs who do not employ employees who have financial problems or have other problems, are unable to pay contributions or have not made payments, may apply for public aid, among others. by spreading the commitment into instalments, deferring the period for payment of the contributions. Where recovery is completely impossible or the financial and family situation is hopeless, you can also apply for remission of contributions. Since 1 January 2017, companies have lost the opportunity to apply for unduly paid contributions from 10 years ago. In general, there are no clear relationships and contacts between insurance companies and customers. Will this amendment improve them? The way in which social security contributions are booked needs to be organized. Of course, a terrible distortion of the system is the situation where everyone pays into one account. This bill is about to change that. Another issue is the absence of a state debtor register vis-à-vis the State. Such arrears as those against the Social Security Office or the Tax Office are available, but at the request of the interested party. So how do you get benefits for pensioners and pensioners? Among other things, the above mentioned above. the benefits are co-financed by grants from the State budget, from the Demographic Reserve Fund. Improvements in the collection of social security contributions are needed here as much as possible. All payments to the Social Security Office from 2018 will be able to be paid by one transfer to one individual account of the payer of the contributions. In general, many times from this speaker today it has been discussed what this mechanism will be. Now the issue of generating account numbers by the end of 2017. Will this number be the new identifier of the payer's contributions? If so, why, if ZUS customers are identified by PESEL number at the moment? The consequences of receiving incorrect information about the allocated account number shall not be borne by the payer of the contributions. Another question: Will the period during which they will be wrongly identified and settled contributions be fully entitled to receive benefits by the entitled? Who should be responsible for verifying the correctness of the account number? For PLN 10 million, the amounts needed to adapt the ICT system to the amendment of the law are calculated. What was the estimate of these costs? The main problem in the Social Security Office is now the identification of the payer and the beneficiary, the wrong deposits and four central bank accounts. This bill is supposed to change that. What is the current course of action in case of an unidentified payment? Where a payment has been recorded in the ZUS IT system which has not been identified with any account, a notice shall be sent that an unidentified social security contribution, health insurance, the Labour Fund, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund has been identified. Possible reasons for establishing an unidentified payment with the payer's account: no payer's account, making a payment with incorrect identification data, making a deposit with other identification data than the data provided on the payer's application document to the ZUS, the payer has more than one account in the IT system, errors in the payment document due to the payment institution - bank or mail. Will the introduction of individual accounts help to avoid errors in deposit records? There's still a very important matter. The principle of covering claims from the oldest changes the structure of the contribution debt, can directly affect the right to short-term benefits. However, the fact that contributions are not paid or paid on time already has the same effect. The whole structure protects insured persons with regard to liability for non-payment or late payment of contributions by the payer, while ensuring that the insured are still entitled to benefits. Does the changes made require normative emphasis that the rules on payment of contributions do not affect the situation of insured persons? The Kukiz Club15 is very much in favour of simplification and uniformity, so to speak, [[♪ The bell ♪]] problems of the ZUS, but it is still necessary to proceed further with the bill in Parliament and in committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, Modern Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u121	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The current system is outdated and complicated. The obligation to make four contributions into four different accounts with changing data to identify payments each time means one: a big mess. And that's what you have to call today's state in the ZUS. The ZUS averages approx. 28 thousand a month. investigations into unidentified payments. This is a bureaucratic absurdity. If the law is effectively implemented, it will facilitate the lives of nearly 7 million contributors and reduce the self-propelled official machine, in this case serving only itself. However, this will only happen if detailed solutions are prepared comprehensively and reliably. The project has another important consequence: payments will now be counted against the oldest debts. The government's proposal does not say anything about how this solution is to work. Without knowing the detailed rules of settlement, we do not know what the consequences for the indebted payers could be for the Social Insurance Fund. How will this change affect the possibility of obtaining short-term benefits? Let's not forget that. sickness or maternity benefits depend on current contributions. Nor can we predict whether the proposed scheme will be sufficiently unambiguous, whether it will actually simplify the system of payment of contributions, or whether it will cause further chaos and a wave of new investigations. Since the government has not presented the planned assumptions of the algorithm as part of the project, we do not know what the effects of the new system will be. And the devil is in the details. I am afraid that, together with the draft law, no draft regulation has been presented, which will regulate the key part of the new mechanism. Without this, it is impossible to make a substantive reference to this project. Such legislative shortcomings Unfortunately, it is a typical and recurring flaw in the PiS projects. You intend to make the necessary change, but set too short a deadline: 1 January 2018. You don't have to rush so fast, calmly, you'll be running until 2019 probably. 'Cause I don't think anyone takes the prognosis of Prime Minister Moravian seriously 'cause we're still 14 years old from degeneration of a democratic rule of law. Like GDP forecasts, and these will come to the Prime Minister to revise. Don't push this bill hard enough to say we did it. I appeal to the Minister, the Minister who runs this project, to be careful in drafting the regulation, and I sincerely wish you good luck, because simplification and the fight against bureaucracy are a few areas where we may still have an agreement between our clubs. This could be your real success, not your propaganda success. I hope you just want to listen and work now, clarify all these records during the committee's work. And that's the recommendation of the Modern Club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u122	Thank you very much, Member. Two further speeches: the club of the Polish People's Party and the Free and Solidarnia wheels were submitted in writing. So we approach the questions. Seven people are on the list of people who want to ask a question. Would anybody else like to ask you a question? I can't see. I'll close the list then. She begins with the first question by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of a single account to pay back due contributions is a major facilitation for payers. Information on the account number will be provided to the payer in the form of a written or electronic document bearing an electronic signature. I have not been able to find out in the contents of the Act the date on which the insurance undertaking will pass this information on to the payer. The payer will therefore not know until when he is expected to expect a premium account number and from which point on he is to intervene and report to the bet to clarify this situation. Can I clarify the issues that I have indicated to eliminate possible chaos, so I will put it, in my opinion, especially on the date of the entry into force of the law, when the method of settlement with the Social Security Office [[♪ The bell ♪]] is to change to these provisions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, also the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Simplifying the payment of contributions to debts which the Social Security Office is collecting is undoubtedly a good way to go. There are doubts as to the detailed arrangements and, in particular, regarding the clearance of accounts, particularly where there are delays in the transfer of contributions, particularly to the OFE, the payment of interest in this respect, the settlement of pending cases, the audit cases relating to previous years or the overpayments, and in particular the arrears. Solutions regarding the order of payment with priority for outstanding contributions raise serious doubts as they may be the reason for the loss of family benefits by the owners of companies, but also employees, and often obligations [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether the debts in question should be considered seriously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz Club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it possible in the proposed amendments to the draft amendment of the Act that the reporting agent pays undue contributions to social security insured persons should be reimbursed to the payer? Who calculates the amount to be credited to social security contributions claims according to the settlement periods indicated in the decision: Social Insurance Institution or the reporting agent of social security insured persons for all contributions declared for the period? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u128	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Each of the employers' payers must make transfers to the Social Security Office for contributions to the Social Security Office each month: for pensions, pensions, for insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases, sickness, health, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, for bridge pensions, for the Labour Fund. A change allowing these contributions to be transferred by one transfer will reduce the bank costs of employers, but also the labour intensity and number of errors. Minister, have you estimated the scale of this reduction? In 1998, during the course of the reform of the social security system, the first version of the solutions was such that it could be done by one transfer. I don't remember whether it was the Social Security Office or the Ministry of Finance, but we were introduced at the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] serious arguments preventing such a solution. If this works, it will be a big relief for the contributors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice. Here's another question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed changes aim to improve the functioning of the public danin system for the benefit of citizens and entrepreneurs. One payment for all charges to which the Social Insurance Institution is obliged to collect. It has about 3 million contributors. The number of payments per year will decrease by around 60%, i.e. from 65 million to 27 million. And so: Will the proposed changes improve the work of the ZUS? Will we have faster access to information about the balance of the account for the payer and the insured person? Will there be a simplification of the premium billing system? And a rather difficult question: Will the need to adapt the ZUS information systems in relation to the data recorded in the payer's account, the rules for the identification of deposits, the principles of payment billing algorithms not absorb too many resources, minimizing the profits resulting from the proposed changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. There is no Member. This is Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, who will ask the last question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u133	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You have not dealt with, Minister, the most important problem: the problem of the Social Insurance Fund deficit. This amount is approx. PLN 67 billion each of the last years. When designing a return to retirement by the age of 60 for women and 65 for men, we have another imbalance and I would like to ask how you assess this problem, because this problem is the most important problem of the Social Security Office. The second point is the matter of late payment of debts, payment of appropriate contributions and enforcement proceedings. I'd like to ask you about its effectiveness. The wrong solution to this project is the absence of a draft regulation. It's outrageous that there's no draft regulation on a government project. We can evaluate this project, but we should address the most important thing about the functioning of the pension system and the functioning of the Social Insurance Institution and the KRUS, but in terms of balancing and recovering the debts that taxpayers should pay to their future benefits. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u134	Thank you very much, Member. This was the last person to ask the question, as I said, from the list of Members to vote. The list was therefore exhausted. I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for the votes in the discussion, for the numerous questions. In fact, I could say that there is no doubt that everyone agreed that there is a need to amend the existing rules for the settlement of premiums. Actually, notice, we are talking about the introduction of a new standard of services provided by the Social Insurance Institution, but a standard that we already know. We know him from life, because according to the standards that we propose in this bill, we already settle periodic charges for electricity charges or gas charges. Each of us has an individual account to pay such monthly payments. The government's intention is to ensure that this modern standard also applies in the area of public services provided by the Social Insurance Institution. Of course, all kinds of doubts raised in the discussion are understandable, because we are talking about the scale of changes that are incomparable to changes in other segments of the economy in which these modern forms of settlement already function. We talked about the fact that this would apply to about 7 million payers. As regards the response to the specific questions raised in the discussion, one of the questions concerned the timetable for the implementation of the project. As I mentioned, when presenting the bill, it assumes that the process of generating individual accounts for contributors will be spread over 3 months for the last 3 months of 2017, i.e. it will start in October and will end in December this year. You can say that this action will also be accompanied by an information campaign, i.e. The Social Insurance Institution will inform the payers through the media about the new standard of services, which will start to apply from 1 January 2018. The project assumes situations where such generation and transmission of information about the allocated contribution to the payer may not occur by the end of 2017 for various reasons. In such a case, it assumes that the payer, having already knowledge of the new settlement rules in force from 1 January 2018, will have a month to appear, i.e. by the end of January he will be able to ask the ZUS pension authority to provide him with such an individual bank account number. This monthly period is linked to the payment of contributions: contributions for insured persons providing work in January 2018 are paid at the beginning of February this year. So, as I said, this month period is such a safety valve here. On the other hand, of course, we also have in the draft the principle that the consequences of not granting such an individual account number or not informing about an individual account number for reasons attributable to the Social Insurance Institution cannot be borne by the payer himself. With regard to the day-to-day handling of those payers who will register in the Social Insurance Institution after the entry into force of the Act, in the register of payers, this type of assignment of an individual account number will follow up on an ongoing basis. The draft law proposes simply to limit itself to the wording: the pension authority shall immediately assign such individual bank account number to the payer. As far as the next questions are concerned, you have also asked about the effects, the few questions that were asked during the discussion concerned the financial consequences of this change. From our point of view, the fact that these financial consequences will consist in reducing the costs of transfers, transferring funds to the Social Insurance Institution is obvious, but I do not hide that we had a problem with accurately assessing these effects, because we did not have access to information on the amount of fees charged for transfers by banks. For this reason, any respect would be burdened with a certain amount of lack of precision. Thus, in the impact assessment, such a precise indication of the scale of the benefits resulting from the reduction in the number of transfers from four to, it can be said that one per month for each payer of contributions could simply not have occurred. You also asked how the cost of implementing the law was estimated. Here we rely on the data provided by the Social Insurance Institution. Of course, the introduction of this new standard of service offered by the Social Insurance Institution will require changes in the IT system of the Social Insurance Institution. According to the estimates of the Social Security Office, the cost of such changes, together with the costs associated with this information campaign which I mentioned, should not exceed the amount of PLN 10 million. There have been questions regarding the introduction of this principle that, in the event of outstanding contributions to the payer's account, the newly paid contributions will be counted against the oldest outstanding liabilities. That's actually how you define the essence of this solution. It can be said, with regard to pension insurance, pension insurance, actually accident insurance, that the introduction of this rule should not entail negative consequences for the insured person himself, while there is a problem regarding voluntary sickness insurance, in particular when the payer of the contributions is simultaneously insured. Let me remind you that the rule laid down in the Social Insurance Act applies, according to which, in the case of voluntary sickness insurance, the delay in payment of contributions to that insurance results in the cessation of voluntary insurance. You can say that this problem is known. I can declare that we will try to return to this issue during the legislative work in the committee and propose an optimal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. [[But the Minister didn't answer me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to represent the PSL Parliamentary Club in its work on the bill amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws notified by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The amendment concerns the way in which the payment of contributions for all claims to which the ZUS is obliged to collect is carried out. In the view of the applicants, today's method is expensive, because payments are made on several different accounts - this involves different account numbers, and in the case of wrongly entered data it triggers the entire explanatory procedure. According to the project, each entrepreneur is to have an individual contribution account. On this account he would make all charges to the Social Security Office. This will replace social, health contributions, the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and the Pension Fund, reduce the number of payments by half. The draft also provides for an amendment to the non-payment certificates. Legally, certificates issued in paper form and electronic printouts generated by the payer from ZUS systems were proposed. The proposed changes aim to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the ZUS in carrying out tasks relevant to customers - contributors and insured persons. The PSL Club will be in favour of directing this project to further work on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u138	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle towards the government's draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Social Security System and the Act on the amendment of the Labour Code Act and some other laws. The level of bureaucracy in Poland in many institutions is absurd. Especially do Polish entrepreneurs struggle with it every day, who waste their time unnecessarily, fighting this heartless machine. The bill is intended to simplify the lives of almost 7 million Poles who pay contributions to various types of insurance. First of all, the proposed change will concern 3 million Polish contributors who will pay not only a few but only one contribution covering all obligations of the employer towards the Social Security Office. The Act will introduce a uniform standard for the identification of the payer of social security contributions, health insurance, the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund - FP and FGŚP - and the Pension Fund - FEP - by introducing individual contributions accounts for the payers, to which a single payment will be made to all claims to which the Social Insurance Institution is obliged to collect. So far, the payer had to transfer money to contributions to three different ZUS accounts. In accordance with the novel he will send them to one individual account. With a large number of employees This task was time-consuming and resulted in high costs for transfers. This also resulted in countless errors related to the correct classification of contributions. The proposed amendment will make sure that the Social Security Office will not bear many costs related to explaining and investigating whose contributions and for what period they are in its account. The important thing is that the government in the draft law took care of the protection of the payer's contributions. Where the Social Security Office misdefines the individual number assigned, the payer shall have no consequences for this. I am pleased that such a big change will involve a wide-ranging information campaign, using national media - information programs, press articles, the use of Internet portals, etc. - and activities directly organized by ZUS institutions addressed to their clients. This will avoid many ambiguities with regard to the contested law. The purpose of this draft law is also to clarify certain provisions so as to eliminate differences in interpretation arising in the practical application of existing laws. That is why the project includes solutions concerning, among others, use of the Central Database of RCI PESEL by the ZUS or legal alignment of electronic printouts generated by a qualified person from the Platform of Electronic Services of the Social Insurance Institution with certificates issued by the ZUS in paper form. For us, taxpayers and ZUS payers, the important novelty enshrined in the Act is the harmonisation of the rules of conduct of tax authorities and ZUS in the process of issuing individual interpretations. The clarity of the rules and the inability of an official to interpret them is the basis for citizens' confidence in the state. This is a solution worthy of support. The Act also solves problems related to any interpretation of the provisions in relation to the backlog of bailiffs who, using data collected by the Social Security Office during executions, do not pay in time for the data made available. There is no doubt that the bailiff should pay a fee for providing such information. Today, the bailiff gets the data before paying the payment, which often means that he does not see the need to settle a liability to the Social Security Office. The Act provides for changes to determine the time limit within which the bailiff should pay the fee and gives the possibility to charge interest as a consequence of failing to meet the payment deadline. This is a fair and justified solution. It cannot be that the enforcement institution itself does not regulate them on time, using inaccurate rules. Given that the proposed solutions will simplify and harmonise the social security system, which is for the benefit of the citizens, the Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the law be further reviewed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u139	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Social Security System and the Act on the amendment of the Labour Code Act and certain other laws, contained in print No 1306, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on honoring the memory of Professor Marian Raciborski on the 100th anniversary of death (prints no. 1273 and 1298). I ask Mr Robert Kołakowski to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I have the honour to present a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on honoring the memory of Professor Marian Raciborski on the 100th anniversary of his death, print No. 1273. Professor Marian Raciborski was an outstanding scientist, botanist, flora researcher, co-founder of Polish paleobotany and nature conservation movement in Poland. He was born on September 16, 1863 in the village of Brzóstowa near Mothmielowo. In 1881, he studied natural sciences and medicine at the Jagiellonian University and later continued his studies at universities in Germany. Between 1896 and 1900 he was in South-East Asia, where he studied the flora of the island of Java. During his stay on the island he created huge botanical collections, which he gave to Kraków's ethnographic museum. Some of his national collections were purchased for the Natural Museum. Dzieduszycki in Lviv. After returning to Poland from 1900 to 1909, the professor was the director of the Department of the Agricultural Academy in Dublana near Lviv. Since 1909, as a professor of botany at the University of Lviv, he organized the Biological and Botanical Institute at the university I mentioned. Since 1912 he was a professor of botany at the Jagiellonian University, where he founded the Botanical Institute in 1913 where he organized his own research school. He died in 1917 in Zakopane. Prof. Raciborski's scientific achievements put him in the order of the most versatile Polish scholars. His works concern floristics, algae, fungi, vascular plants, plant geography and paleobatics. The first Polish Paleobotanical works and the launch of the collective study of Flora Poland are of particular importance. The first volume of this study was released after the death of the professor in 1919. Professor Marian Raciborski was one of the pioneers of nature conservation in Poland. In 1910 he published a list of historic trees and plant communities. The first promoted the protection of natural monuments and the extension of natural and national museums. He also published greenery of okritonasienny plants and lower plants, which gained recognition in Poland and abroad. The Committee on Culture and Media, following its first reading and consideration of the draft at its meeting on 23 February, asks the High Sejm to adopt this draft resolution as follows: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on honoring the memory of Professor Marian Raciborski on the 100th anniversary of his death. On 17 March 2017 marks the 100th anniversary of the death of Marian Raciborski, an outstanding Polish scholar, father of Polish paleobotany, pioneer of the nature conservation movement in Poland. Marian Raciborski was born in 1863 in Brzóstowa near Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskiego. He has been interested in nature since his early years. This led him to undertake natural studies at the Jagiellonian University, which he then continued to do, among others. Bonn, Munich and Tybinga. After their completion he became an assistant at the Botanical Garden of the Jagiellonian University in Cracow. Between 1896 and 1900, Marian Raciborski conducted pioneer studies of the island of Java. This research has brought him international recognition and publicity. Thanks to his outstanding achievements, he became head of the Department of the Agricultural Academy in Dublana and later professor of botany at the University of Lviv and Jagiellonian University and director of the Botanical Garden of the Jagiellonian University in Cracow. At that time he was strongly involved in nature conservation activities in Poland, including the protection of the isolated species of Polish larch. His scientific work includes about 300 publications. Marian Raciborski was not only an outstanding scholar but also a great patriot. Raised in the family of the January insurgent, in 1914 he supported the wholehearted work of Józef Piłsudski and the legionary act. He didn't live to see the Free Country. He died on 17 March 1917 in Zakopane. On the 100th anniversary of the death of Professor Marian Raciborski, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland mentions his character and honors his memory and praises his scientific achievements and patriotic attitudes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u141	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Andrzej Kryj to present his speech on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u142	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member, I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on honoring the memory of Professor Marian Raciborski on the 100th anniversary of his death. Marian Raciborski was born on 16 September 1863 in the village Brzóstowa lying near Ćmielowo in the Ostrowice district. His father Francis was an official in existing porcelain plants in Ćmielów, an active participant of the January Uprising. This caused him to leave Brzóstowa in February 1864 and settled in Switzerland, threatened by the Tsarist authorities. Two years later, his wife and little Marian joined him. Although Marian Raciborski left his place of birth as a small child, his memory is still very alive in his hometown. Here it is worth asking the question: What determines that Marian Raciborski is considered one of the most outstanding Polish scholars of the 19th and 20th centuries? First of all, the fact that his pioneering work on the Jurassic flora of the region of Krakow resulted in the discovery and development of 70 species of Jurassic plants, brought him international recognition and title of the father of Polish Paleobotany, second, the fact that he was a pioneer of nature conservation and creation of natural and national museums in Poland, and finally that Raciborski was one of the most partisan botanists in Europe at the turn of the 19th and 20th century. His greatest discoveries, e.g. the fact of the formation of species as a result of hereditary changes or the introduction of genes did not, unfortunately, break through to world science, because articles on this subject were published only in Polish publishing houses. So the palms of priority in these cases fell to others. It is also worth noting that Marian Raciborski, raised in the spirit of patriotism, supported the military act of Józef Piłsudski in 1914, although because of his very bad health he could not take an active part in the fight. He died in March 1917 and did not live to see his independent homeland. Leonardo da Vinci said the following: Let us leave behind a good name and a lasting memory among mortals, so that our lives may not pass away in vain. Marian Raciborski also left such a good name and lasting memory. The streets bearing his name, among others, bear witness to this. in Cracow, Gdańsk, Kielce and Ćmielów. In September 2016, he became the patron of the primary school in Brzóstowa, in the village where he was born. An important element commemorating the character of Marian Raciborski will be the resolution of the Polish Sejm expressing appreciation for his [[♪ The bell ♪]] scientific achievements and patriotic attitudes. Marian Raciborski fully deserves this resolution, which is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u143	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club, please speak again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u144	Thank you very much, Marshal. On 17 March 2017 marks the 100th anniversary of the death of Marian Raciborski, an outstanding Polish scholar, a pioneer of the nature conservation movement in Poland, a Pole and a European who studied natural sciences and medicine, first at the University of Poland and then among others. Bonn, Munich, Strasbourg. In Poland, at the time under the partitions, he was a professor, lectured at universities, among others. At the University of Lviv, Jagiellonian University, he later became the director of the Botanical Garden in Cracow, he was also the creator of the Botanical Institute, but above all - and here I address the Members of the PiS who are the initiators of this resolution - he was one of the pioneers who was at the heart of nature conservation in Poland. I am glad - and I say it absolutely without irony - that the PiS parliamentarians presented a draft resolution commemorating the character of Professor Raciborski on the 100th anniversary of his death. But at the same time I wonder what the professor would say today if he saw what was happening to the Polish nature, the trees that are going under the ax in mass in connection with the law that allows uncontrolled logging of trees, and which you, Mr PiS, also supported. The PO will support the draft resolution. Let the character of Prof. Raciborski, who cared about nature, be a role model for your PiS Members. Since you honor, and rightly so, the person of this professor, show by deed that you are close to his ideas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u145	Thank you very much. The statement on behalf of the Kukiz club15 was submitted in writing to the minutes. So I ask Mr Grzegorz Furga to speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u146	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Marian Raciborski was born on 16 September 1863 in Brzóstowa near Ćmielowo. He became famous as an outstanding scientist, he was one of the first Paleobotanists in Poland, pioneer of the nature conservation movement and creator of natural monuments. From a young age he was passionate about the natural world and as a young man of multilateral interest studied natural sciences and medicine at universities in Cracow, Bonn, Munich, Strasbourg, Wrocław and Tybinga. In 1896, he began his 4-year stay on the Indonesian island of Java in the botanical garden there, an important scientific and research centre specialized in research on the flora of Southeast Asia. His work resulted, among others. discoveries of new, unknown species of ferns and parasitic fungi, to which he gave Polish names taken from Romantic works such as Balladyna, Beniowski, Goplana, Kordian. These achievements brought Raciborski fame and recognition. Returning to the country, he brought with him 25 crates containing collected scientific collections and collections of everyday objects, whose collection was equally passionate about him. These collections were later handed over to the Ethnographic Museum in Cracow. After his return, he was appointed professor at the University of Lviv and became a correspondent of the Academy of Skills. In 1912. Raciborski received the title of professor of ordinary botany at the Jagiellonian University and the position of director of the Botanical Garden. The Institute of Botany and the Botanical Garden itself became one of the best scientific centres in a short time. Raciborski not only studied nature, but also fought for its protection. He was one of the pioneers of the nature conservation movement. For years he has been active in this field, extended the concept of a dead nature monument. The first promoted the idea of nature conservation and expansion of natural and national museums. In 1910 he printed a list of historic trees and vegetation collections. Raciborski's activities in the field of popularization of nature conservation issues contributed to the creation in Poland of a separate research discipline covered by academic lectures. World War I did not interrupt the work of the Institute or the activities of the Botanical Garden. 17 March 1917 Marian Raciborski dies in a sanatorium in Zakopane. It leaves behind an extremely rich scientific work covering over 300 publications, among which 116 works concern cytology, anatomy, morphology, plant physiology and floristics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, mentioned today on the 100th anniversary of the departure of Marian Raciborski, his passion for preserving for the next generations the most beautiful specimens of Polish flora, his struggle to establish nature protection laws against human expansion is strangely contrasting with the actions of Minister Szyszka 100 years later. When a wave of clippings passes through Poland, a wave that brings with it often the most beautiful specimens of flora, perhaps it would be better to keep this anniversary quiet? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u147	As far as the club of the Polish People's Party is concerned, the statement was also submitted in writing to the minutes. No one's on the MP list. Since all clubs are in favour of this resolution... The rapporteur, Mr Robert Kołakowski, wanted to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just two more sentences. I wanted to thank all the clubs very much for supporting this resolution, and I particularly wanted to thank Mr Andrzej Kryj for being the initiator and thanks to him we reminded this great figure of the Polish scholar. However, well, opposition - I don't know if it's worth referring to - maybe it's enough to say that, ladies and gentlemen, you don't always have to beat the foam, because I don't think it's necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u149	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Raciborski was born in the memorable year 1863 - a year marked in Polish history by the January Uprising. In Krakow he started pioneering research on flora of previous geological epochs. He dealt mainly with fossil floras of Paleozoic and Mesozoic from the area of Poland. He developed one of the richest Jurassic plants in the world, which was discovered in Grojc near Krakow. Thanks to this research he gained the honorable title of the father of Polish paleobotany. His most important Paleobotanical works are: flora of Kraków refractory clays, retic flora in the Tatras and other fossil plants. During his stay in Java, he studied the flora of the western ferns of Java. During several days of expeditions, which covered vast areas of the island, he collected ferns. Within just six months, he wrote a paper describing 385 species of ferns, including 10 new, unknown science. These researches and discoveries brought Raciborski fame and recognition among scholars. In the second half of 1900 he returned to Poland with a well-established position and a rich scientific acquis. First, he sent all his wealth packed in 25 crates. It contains scientific collections: mushrooms, ferns and seed plants, as well as books, museum exhibits, and a collection of 81 dolls of puppet theatre (wajang-kaju) and shadow theatre (wajang-purwo) and a rich collection of weapons and everyday objects. In 1904. Marian Raciborski was elected president of the Polish Society of Naturalists. Copernicus. This is the best proof of his appreciation among national scholars. In his pedagogical work he also initiated the so-called. botanical Thursdays, which means weekly meetings of naturalists of various disciplines. It is in them that the beginnings of the Polish Botanic Society established in 1922 should be seen. In 1912 the botanical Thursdays were moved to Kraków. Raciborski not only studied nature, but also fought for its protection. He was one of the pioneers of the nature conservation movement. He extended the concept of a natural monument to specimens of a dead nature: rocks, waterfalls, lakes. The first promoted the idea of nature conservation and expansion of natural and national museums. Raciborski left behind a very rich scientific work of about 300 publications. Its collective development of Flora Poland is of particular importance. In addition to Raciborski's publications, he also left several prosperous scientific centres, mostly created from scratch, rich museum collections gathered in Java, which he gave to the Krakow ethnographic museum. Józef Rostafiński, under whose eye Raciborski took the first steps in the world of science, said about him: In the last 80 years Poland has released three unique measures of scholars: Marcely Nencki, Maria Curie-Skłodowska and Marian Raciborski. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of the resolution commemorating the outstanding Polish scientist Marian Raciborski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor Marian Raciborski, graduate of the Jagiellonian University, also expanded his knowledge in Strasbourg, Bonn, Wrocław and Tybinga. Then, too, he began publishing numerous scientific articles. After finishing his studies he became an assistant at the Botanical Garden in Krakow. As a Polish botanist, one of the first paleobotanists was also one of the first in Poland and Europe to promote the idea of nature conservation and an activist of the movement to save endangered species. His work is a huge contribution to Polish science. Research into the flora of the island of Java has brought him international fame. He was happy to share his scientific achievements. Its library and scientific materials were posthumously transferred and incorporated into the library of the University. He is also the patron of the Mountain Botanical Garden at the Tatra Museum in Zakopane. The PSL Club supports the adoption of a resolution on honoring the memory of Prof. Marian Raciborski on the 100th anniversary of his death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u152	We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act (prints No 1288 and 1303). I would like to ask Mr Mark Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u153	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the committee on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act in print no. 1288. The aim of the proposed project is to eliminate the interpretative doubts regarding the exemption from excise duty of wholly contaminated ethyl alcohol and the mutual recognition of the procedures for its contamination by all Member States of the European Union, as well as the continuous monitoring of the quantities of wholly contaminated ethyl alcohol purchased from the Member States of the Union. I would like to remind you that the first reading of this project took place at the 36th meeting of the Sejm on 24 February this year, during which a request was made to reject the project at first reading. This proposal, as you know, was not approved by the High House and the proposal was addressed to further work in the committee for consideration. The Committee on Public Finances considered the draft at its meeting on 7 March 2017, during which legislative and editorial amendments were tabled and adopted. During the committee's work, objections were raised to the proposal to adopt the draft law in its entirety, which, as a result of the vote, the committee cast 34 votes in favour with 4 votes against. Dear Marshal! High Seym! On the conclusion, I would like to say that the Committee on Public Finance, after careful consideration of this draft law, recommends that the High House adopt the draft submitted in the print report 1303. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u154	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would also ask Mr Mark Pole to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u155	Thank you again. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present to you and your fellow Members our position on the government draft law amending the excise duty Act in print No 1288 and the report of the Committee on Public Finance, published in print No 1303. The main objective of the proposed project is to eliminate interpretation doubts in the legislation on excise duty exemptions for completely contaminated ethyl alcohol and the mutual recognition of the procedures for its contamination within the Member States of the Union, as referred to by both the Council Directive and the Regulation of the European Commission. The reasons for the submission of this regulation are irregularities related to the disinfection of totally contaminated ethyl alcohol by measures applied by one Member State which can easily be removed by eliminating the durability of its total contamination, which constitutes the basis for excise duty exemption. Therefore, only the production, acquisition of intra-Community alcohol and imports of ethyl alcohol totally contaminated with only measures authorised by all Member States of the European Union and additional measures authorised by the country in which the contamination occurs, as well as additional measures authorised by our country will result in exemption from excise duty. The draft also provides for continuous monitoring of the quantities of wholly contaminated alcohol purchased from the Member States of the Union by imposing an obligation on entities acquiring compulsory registration as taxable persons of excise duty to the competent tax authority and informing it of the planned quantity of the acquisition. It will also be necessary to determine the planned estimated consumption of completely contaminated alcohol and to indicate the places of business. It is worth noting at this point that the proposed amendments will not result in a tax obligation because completely contaminated ethyl alcohol is compulsoryly exempt from excise duty in all Member States of the European Union. Therefore, the proposed solutions will neither increase expenditure nor reduce revenue from the public finance sector, as the excise exemptions in question are in the current legal state and the proposed amendments are more specific. To sum up, our club is in favour of implementing the proposed amendments and will vote in favour of them, as recommended by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position on the government draft law amending the excise duty law. As my previous speaker said, EU law provides for the exemption from excise duty of wholly contaminated alcohol. This is regulated by the October 1992 Directive on the harmonisation of the structure of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages, commonly referred to as the Alcohol Directive in the slang of taxpayers. For alcohol contamination are used: a uniform disinfectant, so-called. the europolluter, or additional contaminating measures applied in the individual Member States. However, it must be said that some national contaminating measures, including in particular the Hungarian contaminater, are, firstly, unsustainable and also easy to remove, which facilitates tax fraud. In Poland there are many such frauds. At the same time, following the wording of the provisions, our courts allowed an interpretation that ethyl alcohol could be contaminated in any way permitted in any Member State, including the Hungarian method. Against this background, it should be pointed out that the regulation contained in the draft is currently being assessed and deserves a positive assessment, as it removes the interpretation doubts raised by the existing wording. Of course, it is in line with European Union law. According to the regulations contained in the project in the case of production in Poland the exemption will be subject to ethyl alcohol contaminated either by a eurocoagulant or by additional measures authorised by Poland, thus eliminating the facilitation of tax fraud. Therefore, as I said earlier, this project deserves a positive assessment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15. Here you go, another performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Hello, young people gathered at the gallery. I am pleased that you will be able to listen to and see how EU directives, governing groups and total opposition want to harm Polish entrepreneurs and discriminate against foreign entrepreneurs. [[Applause]] The bill we're talking about is what everyone sees. This is a clear discrimination against Polish entrepreneurs vis-à-vis foreign entrepreneurs. I talked about this at the first reading in the plenary room, I also explained it yesterday in the Committee on Public Finance, and I explained it to individual parliamentarians from different clubs. Unfortunately, as I can see, it does not seem to be my struggle to defend freedom of economic activity, in defence of Polish entrepreneurs. As I see it, the government's priorities are different. First of all is the knee-pressing of the Polish taxpayer and Polish entrepreneur, squeezing every penny and patching every gap, even at the expense of the right to property, even at the expense of freedom of business. In turn for the total opposition the EU directives are more important than the interest of the Polish entrepreneur. It is sad that Kukiz15 alone stands up for the Polish entrepreneur, defends the taxpayer and opposes this open discrimination. Maybe not everyone understood what the problem was, so I'll try to repeat my argument and explain again why this bill is terrible. In previous governments, under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, without any change of law officials began to apply a rather strange new interpretation of the law, which in practice makes it impossible to contaminate alcohol for industrial purposes in Poland. It should be mentioned here, which is very important, that at the same time imports of alcohol contaminated in a similar way from abroad were allowed without any restrictions. This makes it impossible for a Polish entrepreneur to contaminate alcohol with other methods that are allowed in other countries, while alcohol contaminated with these methods can be imported into Poland. So in Poland there is an award for industrial alcohol contaminated abroad by foreign entrepreneurs. As you can see, in Poland only foreign companies can count on normality. In this dispute the Supreme Administrative Court granted the right to Polish entrepreneurs - fortunately. This opened up the chance for the Polish economy that we would be able to contaminate alcohol ourselves instead of bringing it back from abroad. Unfortunately, the Government of Law and Justice decided to continue this rogue policy of looting Polish entrepreneurs. I would like to appeal to all Members for a moment of caution, to consider whether it is worthwhile under the pressure of the EU directive, under pressure to look for absolutely every gap in the tax system so openly discriminate against Polish entrepreneurs, to lead to a situation where an entrepreneur in Hungary will have a huge advantage over an entrepreneur in Poland. This is one example of such discrimination, but such examples are very many, practically in every law regulating our economic life. Therefore, I would ask that such a symbol of the fight against this discrimination be the rejection of this law. I ask you to reject this bill during Friday's vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u160	Mr Michał Jaros will perform on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u161	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement concerning the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act, in print no. 1288 and 1303. The project provides for the introduction into the excise tax law of solutions which are intended to eliminate fraud concerning the marketing of completely contaminated ethyl alcohol. The turnover of such alcohol would be subject to increased control. These changes would be achieved by eliminating interpretation doubts in the use of excise duty exemptions contrary to the objectives of the Alcohol Directive and the provision of Regulation No 162/2013 of the European Union Commission. According to the aforementioned ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court, alcohol contaminated by methods authorised in any European Union country, i.e. not only a euro-polluter, but also a virtuous Latvian or Hungarian, is exempt from excise duty. However, the amendment of the excise duty law will result in only alcohol contaminated by a europolluter or a Polish equivalent being released from excise duty in Poland, while it will still be possible to import alcohol contaminated by other contaminants from the European Union. This type of alcohol will therefore be authorised, but its production in Poland will be banned. This means that there will be some degree of restriction of freedom of economic activity, and what is important, this restriction will be discriminatory in relation to entrepreneurs from certain countries of the European Union. The amendment also imposes new burdens on entities involved in the acquisition of completely contaminated intra-Community alcohol, which according to the Ministry of Finance operate in Poland about 35. I know it's only 35 companies, but for the Modern Club, every modern company is equally important whether there are 35 or 35,000 companies, we will fight for each one, so that it has equal rights on the market not only in Poland but also in Europe. Those amendments provide for the obligation to register as a taxable person excise duty and the obligation to notify the intended acquisition of intra-Community goods to the competent head of the customs office. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club I'd like to present our position in modern times. We are free to vote on this project. Some Members will of course support this project, and all those who believe that this bill is discriminatory with regard to Polish entrepreneurs will vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u162	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska to present her speech on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of committees, prints no. 1288 and 1303. This project was examined at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and was positively assessed. At the same time, the Commission has made a number of minor legislative amendments, but I will remind you of the main assumptions of this project, because this is a rather important project to regulate excise matters as regards contaminated alcohol. The project mainly concerns the introduction of a uniform procedure for total alcohol contamination in the European Union and is therefore intended to address the doubts about the use of excise duty exemption in the case of completely contaminated ethyl alcohol. And here comes the definition of what it means to be completely contaminated, introduced by European Commission Directive 3199/93 on mutual recognition of procedures for the total contamination of ethyl alcohol for the purposes of exemption from excise duty. In general, however, the issue of excise duty exemption for ethyl alcohol is regulated. the October 1992 alcohol directive on the harmonisation of the structure of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. The aim of the proposal is, as has already been emphasised here, to resolve the interpretative doubts arising from this directive. Once this right has been changed, the right to exemption from excise duty will be granted in respect of purely contaminated ethyl alcohol: in the case of a procedure applied by all Member States and the application of a contaminating agent, so-called. Europollutant, in the case of an additional procedure notified by the Member State and the application of additional contaminating measures applied in certain Member States. As has already been said, various measures have been applied so far. We used the Hungarian procedure. It turned out that they were unstable, easy to discard, which did not permanently secure contaminated alcohol. The draft law - I will add - requires operators to register as a taxable person excise duty and notify the proposed intra-Community acquisition to the tax authority. These reports, which are quite detailed, allow for the ongoing collection of information on ethyl alcohol purchased intra-Community and marketing of such alcohol. Honestly, I'm a little surprised to hear from the Member of the Kukiz Club15. I would like to ask him how he got this information, where he read that it was our entrepreneurs who would be discriminated against. At times I had the impression that this was some joyful work, but I am still hoping for a substantive addition to our beliefs by the Minister. Finally, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u164	Thank you, Member. On the list of MPs... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr President, I will not give you the floor because you cannot be asked a question. [[But she mentioned my name. I'd like to correct.]] No, I'm not giving you the floor. Sit down, this is not a stage for Members to answer Members' questions. Let's move on to asking questions. There's three people on the list. Anyone else want to sign up? [[I'm signing up.]] Please, four people, no one else. I'm closing the list. In this connection, Mr Marek Polak, the Law and Justice Club, asks the first question. You're welcome. [[Some mistake, not me.]] You don't ask. I have your name on my list, hence the reading. In that case, Mr Vladimir Nykiel. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u165	At first, I would like to stress, because the question here was not so much a question as to the opposition, so I would like to stress that the European Union directive applies to the Polish standardifier. It may be a legislator, it may be a lower order, but the directive is in force. And the question I have for the Minister is: What is the scale of the fraud that has already been made to prevent the legislation being assessed today? And the danger of contamination of ethyl alcohol in Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hungarian method? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a very specific question to the Minister: Do you think this bill discriminates against Polish entrepreneurs in the European Union's common market? If so, how and why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u168	Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15. Only, Mr Tokarska, ask a question, not argue with Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u169	There will be a question, not to the Member, but to the Minister, of course. I wanted to ask if the Minister is aware that the adoption of this project will result in discrimination against Polish entrepreneurs. Because alcohol contaminated by methods, for example. Hungarian or others, which will not be allowed in Poland, will be able to be brought to Poland, so it will not eliminate the practice of disinfection of this alcohol, but will only cause that Polish entrepreneurs will not be able to contaminate alcohol in this way. And has the Minister been familiar with the report of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, which dealt with this topic in 2014 and calculated losses for the Polish economy due to such an approach, from such regulations, amounting to around 1000 jobs and PLN 55 million losses for the state budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u170	Thank you very much for your questions. I would like an answer from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the Members who have engaged in the process of this document. This is a novel of the excise tax law, a government project, really important and necessary because, after the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, which was cited here, it became possible for entrepreneurs to interpret and apply the general interpretation which the Minister of Finance issued in 2014 in the wake of a regulation of the European Union, which was symmetrical to what was regulated by the draft of this law. Nevertheless, the point of the dispute about whether this regulation is needed is one thing. Well, we would like to be sure - and as a state we have the full right - that contaminated alcohol, which is exempt from excise duty, which is quite an important price-creating element of the final price of alcohol products intended for consumption, will not result in an increase in the grey zone and unfair competition for people who operate within the tax system of the Polish state. The fact is that we have the most information from customs on irregularities related to the functioning of imports into Poland of alcohol contaminated by the Hungarian method, which is so specific and different from other methods - from the European or Polish method, from the so-called. Europolluter or Polish standards - that itself, almost without any additional activities, is self-degraded and this alcohol often goes into secondary circulation and is directed to consumption, which clearly determines that it should be treated as material, as a product that can also be a health risk and is harmful. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of whether entrepreneurs in Poland can lose on this novel is important, but it seems that, in addition to representatives of one of the parliamentary clubs, who consistently try to govern the work on this novel, on this project - I will remind you that following the decision of this club to submit a request for rejection of this document at first reading, the work on it increased by at least 2 weeks and that today, or actually yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, we were faced with a re-sample of this type - we do not find, because we have carried out a public consultation, confirmation of such a position, at least in documents sent to us following an inquiry to entities that bring together producers and traders in this segment. These were, I will mention: Polish Union of Cosmetic Industry, Polish Association of Cosmetics Manufacturers and Cleanliness Products, National Chamber of Biofuels, Polish Chamber of Chemical Industry, National Council of Gorges and Production of Biofuels, National Chamber of Commerce, Employers of the Republic of Poland, Business Centre Club, Polish Organization of Oil Industry and Trade, Polish Chamber of Liquid Fuels, Chamber of Commerce, Confederation of Leviathan, Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, Polish Aerozole Association, Polish Aerozolowa Federation, Council of Social Dialogue. None of these entities objected in the course of the consultation to the prohibition of alcohol contamination in Poland by the Hungarian method. I will remind you that in Poland this alcohol can be contaminated by two methods, i.e. European and according to Polish standards, while the regulation we are talking about is quite simple, it is obvious, it introduces a symmetry of formal obligations, the same as for imported products from which excise duty was paid, i.e. we want registration of operators and we want information on imports. It's actually very simple, basic regulation. The novel has therefore not aroused a great deal of interest. For example, the Association of Employers Polish Spirit Industry supported the efforts of the Ministry of Finance to reduce the grey zone in the circulation of completely contaminated alcohol, while the other organizations did not object to the processed changes. Mr Nykiel asked about the scale of the phenomenon. I'll call in the data, they're like this. According to estimates, the Customs Service could not be used in a way that was not intended for use, e.g. In 2014, 2,7 3.3 million l of 100 percent ethyl alcohol, and in the following year it was about 5.5 million l. So here we are dealing with estimated volumes, and therefore they have not found such a linear analytical reference in the impact assessment of the regulation, we do not want to go ahead with a number of important data, which should then be argued about, we are looking at a suspicion of the functioning of this product in the grey zone, but if we were to count the quantities that I referred to as excise duties, it would be hundreds of millions of zlotys. Thus, a delay of up to two weeks on this law has a specific financial dimension. That is why it seems a valid question, especially in the context of the information I presented following the public consultation we have done. It is about identifying, calling for entities who do not at the moment accept this form of equalisation of the conditions of competitiveness and proper functioning on the market in this field in Poland. I thank all parliamentarians, ladies and gentlemen for their commitment to the drafting of this document. We are, of course, at our disposal all the time. I ask you kindly to accept this document. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u172	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order and amending certain other laws (Print No. 1295). I ask Mr Paweł Grabowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a draft law amending the Tax Order and amending some other laws, i.e. print no.1295, printing by Members of the Kukiz Club15, which is a practical implementation of the so-called. Monday of freedom. The Kukiz Posel Club offers legislative solutions every Monday to facilitate, simplify legislation, facilitate the use of the whole system, which is often complicated, illegible to the citizen, and one of the most excellent examples of how complicated this system is is the multitude of tax deadlines that citizens, especially entrepreneurs, have to look after to settle different taxes. High Izbo! Today we deal with 9 days a month. Every citizen, entrepreneur who is obliged to pay taxes, has nine days when he should make a declaration of payment of the tax. More specifically, they regulate this matter as many as 63 regulations in the Polish tax system and this number is already alarming. It is appalling that the entrepreneur must ensure that by the seventh we pay PCC, the ZUS must be paid to the tenth if the business is carried out on its own, by the fifteenth - for example agricultural tax, to the twentieth - income tax, to the twenty-fifth - VAT. Here, of course, I am going to say ahead of time that the formal contribution of the Social Security Office is not a tax, but it is in fact a tax burden, because if there is an economic activity, employees or self-employed people have to be paid, so this is also a burden on entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the proposal to solve this problem? 'Cause that's the problem when an entrepreneur has to make sure that today's ten or nine or twelve or his deadline is over. There is a country in the world where this solution has been put into practice. This is Ireland. In Ireland, it is proposed, in fact, that all taxes should be settled by the 23rd day of the month following the month to which the accounts relate. What does the Kukiz Club propose? We are proposing a uniform tax day, i.e. a single time limit to which declarations should be made and the tax and various other tax charges should be settled accordingly, and that date would be the last day of the month following the month to which the accounts relate. And now what are the advantages of this solution? First of all, simplicity, simplicity and simplicity again. If, as I mentioned, 63 laws regulate this matter today, we are not able to eliminate these 63 provisions and replace one, but we can make 63 laws similar or the same, they will set a date for one day, the last day of the month, and that is what we propose. What are the benefits for citizens, for entrepreneurs? This is where I'm gonna focus on entrepreneurs. First of all, simplicity in tax settlement. On the other hand, we propose to postpone the tax settlement deadline in the shortest version by 5 days - this applies to VAT, while in the case of taxes such as PCC it is almost 3 weeks, in the case of ZUS settled today to the tenth it is about 20 additional days. How will this translate into business activity? In fact, thanks to this solution, we increase the tax liquidity of Polish entrepreneurs, Polish companies, companies that operate in Poland. And that's why we're prolonging, we're increasing their so-called. cash flow that money also has its price in time. Where large or medium-sized enterprises benefit e.g. from credit lines, they operate not only on the basis of their own resources, their own cash, but also on the basis of resources obtained e.g. from a bank in the form of credit lines, then, if such an entrepreneur does not have to pay the tenth or twenty-five, or the fifteenth, or the twentieth contribution to the Social Security Office or the advance payment on the tax or tax, the money will stay longer in his pocket, in his pocket, and, consequently, he will be able to trade it longer, so that his business costs will be reduced because such an entrepreneur will not have to borrow this money, for example. from the bank. Therefore, this is a solution which we consider to have the advantages itself, although it was signalled a problem that I would like to address immediately at the outset, because I suppose that from the plenary room from the mouth of the Members of the House there will be such charges that this project does not take into account the state of the infrastructure of the tax system in Poland, that the accumulation of several deadlines in one could cause the tax office to be blocked or hinder the work of accountants. Nothing like that. Well, that kind of argument might be valid if we had 1974 or 1984 today, not 2017, when most of the accounts are made in electronic form. Today, few people are going to the tax office with their books filled out by hand, where officials have to check whether they register the data, declarations or documents that affect them. We have an electronic turnover, so when it comes to the sphere of tax offices, we don't see here the danger or the problem that offices can block. On the other hand, as regards the method of accounting for entrepreneurs, e.g. by accountants, I would like to point out that here we are proposing a de facto shift of this term forward, in the case of VAT by 5 days, income tax by about 10 days etc., we are giving more and more days, in fact giving freedom to entrepreneurs. With regard to the services provided to them by accountants, there is nothing to prevent the accountant from establishing, within the framework of established civil law relations with entrepreneurs, that they will account for themselves as they have done so far, i.e. according to this complex system of many deadlines, for many days if this situation is more convenient for those who account for it, and if such a situation is acceptable to entrepreneurs. We do not want to interfere with relations between operators who provide services to entrepreneurs, but we want to give freedom to these entrepreneurs and, above all, to facilitate the system so that it is transparent and citizen-friendly. This is one of the first steps in which we are trying to deal with this difficult matter, as well as with the resistance of state institutions and the resistance of the state apparatus, which has led to a situation where, by complicate the system, for example the tax system, it really makes it a repressive state, hostile to the citizen, unclear to the citizen. It is a country where it is easy to start an economic activity, but it is difficult to do it in practice. So, ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to support our project, which is an expression, and I stress this once again, economic freedom. I call on the state to give economic freedom to Polish citizens, to increase the level of economic freedom for Polish citizens and Polish companies. Finally, I will show quite briefly: this is more or less what the table looks like with a multitude of regulations that regulate the deadlines for filing tax returns and paying taxes in Poland. We propose that we replace two pages with one record that this will be the last day of the month. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u174	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Lech Szbek will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order and certain other laws. The present parliamentary bill amending the Tax Order provides for the introduction of a uniform deadline for the submission of declarations and the settlement of taxes and social security contributions, i.e. the last day of the month following the reporting period, the settlement. For the first look, the proposed solution seems very attractive. Nevertheless, if we look at details and look not only at the world of entrepreneurs, but also at the fact that there is a budget of a country that also performs specific tasks, as well as these institutions, such as the Social Insurance Institution and the KRUS, it does not seem that simple. First of all, it is worth paying attention to what it draws attention to, among others. in its opinion of the National Bank of Poland, that these changes may also entail negative consequences for companies due to the accumulation of payments and the preparation of billing documents within a single deadline. It is true that the National Chamber of Commerce says that this is not entirely a valid charge, because it is only a time limit, but it has already been said by the Member that no one will pay before, will wait for the end of this term. What does that mean? The possible entry into force of the above amendment in the form of a deadline would significantly impede the implementation of the State budget at the end of the year. This part of the opinion of the National Bank of Poland is worth analysing, Mr. That's one thing. Second, you praised, among other things. the situation of shifting the deadline, in the case of VAT by 5 days, the remaining one by even more. But remember one thing that the entrepreneur will later pay the ZUS contribution, but the ZUS must pay the benefit. You're happy that the entrepreneur has more money because it doesn't charge his bill. And he doesn't have to take credit, but the state budget has to borrow to pay the right benefits. So it's not as simple a solution as it would seem in your opinion. Nevertheless, despite these many weaknesses - I would like to point out that instead of a smooth flow of payments, we will have jumping receipts of payments which also disorganize the functioning of the state budget - the club will not submit a request for rejection at first reading. We propose that the project be directed to further work in the Committee on Public Finance, among others. to that end, in order to make a full inventory of the time limits and their justification. Certainly not in the form that this project proposes, but perhaps some of the deadlines could be consolidated from the two sides that you presented, perhaps not in the form of one position, but a smaller number perhaps so. The conclusions of consultation of a number of operators and economic organisations, taking into account the above, could be taken into account in the forthcoming tax change plans. Therefore, this is the point of our opinion: referral to further work in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u176	Thank you. The Civic Platform Club, on its behalf, will be attended by Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order and amending certain other laws, print No. 1295. The draft law aims to harmonise the time limits for the submission of tax returns and the payment of taxes, advances or social security contributions. In the current legal situation, these terms are different. According to the designers, there are nine different dates. The project assumes that, regardless of the type of tax advance or the tax itself, these obligations shall be paid up to the last day of the month following the month for which the settlement is made. According to the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has such a large number of deadlines There is no doubt that it makes it difficult for businesses to do business. However, we have doubts that setting a single payment deadline for all taxes will also make it difficult for companies in a certain sense to keep this deadline very difficult for them. It is not exactly that it will improve the financial liquidity of entrepreneurs. After all, many entrepreneurs are in such a situation that they actually pay their commitments on an ongoing basis, and the accumulation of these commitments can cause them trouble. But let's be clear that not everyone pays as much as nine taxes. It's not exactly like that. We know that only KGHM pays the fossil tax. Agricultural tax or forestry tax, yes, some companies pay, but then they don't pay other taxes, e.g. from real estate. Not everyone pays a civil-law tax, and if they pay, it's occasionally when it happens. The same applies to flat-rate income tax or local taxes and charges, except, of course, property tax, because this is a fairly obvious universality here. So that half of these taxes are not always paid, at least not so widely. That's what I'm saying from practice. Despite these doubts that need to be discussed, we are open to discussing this project. We believe that a detailed analysis should be carried out and that it is really necessary to determine how much these taxes are paid by companies and whether this cumulation will be beneficial for them. 'Cause it's, I think, basically, that this idea doesn't hurt, because sometimes it does. On behalf of the club, I request that the bill be submitted for further legislative work, for further discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u178	Mr Maciej Masłowski, the Kukiz club15, will make a statement on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know what Monday of freedom is? Monday of freedom is a project of the Kukiz club15, which serves to simplify the law. Even before we got to the Sejm, we promised voters that among others. we will simplify the law, which is so heavy, which is incomprehensible, intricate, it is perhaps one of the most complicated in Europe. We promised we'd deregulate those records, those legal records that I think we have... We are almost leaders, or at least we are at the forefront of lawmaking in Europe. As part of this Monday, freedom was created, among others. This project. This project wants to simplify the law, and it is known that if we simplify the law, the cost of legal service is falling, because we no longer need a whole host to spend long hours on interpretation, because the law can be simple. So what do we suggest? The following simplification. After all, you know that today there are 9 deadlines for 14 taxes. How is that possible? Imagine that. Abroad, as I talk to people from abroad, they wonder. With us there is a ZUS, payable until the 10th day of each month - I know that it is not a tax, but it is a tax, so we can say to ourselves - income tax, payable up to 20., VAT - up to 25. and the more diverse the activity, the more there are these deadlines that the entrepreneur has to follow. Here Mrs Czernow, my previous speaker, said that not all these taxes pay. All right, I'll say yes, but there are those who pay, and they have to follow it. Why can't it be like Ireland where there's one tax day? Everyone checks their taxes until the 23rd day of the following month, and I'm already skipping how easy it is. Let us remember that we are constantly moving forward, that computerization continues, that today very often it is one click, of course after all, but these are computer systems, that you can do. In any case, the benefits of this project are very great, the benefits of the very fact that it is this Monday of freedom. 'Cause we're gonna hang out here a lot. I'm performing again, and I think it's gonna be like this in a little while, you know, tradition that I'm coming in and convincing you about the projects of the Kukiz club15, which are either civil projects, but they're just filed as MPs, because we still have a difficult procedure for collecting signatures under civil projects... I come and convince you that our solutions are good. And this Monday of freedom, among others. That's what it's for. This Monday we submitted a project, in fact, to the European Commission to reduce VAT on clothes and children's shoes. Because we have 23% today, and we asked if we could 8% because I know that in 2012 the Platform and the PSL raised, because the European Commission imposed it, with 7%. Then the Law and Justice said, "We will lower." It's been a year and a half, nothing happened, so we thought we'd help, that's what we're here for. So we sent out this question and another project. Today we are going to talk about one more project, about simplifying the whole VAT declaration, but it's about an hour and a half. Ladies and gentlemen, there can be such absurdities that today it is better, more profitable to buy a wheelchair in the USA and bring it to Poland, send it to Poland than to buy it from us. Because because of this tax, e.g. For this cart, to buy it in Europe, it becomes completely uneconomical. I'm not talking about buying it in Poland anymore. And that's what Monday freedom is for. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill that we are currently debating is a form of deregulation, which is simplification, as I said earlier, a complex system. Although, of course, we at Kukiz15 dream of it being the same as in Romania, where more than 100 taxes and taxes of a tax nature have been removed from the legal system, making the system simple and more transparent and transparent, it is citizen-friendly. Therefore, as it is understandable, we as Kukiz.15 will support this project. I hope that my colleague Grabowski, as an applicant, will answer your doubts. I am glad, I hope, that we will discuss, because I can already see the desire of the opposition that we will discuss this project further. It's very important. If there are any shortcomings here, no problem, please report, that's what we're here to correct. But let's simplify people's lives, simplify the rules and make things better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u180	I ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska to present her speech on behalf of Kukiz, I am sorry, Modern, absolutely Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If someone does not understand why there are different deadlines in the tax system for determining tax and other corporate fees, whether small or medium or large, then he simply never ran his own company and does not know what such obligations are related to. Every entrepreneur, every accountant and every contractor knows that the tax settlement day, ZUS or other fees in the company is a particularly sensitive day and no additional fire that day in the company has the right to happen. Breaking up on different social security days, income taxes or goods and services tax is not a coincidence. Such practice is aimed at a good distribution of work in accounting teams, as well as ensuring liquidity in the company's cash register. Each settlement day in small and medium-sized enterprises and in large companies is linked to the obligation to perform numerous activities in the company, as well as to provide funds for payment. For the state budget, it is also a way of ensuring the liquidity of the cash register. Liquidity or lack of liquidity is, it has been and will be the main cause of problems of Polish companies for a long time, as well as the main reason for bankruptcy in Poland. Our economy is constantly suffering from a lack of capital and problems with the regulation of commitments. There is a shortage of both working and investment capital compared to many European countries. You can see that in the economic reports. Non-regulation of commitments by some is a lack of cash for payments to others. Therefore, every 5th, 20th and 25th day of the month is in part a day for Polish companies to collect payment appropriations. Modern understands the activity of Polish companies and therefore knows that the breakdown of these deadlines is necessary. The harmonisation of these terms does not favour businesses and their liquidity, nor does it encourage the organisation of work in the company. We are in favour of simplifying the rules for entrepreneurs, because they create the economy and are responsible for creating new jobs, but in this simplification we need to keep common sense, because it is very easy to fire a child with a bath. From the financial point of view of the Treasury, such a solution would be cumbersome, especially in the case of 31 December and annual accounts. Let me remind you that if the tax settlement date is a work-free day, then the settlement should take place on the next working day. In this situation, sometimes December would be settled in December, and sometimes January, because if the thirty-first one were to be settled on Sunday, unfortunately the entire settlement would be after the end of the year. In this situation, the state budget would sometimes include revenue for 11, sometimes for 12 and sometimes for 13 months. The calculation of deficits and expenditure would be practically very difficult, even comparing the scale of activity and the collection of taxes from the State. Increase freedom - yes, but problems cannot be multiplied. Here the Member showed such a long card. The taxes that Polish entrepreneurs pay are actually a lot, but this solution that you are proposing will not make these taxes less. In fact, he knows that he will not make the number of items on this card smaller. They're gonna be the same... they're gonna be as many as they're gonna be, but they're gonna be broken, it's gonna be a day. I know it's easy to say that accounting teams and companies can collect this money, but money in Polish companies is always missing and there is always something to spend it on, and always is. So in some way this accepted billing model is convenient. The fact is, the system could be a little simplified, but in order to simplify the system, it would have to be done. it is in agreement with government agencies which would draw up appropriate programmes for this purpose. To break these terms in a few terms, actually three, four instead of nine, seems rational, but in one - absolutely not. As I said, the project does not solve many problems that would result from this change, such as the famous December 31st. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nevertheless, we are proposing to work on it in the committee, but allowing at most a few deadlines, because this proposal that has been presented today is absolutely not a proposal to be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u182	Thank you very much. The speech on behalf of the Modern Club was presented by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. And now she will speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party by Mrs Genowef Tokarska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the draft law amending the Tax Order and amending certain other laws, print no. 1295. Indeed, the project includes changes in as many as 15 different tax laws and, I would say, insurance companies, i.e. from the Tax Order, through the VAT Act, all income taxes, to the Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act, the Excise Tax Act. So it's 15 different sets. The amendments to all laws concern the harmonisation of the time limit for the submission of tax returns and the payment of taxes or advances or social security contributions. As we know, it has been said, these terms are very different, there are nine different dates for different days of the month. The authors of the project propose that, regardless of the type of tax, an advance on the tax or the tax itself should be paid until the last day of the month following the month for which the settlement is made. Tax returns are also to be submitted within the same period. So this is a typical standardization. In the opinion of the National Bank of Poland, the Member has already drawn attention to this, the NBP stresses that, not necessarily a uniform deadline means a convenience for entrepreneurs, because there will be a cumulation of accounts. Here, she also talked about the liquidity and financial condition of our companies, and all this agrees: there will be a cumulation of expenditure. In turn, the record of the deadline is: by the day, so it doesn't have to be on the last day, you can spread it out, put it in a little bit earlier. I would like to say that this harmonisation of deadlines is not contrary to European Union law. The Union does not impose restrictions here, in this respect Member States retain procedural autonomy. As for the evaluation of the project, it seems that it is a simple project, that it is a simple solution. In the initial phase, it will certainly cause some confusion, especially as regards annual accounts, so at the end of December, but ultimately, it seems reasonable and positive to organise the business and reduce its costs. Similar solutions to those submitted already exist in some countries. Nevertheless, I think we would be looking forward to a debate on this particular amendment involving entrepreneurs, namely those who are directly interested. We didn't talk about it today, it didn't sound like it, but this change is linked to the change in all the tax programs that exist both in business and in tax authorities. It seems that these are such simple technical matters, but they will require some modification, addition and transition to a different form. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing this project to work in committee. Maybe we can work out a good final project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneus will gain on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Posel Wheels. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the proposal for a parliamentary bill amending the Tax Order and amending certain other laws, print no. 1295. The draft envisages amending the Tax Order and other tax and social security laws by harmonising all applicable deadlines for payment of taxes and contributions and time limits for filing tax returns. Applicants propose that for 14 different taxes and danin, among others. PIT, CIT, VAT, ZUS and KRUS contributions, excise duty, introduce one universal deadline for their settlement, which would be the last day of the following month. There are now nine different deadlines for tax reporting obligations, which in the assessment of applicants is detrimental to businesses and authorities, as it unnecessarily complicates the tax system by generating additional costs. Mostly we're talking about the so-called. the costs of compliance, which arise e.g. where an entity submits incomplete tax documentation in order to maintain a short period of time, which calls for additional time to be devoted to the adjustment. The Free and Solidarni Circle is positive, albeit with some significant reservations, referring to the submitted project. It would seem to agree with the position of the National Chamber of Commerce: from the point of view of entrepreneurs, the harmonisation of deadlines for payment of public-law danins should be regarded as favourable, allowing for more flexible planning of work related to the settlement of danin, but provided that the trader does not postpone tax obligations at the last moment, since the accumulation of deadlines on one day may have consequences in the form of late payment of taxes and other danins which have a particularly negative impact on the implementation of the state budget at the end of the year. In addition, the adoption of the last day of the month will have negative consequences for the social security system as it would result in a negative shift in the payment of pension benefits and other benefits granted to citizens from the Social Insurance Fund. It must be objectively recognised that the legal and social interests of these citizens are as important as the interests of entrepreneurs and must be taken into account. At this point, it is necessary to agree with the suggestion made in the opinion to the draft by the National Bank of Poland, that the uniform deadline for the submission of declarations and the settlement of taxes and contributions should be a day earlier than the last day of the following month proposed in the draft. Since the model for applicants is Ireland, where the deadline for settlement is the 23rd day of the following month, it might be worth thinking about introducing a similar one, perhaps even earlier in respect of this month, in the draft law in question. Furthermore, we are considering the possible negative impact of changing the time limits for making declarations and paying excise duties and VAT on the effectiveness of the solutions implemented by the government in order to seal the tax system. For example, according to data submitted a few days ago by the Bankier portal. en adoption of the fuel package introduced in August ub. in the scope of, inter alia, the payment of VAT by the registered consignee within a few days while the obligation to verify and identify the actual customer of the fuel effectively eliminated a significant part of the illicit trade in fuel from the market. According to data from the Ministry of Finance, the increase in legal sales in August 2016 resulted in a reduction in the grey zone, which accounted for around 30% of total consumption in Poland. I ask the applicant's representative to address the question of the relationship between the change in the date of payment of excise duty and VAT and the possible impact of the introduction of this arrangement on the effectiveness of the tax system's sealing. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle welcome the bill submitted and request that the proposal be submitted for further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Klawiter, not associated, will also speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The economy needs freedom from overregulation and bureaucracy - this sentence from our economic programme, the programme of the Right of the Republic, which I represent, defines our approach to the parliamentary project that we are considering today. Our party agrees with the assumptions prepared by the members of the Kukiz Club15. We believe that the multiplication of different time limits for payment of taxes and the submission of tax returns is completely unjustified. Simple law can be one of the foundations of faster economic development. In this case, if someone wants to apply an old, traditional arrangement, they can do it, there are no obstacles. Even if it has a rigid computer program, it stays with it, but it has economic freedom and can regulate it. So that we will be in favour of further discussing the details of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u188	Thank you very much. Four people were enrolled on the list of Members. Would any of your fellow Members like to sign up? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club, will be the first to ask the question. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u189	Dear Marshal! Mr. Complainer! I would like to ask what is the amount of money that can be left in the pockets of entrepreneurs in general as a result of the transfer of these payments to the last day of the month. At the same time, it will be the same amount of money that will be missing from the Social Insurance Fund and the tax office. Therefore, if there are such analyses, I would ask you to present them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Lech Sprawka, club Law and Justice, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! They provoked me to ask the question of both Members of the Kukiz movement15, and especially on behalf of the club, because it was emphasized In fact, there is one goal: to simplify and harmonise the deadline. If so, my fellow Members, what prevents an entrepreneur from setting such a uniform deadline, using his own freedom, for example. on the seventh day - because it's probably the first one that works - and there's no problem? Is it not so that the real intention of this project is the latter element, namely to move the deadline by the whole, practically, by the end of the month. But it's important here that we find a common measure of gold. Because the state isn't just [[♪ The bell ♪]] entrepreneurs, but this is also the functioning of the state budget. And it has to meet somewhere along the way: the interests of both of these groups, so that the state actually functions smoothly and well in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u192	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask two questions, which may help us to answer, at least as far as further work is concerned. First question: Did the projectors wonder what the impact on the budgets of local government units - I am not asking about the state budget anymore - will result in these provisions? After all, we must remember that local governments are financing their expenses from taxes. That's one thing. Secondly, have the applicants analysed how many of the taxes we are talking about - which I have already mentioned in my speech - referred to in the project - are entrepreneurs paying? What is the actual scale of the problem? I think we need this very much for discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u194	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the need to simplify the rules that apply to entrepreneurs, there is no doubt and this needs to be done. But the question is, because I assume that this solution is beneficial for companies that actually have a stable situation, have liquidity, have no payment congestion, etc., but a bunch of companies, small companies, these are companies that live in such a good way sometimes from day to day, waiting for their invoice to flow, will have money to pay due tax: Don't you think about... Of course, nine deadlines. It's a lot, and it's making a fuss, but I'd be willing to have some discussion and some amendments on the committee... Don't you think about two dates? Two terms, two or three, but the ones that group these amounts together, so that there is no accumulation, that there is suddenly not all the highest burdens in one period, and in another there are less - to do so so that this freedom actually was [[♪ The bell ♪]] depending on the financial condition of the company. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u196	And the last question will be asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law provides for one simple and clear deadline for submitting tax returns. And when will the tax system be simplified? Does it even make sense to collect so many taxes? In many countries tax collection is waived as collection costs represent a significant part of the revenue. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u198	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this bill. Unfortunately, we don't have a government position at this point. I can present the position of the Ministry. The Ministry of Finance clearly recognises the problem of the complexity of tax law. This complexity has many symptoms, manifests itself in many aspects, beginning with the multitude of public danins that citizens and entrepreneurs bear, as well as in the internal complexity of each of these danins, including the fact that tributes are not synchronized with each other. Similar economic events require very different assessments under two taxes, for example in the case of goods and services tax and income tax, the same events require a very large amount of work to be dealt with correctly. Here is the phrase: overregulation or overlaw. Unfortunately, in many laws we have examples of this type of regulation, which are unnecessary, do not perform any important social or public functions, and unfortunately they are raiding, for many years or even many decades they are present in our laws. I would like to say from this point of view that the position of the Ministry is that we are working on the systematic simplification of individual taxes and their internal synchronization, so as to make it easier for entrepreneurs and their financial and accounting services to be better cleared, not to mention the obvious ones. differences between the premium base in the context of the base e.g. personal income tax, which also seems unjustified in many places. Therefore, when you are aware of the obvious complexity and functional deficiencies of individual taxes, it is clear that the time limits for fees and declarations in individual danins paradoxically facilitate the fulfilment of these complex accounts. And paradoxically, the harmonisation of these terms, in such a purely operational, functional, accounting sense, results in a certain accumulation of obligations. I would like to point out that the government is fighting the VAT fraud plague, and there is a new obligation to file a single control file. Entrepreneurs must at this point have sufficient time to prepare these data for submission to the tax authorities so that they can be a high-quality analytical material to eliminate pathology in VAT settlements. Therefore, the introduction of such a direct one-time limit may cause some difficulties, i.e., significant difficulties in the operational tax settlement itself. Thus, the basic benefit of this project - as it was also said here - is the actual deferral of the deadline by several or several days as regards the budgets of individual companies. This is a clear advantage. At the moment, we are analysing the symmetric effects of this because this advantage for businesses to postpone tax payments until the end of the month is associated with a significant budgetary loss, which, if it were to accept this project directly, as it is written, would entail a multi-billion-dollar additional budget cost and the need to find funding to finance additional lending needs of the State. And in that sense, it is difficult to accept in the version in which it is presented. I would like to share this knowledge here that many or most of the time limits for the repayment of bonds are set at the 25th of each month, which in turn is financed by current revenues flowing from CIT and VAT. Therefore, toby needed to find extraordinary resources, to finance the liquidity gap that this project would have created. This would, of course, also lead to technical problems with the settlement of budget units at the turn of the month and to the accumulation of the problem at the end of the year. It would also have to be the answer to the question of who will finance this liquidity gap vis-à-vis local government units, because if we had maintained the current rate of supply of local government units, we again accumulated a negative liquidity effect on the budget by finding additional funds, unless we were also transferring this effect to local government units, which would also have borne part of this cost of the new regulation. In summary, the Ministry of Finance is fully aware of the problem of complex tax law in many of its dimensions. One of the symptoms of this is the multitude of deadlines for declarations and tax payments. It seems to me that a number of these deadlines can be rationalised even in a short period of time, while such a clear and absolute harmonisation of all deadlines at this point will result in significant budgetary perturbations, but we are working on synchronising and simplifying individual taxes so that, perhaps even in the target system, we can talk about one date, as it is in Ireland, as the applicants have put forward here. At this point in time, we believe that, unfortunately, the multitude of these terms paradoxically facilitates the settlement of these main budgetary revenues. Yes, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u200	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I must thank you very much for the positive, as I receive, receipt of our proposal, our project. Your vote that this project should be addressed to the committee in order to develop acceptable solutions there, to reach consensus, merely confirms the correct diagnosis that we have made that the system is complicated, which I will say in a moment, and it needs to be simplified. Let me briefly refer to the various speeches and questions, because I think that this form of answer will be the best, because what I could say in order to justify the project, I said at the outset, and now I will refer to the different positions. In the case of the Parliamentary Club's position, the Law and Justice expressed by Mr Lech Zrobka, I had the impression that this was the result of a kind of vision of a confronted world, where entrepreneurs confront the state budget. But... [[No.]] That is the conclusion I made, so would you allow me, sir, that... [[Both sides need to see each other.]] On the other hand, in our view, we believe that the budget is made up of citizens, including entrepreneurs. So the state is meant to be for the citizens, not for the citizens, for the state. The fact is that today too should be accounted for, which is why there is an interesting question, and later also asked by your Member, why it is not for entrepreneurs to determine themselves that they will pay, for example. Seven or ten, which is before. That's because we're talking about some kind of duty here. Paying taxes is the duty of every citizen, so it is governed by the law and we want these laws to be least oppressive to the citizen. Therefore, we want to give this freedom, to move these deadlines to the end of the month. And we don't hide it at all, that he walks, among other things. that some of the funds that an entrepreneur would have to pay earlier were left in his money so that he could trade them. I'll give you a concrete example in a moment. The important point that Mr Zrodowska pointed out is that not everyone is waiting until the end of the deadline. In fact, we do not know how many entrepreneurs pay on the last day, and how many entrepreneurs pay earlier. I know from personal experience that there are those who pay as quickly as possible, and there are those who wait until the last day or even miss the deadline of the last day because they don't have the resources to pay taxes. That's a sad thing to do. In any case, I am very pleased with the declaration, some kind of call for inventory. This is definitely necessary. I think that here the Ministry of Finance will also help us to inventory the entire tax system, where, in particular, there may still be rules that need to be found and deregulated in order to actually standardise this tax term. Is that gonna be one term? or two or several, it's actually the committee that's gonna work. The point is to keep the system transparent. I will refer to the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Mrs Czernow pointed out that today's system, the complexity of this system makes it difficult to conduct business. The question arose as to whether one day would hinder this activity or not. At first glance, so logically, I don't think so. I am not convinced, in fact, by such arguments, that if an entrepreneur has to pay all his tax obligations, different tax charges, it will make it difficult for him to conduct business, that is, for this reason - a simple example: if. The micro-entrepreneur running the paper shop is to pay for the ZUS by 10 and according to the new legal condition that we are requesting, he would pay for the ZUS by 31., for example, if 31. would be the last day of the month, then such an entrepreneur gains 3 weeks when this money may still have in his cash register and thus, he can purchase goods, sell this product and have an additional profit with limited cash resources, if for example. does not use credit or does not want to credit for the purchase of various goods that he later wants to sell. The important point that you have also pointed out is that some of the taxes mentioned in the draft are taxes paid infrequently. Exactly. Mr Rometsky also asked, gave an example... It was given an example of Romania. It turns out that maybe some taxes are not really necessary, that the cost of collecting these taxes may not justify that these taxes exist in the Polish tax system at all. So if we are dealing with universal taxes, it is difficult, they must remain, but if there are taxes which are marginal in nature, it may be worthwhile in the committee's work to consider their liquidation. This would certainly be a solution that would please not only entrepreneurs, but also millions of citizens. Speaking of the position of the Modern Posel Club, I'm going to say that Mrs. Hennig-Kloska pointed out... I really sensed some sort of inconsistency in this position, because on the one hand you wanted to point out defending entrepreneurs, and on the other hand you pointed to the interest of the state budget. I think it's worth it in this case... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: There is no inconsistencies here.]] You're saying there's no... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I raised two different points, completely, in my speech.]] I understand that you have raised two different issues, and I have noticed a certain lack of consistency here. Let me put it this way: today's system, the complexity of today's system, is something that can be compared to a glass of cloudy water. It is not worth defending this bureaucracy, complicated system and glass with cloudy water. We would like this to be transparent, as regards various reservations, also related to what the Minister raised, with this so-called one. The gap, that is, from where to get money for this period, which will be sort of moved forward, I am talking about the deadline for paying taxes. Let me put it simply: this is the problem of the Ministry in this case - how to adapt the tax system and the whole fiscal system to make it for the citizen, not the retreat. I repeat this once again, but this should be the essence of what is guided by every Member standing or sitting here in this plenary room, because if we believe that citizens are for us or citizens are for you, we will in fact lead to a warping of the idea of the state itself. An interesting thing - I certainly must admit, even referring to Mrs Hennig-Kloski's speech - is the question of the deadline. If it was, for example. last day of December and so-called the years in which 11, 12 or 13 months could be accounted for... This is a matter that will certainly have to be dealt with on the committee as well. We need to look at this and perhaps we can come up with a deadline that will protect the entire tax system from this type of, say, shortcomings. I will refer again to one aspect of your speech, Madam President. I am pleased with the conclusion that I have drawn from your speech - that you are advocaters in general of reducing the amount of taxes, which also refers in a sense to the speech on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, to the fact that perhaps some taxes in Poland today are unnecessary. There's a way to unify them or merge them. I think that merging or harmonising tax terms will be the first step to making it easier to merge at all this tax system, which unfortunately I often call a tax mess, because it is opaque and unclear to the citizen. As part of her speech on behalf of the Polish People's Party's Parliamentary Club, Mrs Tokarska pointed out that there could be cumulation of expenditure and that it would be uncomfortable that this might be a kind of obstacle for entrepreneurs. Well, it's just that these entrepreneurs' expenses would have to be borne anyway. So I think it's better for the entrepreneur to bear the expense, say, on 30 or 31, than if it has to bear the expense, for example. on 10. Let me remind you, we're talking about the month after the month that's settled. Thus, the entrepreneur in today's system must have this money in advance to transfer it, pay contributions or taxes, and in the case of the solution we have proposed, the entrepreneur has more time in which he can, I repeat once again, spin this money, i.e. make money, increase his income, and thus increase budgetary revenue, including. for income tax. In the event of Mr Profits speaking from the Free and Solidarnia circle, here comes the concept of procrastination, that is, putting everything at the end, for later. I don't think we can look at everyone from this perspective, that everyone moves all their responsibilities and tasks to the last day. As I said before, there are a number of entrepreneurs who account for themselves even earlier than the law requires. Therefore, while referring to Mr Dobrzec's proposal from the PiS, I think there is no point in suggesting to businesses that these taxes should be paid earlier. They usually pay them when they can. I will also refer to the questions of the individual Members who have been asked, to Mr Kobylinski's question. Mr Kobyliński asked what is the whole amount of money that would remain in his pocket or in the register of entrepreneurs. I think we're gonna settle this on the committee. We won't be able to do that until we get the details from the ministry. So this question, I hope, will be answered after the committee's work. In the case of Mr Dobrze's question, I have already answered. It's a clever reversal of that duty. If we don't have to change, maybe it's better... It's a suggestion that instead of changing the bill, it's better to make an appointment for entrepreneurs to impose their own taxes more quickly. Well, I guess that's not how it works. Let me refer to Mrs Czernow's question. Here was the issue of local governments, the question of how it could cause problems in local governments. The Minister also pointed this out. Well, the administration, the local authorities are working for the citizen, they are kind of an emanation of the state, so there can be no, I repeat again, a situation in which this citizen is for the state, for the administration or for officials, not the other way around. This country is supposed to help the citizen function efficiently in its area, within its own territory, not the other way around. Referring to Mr Meysztowicz's question - he asked about small companies: here is this example, which I have already given. If a small trader has more time to pay all the tax charges he is obliged to bear, he will simply be able to purchase the goods - in case it is for example. dealer - sell this product, get an additional income and pay for it in a given month, the next month simply higher income tax. Finally, referring to the position expressed by the Minister, I must say that I am somewhat disappointed that the Ministry of Finance has not issued its position on a project that has already been published. It's not like we're surprising the High House or the Ministry of Design. It's not a project thrown into work yesterday, so it's a pity that this position doesn't exist. On the other hand, I hope, as I also conclude from the words of Mr Dobryka of the PiS, that, in fact, at the committee meeting, the position of the Ministry will be ready and then we will know where the Ministry wants to go. Although, from what the Minister has said, I conclude that he has admitted that we are dealing with a complex system in Poland, with the overregulation mentioned, and that it is worth considering what kind of... I mean, the direction has already been given. The direction is to simplify or unify or merge, that is to say, to unify or merge. I think these are two options worth discussing here. We propose, propose and propose harmonisation so that this system is as clear and clear as possible. And I think that's the best conclusion. Once again, thank you all very much for supporting this project, for referring it to the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law amending the Tax Order and amending certain other laws contained in print No. 1295, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order (Print No.1247). I ask Mr Paweł Kobyliński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u203	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the draft amendments to the Tax Order Act. Many years of control this is a nightmare of companies, Polish companies. This does not only apply to liabilities to the Social Insurance Institution, but also to tax offices. Recently, a national tax administration has been established - a structure that has absolutely powerful tools to fight dishonest entrepreneurs, dishonest people. We also tried to tighten the penalties for people who participate in VAT carousels. These sanctions will also apply to those who do so unconsciously. We've got a 25-year prison sentence here. It's like a homicide. We also have a tax avoidance clause - a tool that can bring the State's budget due to it in reasonable hands, while in the hands of inexperienced officials or persons acting on someone's order it can pose an absolutely enormous threat to reliable companies that have to deal with unclear, often conflicting rules a day. As if this were not enough, the Polish Sejm is probably one of the most productive sejms in the world. It is a pity - unfortunately - that the number of acts does not go hand in hand with their quality. We've got 31 900 s. of the typewriter for last year. And in this hostile environment, we have a tax limitation institution. The termination of public-law obligations as a result of the expiry of the limitation period means that, despite the failure to meet the needs of the creditor, such as the tax authority, the liability relationship ceases to exist by law. The expiry of the limitation period should take into account ex officio. The purpose of the institutions' limitation to public obligations is to ensure that, after the expiry of the time-limit laid down in the Act, both taxpayers will not be exposed to any action by the authorities aiming at determining and enforcing their tax duties. That's a statement from the justification of this project. The tax limitation institution, on the one hand, disciplines the tax authority for control and, on the other hand, provides a fuse for the taxpayer that it will not endlessly be drawn for the error committed. On the other hand, the current model of tax limitation suspension was challenged by the Constitutional Court in 2015. And this law sort of does the will of the tribunal. The essence of the project is to abolish the possibilities of infinite control, which unfortunately happen. The amendment to this project is intended to increase the motivation of officials to act effectively. For they cannot infinitely lead to an unlimited period of time, if... There's a framework for that. The difference between the project and the current legal situation is the change in the limitation period of tax obligations. Currently we have a 5-year limitation period, without indicating at the same time the time frame within which this time limit should be closed. Proposed amendment, i.e. repeal of § 4, it's like its essence. The current regulation allows the limitation to be interrupted by a preventive enforcement measure. Unfortunately, it happens that procedures are actually initiated just in case. In § 6 In accordance with the proposed amendment, a refund shall be added for a period of not more than 3 years. The revision of this provision will allow for the abolition of unlimited controls which result in increasing tax obligations. In § 7 in point 1 in accordance with the proposed amendment, the applicant shall add a refund no later than 3 years after the date of its initiation. The amendment of this provision will have similar effects to those of the amendment. Article 6 (6) (a) 1. We propose that paragraph 8 be repealed. The repeal of this provision will allow the debtor to dispose freely of the property at the time of the limitation and is in line with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 8 October 2013. In cases where, on the date of entry into force of the amended provisions, the limitation period is suspended, the existing provisions apply because the law does not work backwards - it is always worth stressing here, in this House, from this point of view. The application of the existing provisions is a consequence of the repeal of the Article. 70 § Point 6 (4) and Article 6 (4) thereof. 70 § Paragraph 7 (4) is that where, on the date of entry into force of the amendment, the limitation period for certain tax obligations is suspended, there will be no legal basis for continuing the limitation period after it has been suspended in accordance with the amended provisions. Art. 2 is a transitional provision. Here we believe that all cases initiated before the entry into force of the Act should be dealt with according to previous regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also briefly refer to the opinion of the Public Prosecutor-General for this project. On the other side of that opinion, the prosecutor argues that the repeal of the article. 70 § 4 The tax administration would lead to the preference of debtors with a public arrears vis-à-vis private debtors. It is not entirely acceptable here, because private debtors do not have the ability to eavesdrop, monitor and use operating techniques, it is not the same measure at all. On the same page, the D.A.'s representative claims that it's art. 70 § 4 is in accordance with the Constitution. Yeah, it's consistent, but that doesn't mean you need it. That's the truth, doesn't mean you need it. The General Prosecutor's Office also refers to the Court's claim that the 5-year limitation period seems to be too short. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't punish Poles for a disabled country, which is why there are these changes. On the next side, the prosecutor refers to the term "preemptive enforcement measure" and claims that such checks do not happen. How come they don't happen? They happen, that's what's going on, just in case. I will give such a loud example of a chain of shops, a Polish chain of shops. In the retail industry, it was a very loud transaction. Around 2010 one group bought a chain of stores from the other group. There was a vehicle used to settle this transaction. Everyone knew about it, and at the end of the limitation period, the tax office came in, knowing what it was looking for, and counted back interest. If this recipe had worked, he certainly wouldn't have done so, knowing that this statute of limitations could have been interrupted more quickly. Hence this amendment. On page four of the Attorney General's Office raises charges of frequent complex proceedings, three years isn't enough according to the D.A. to be able to conduct proceedings honestly. If we had clear and clear tax rules, clear and clear above all for entrepreneurs, and not complicated, like cloudy water, then really three years would definitely be enough to deal with the most provocative issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we should discuss prolonged controls, they really kill Polish companies. They really kill. It is something that torments entrepreneurs, which prevents them from developing, which creates a sense of danger. At present, the tax administration seems to have all the tools to catch unfairly earning people, because it is not allowed to call entrepreneurs those who are unfairly engaged in business, it is not allowed to call them that, but it has great opportunities for abuse. By referring to the national tax administration, the projectors did not think of amending the Law on Official Responsibility, and I think this should be the second part of the reform. Therefore, this law actually acts as a buffer, which can in extreme cases protect an honest entrepreneur, so that it will not be dragged for years after the courts, because the charges will be quickly filed and it will be possible to respond quickly to them, also in court. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that we have to discuss how to defend ourselves against Polish regulations at all. They're incredibly complicated. It's something that's been raining here many times in this room. My esteemed man before the applicant, so to speak, also emphasized it. We should give a clear signal through this law that tax authorities really need to be brief, they need to carry out checks quickly, because if they do not have such a wall, the walls of time, they will be able to torment our companies forever. Many cases have been raised that cases from the mid-1990s are still ongoing. It seems that it's... It's a psychic. Something like that shouldn't have happened. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this project. I hope we have a chance to talk about him, modify him on the right committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u204	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Tax Order, print no.1247, requested by Members of the Modern Club. The draft law provides for amendments to the article. 70 Tax Order consisting of the revocation of paragraphs 4 and 8 and amendments to paragraphs 6 and 7. According to the applicants, the aim of this amendment is to introduce economic certainty as regards the limitation of tax obligations. The current rules state that tax obligations are in principle valid after 5 years from the end of the calendar year in which the tax payment is due. However, there are exceptions to this principle, among others. the limitation period shall be interrupted as a result of the enforcement measure notified to the taxable person. The limitation period shall not begin or be suspended if a criminal offence or tax offence is initiated. In a sense, we agree with the applicants that there have been cases where tax authorities abused those rules when they applied them inappropriately to honest entrepreneurs. We are wondering how to amend these laws so that on the one hand they do not harm the honest, but on the other hand they would not give a sense of impunity to tax criminals. Therefore, among others. In the Ministry of Finance, a codification committee is working to develop a new Tax Order which will respond comprehensively to the challenges of modern times. The amendments proposed by the applicants are, in fact, an absolute limitation on the possibility for State authorities to enforce their tax obligations. The state-of-the-art proposal is that even if an appropriate enforcement measure is applied, even in the case of proceedings for a tax offence, the obligation should expire after the deadline laid down in the draft deadline. The solutions proposed, we need to be honest with ourselves, can put an end to the difficulties of detecting and catching tax fraud. We do not want the effort put into sealing the public finance system to be thwarted. Let me remind you that we're really talking about huge amounts. NIK investigated anti-VAT fraud in 2014 and the first half of 2015. The report highlights the inefficiencies of the tax authorities. Although aptly, as NIK emphasizes, criminals were typed, entities were properly typed for control, execution was very often ineffective. Let me remind you that we're talking about really big amounts. For example, VAT is different estimates, but we are talking about tens of billions. VAT gap increased by more than 40 billion between 2007 and 2015. - it's 7 billion in 2015. - as much as 50 billion. If you were to accept the solution you proposed, perhaps this gap would have increased further. We want to fight her because it's really big money, it's all citizens' money. The adoption of the proposed solution would be a transfer to the hands of those who avoid paying taxes, persons who commit tax offences, a tool enabling them, by dragging on various types of proceedings, to actually avoid paying tax obligations by bringing them into limitation. If we pick up the tools for the tax authorities, it means that fraudsters have the green light to break the law. That's not what he's gonna do. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that the bill be rejected in its entirety. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u206	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, Civic Platform. There is no Member. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order Act. I have to say, this morning we were working on a change in the code of administrative procedure. It's a big change of the big, important code. This morning I said that I think I'm still in a dream where the state can be normal and citizen-friendly, in a dream in which I was introduced by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development, which postulate changes in the law of k.p.a., but not about this law I wanted to talk about. I would like to say about the proposal which Mr Uściński has just tabled, which surprises me, to be honest. Well, it's in the K.P.A. Act. This package calls for 100 friendly changes for entrepreneurs to introduce the so-called solution. Silent consent. So if a citizen brings a case, asks for administrative proceedings to be initiated and the decision is not issued within a certain time limit, the administrative authority shall be deemed to give the citizen a right. In this case, however, we are dealing with a situation where an article is trying to change. 70 Tax Order. And what's trying to change about him? Firstly, a reduction in the duration of tax controls is being sought. I understand that tax matters are important. There are two things in life that are certain: death and taxes. But it can't be that tax checks can go on forever. [[Applause]] The term - whether it's a 3-year term or a 5-year term - is already a matter for discussion, but in fact today's legal status is that in the morning, at hours. 10 we are talking about a citizen-friendly country and at 10 o'clock. 17 we are talking about a country that can control this citizen forever. Endlessly, because today, unfortunately, there is a legal state regulated in the Tax Order. What's more, today's Tax Order... What does this project involve? Repeal in Article 70 § 4 and 8, the provisions which in fact make sure that the security and these proceedings can also continue indefinitely, can still be extended, so there are in principle no deadlines. Thus, an example of proceedings, moreover, has been acknowledged that there have been proceedings that have been under way since the 1990s. This is 2017, 20 years of proceedings are being conducted. That's where the question comes in. I understand that those who have made a big racket must be judged and most likely put in prison, but the question is: Why haven't you done it yet? Why don't you do it? You have tools for this. You say three years isn't enough. Make it five years, but limit yourselves to a term. And here it turns out that the proceedings can go on forever. This is one of the worst, most expressive, but worst examples of how oppressive you can be, because these rules also apply to honest entrepreneurs, to whom some doubts have been raised - whether justified or not, we do not know that because these proceedings are ongoing and their duration goes on in years. So, ladies and gentlemen, there's an appeal. If we are to enforce taxes effectively, no longer entering the opinion of the Attorney General, or 3 years, it is enough whether it is not long enough, but if you want to patch or reduce this VAT gap in some way, then effective action is needed. I understand that the state - I say this to the governing party - has taken action to improve, improve the powers of the tax authorities, but it cannot be that you retain a provision that allows you, in principle, to carry out endless checks on businesses or not. If the tax authority or control authority has not been able to prove irregularities for 5, 10, 15, 20 or 25 years, then it may be worth it to conclude that there were no irregularities unless we waited for age and maybe 100 years from now that there was an irregularity. Ladies and gentlemen, legal certainty favours doing business in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To conclude: it is easy to start a business in Poland today, but it is difficult to run it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u208	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law, which we are proposing today, is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal already from 2012. The judgment has not yet been implemented. This shows how inefficient our country is, and the Member declares rejection at first reading of this law, without proposing any implementation of this judgment by the Constitutional Tribunal. Shame and shame. The current model of suspension of the limitation period of the tax obligation has been found by the Constitutional Tribunal to be incompatible with the Constitution, Mr President, because of its condition contrary to the principle of protecting the citizen's confidence in the State and its rights. The state must be effective. The fact that 8 years is not enough for you to enforce taxes on taxpayers means that the state is ineffective and still has a very privileged position towards the citizen. We know of cases where the company's checks have lasted for many years, and yet no allegations have been made to this company. A situation in which the company is controlled for several years prevents its normal functioning. If this situation is the result of legitimate suspicions and ends with a plea and penalties, this can still be understood. If this is a kind of revenge from an official or a statement without any basis, the check should end quickly. The State should therefore be required to comply with certain deadlines. The privileged position of the State also stems from the fact that the trader is responsible for his mistakes and that the State may hold him liable for these errors, unlike an official who is never responsible for his mistakes. The enforcement of tax obligations should be carried out smoothly for one more reason. With regard to taxes not enforced within 5 years of the creation of a tax obligation or obligation, in practice often after 5 years there is no more enforcement. In a situation where the company gets into trouble, after 5 years the assets are usually sold out, and when we are dealing with a tax offence, after 5 years the company is usually no longer in the register, and the people responsible for its operation are not within our state limits. The chronicity of fiscal control is also detrimental to ordinary, honest taxpayers. The victim of tax criminals is not only the Treasury, the honourable Member. An honest taxpayer is also the victim of this badly functioning system, since it often becomes a completely ignorant element of the dirty interests of such criminals. Not chasing criminals in time is detrimental to him, because he can't enforce his claims, he's also the victim of such a system. In view of these entrepreneurs, the State also has its obligations. These commitments include: ensuring the efficiency and efficiency of the state-owned apparatus. As a result of unreliable and chronic proceedings, honest entrepreneurs often lose their lives. We've had a lot of pictures like this on TV, and a lot of pictures like this have been shown in the press. In view of the loss of their livelihoods, ordinary citizens lose their jobs, for which it is often the only source of livelihood. In this way we are acting to the detriment of all these citizens. The State should also comply with these obligations within 8 years. The failure to capture tax offenders at this time does not guarantee any success, so I call on Members of the Law and Justice to think about it. We are dealing with the 2012 TK judgment. If, to this day, after eight years of opposition and one and a half years of sitting on government benches, you are unable to present a reasonable solution to implement this sentence, accept the solution proposed by another party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u210	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order, print no. 1247. The draft law aims to amend the provisions on limitation of tax obligations. Currently, the Tax Order provides for a period of five years of limitation of tax obligations, which may be interrupted whenever enforcement proceedings are taken. The taxable person shall be notified of this proceeding and the tax authority may enforce claims from any new, unknown or previously non-existent assets of the debtor. Enforcement proceedings may therefore be conducted indefinitely and indefinitely. Project applicants propose to extend this 5-year enforcement period for a period of not more than 3 years. As a result of the amendment, a strict period of limitation is laid down and the designers, at the same time repealing § 8 The tax administration makes it possible for the debtor, after that date, to abolish the mortgage collateral and request that the mortgage in question be removed. The projectors, specifying the exact duration of the enforcement procedure, met the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It was the Constitutional Tribunal which stated that the legislator should shape the mechanisms of tax law in such a way that the expiry of the tax obligation would take place within a reasonable period of time and that the enforcement of the tax debt would not last for decades. And it must be said that this initiative by the projectors to try to settle the issue of limitation institutions should be appreciated. On the other hand, taking into account the provisions of the basic law, namely our constitution, it is necessary to approach the issue of limitation of debts much more carefully. They're pointing to it. opinions attached to this project. This is about the opinions of both the Attorney General and the national prosecutor relating to the project solutions. The termination of the tax obligation as a result of the limitation is nevertheless inefficient as it does not satisfy the tax creditor's financial claims. However, with regard to the provisions of the Constitution, it must be pointed out that in Article. 84 of the Constitution is expressed in the principle of tax justice, which consists in the formation of taxes in accordance with the principle of universality and equality. The Constitution obliges everyone to obey and submit to the public burdens imposed on him. The payment of taxes is therefore a constitutional obligation towards the State. Therefore, the introduction of rules promoting taxpayers who fail to comply with tax obligations seems unreasonable, as it leads to a breach of the sense of tax justice from the point of view of the rule of law. The proposal to limit the limitation to 3 years of the limitation period of the tax obligation therefore raises constitutional doubts. The introduction of a pre-defined and automatic limitation period may lead to a weakening of the sense of compliance, even an incentive for unfair debtors to delay and for tax evasion to be calculated. However, while weighing all these arguments, I believe that it is necessary to lean over the institution of limitation, to analyse time, whether the period extended by 3 years is not too short and how to mitigate constitutional rules, and therefore I request on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party [[♪ The bell ♪]] to forward the project to the Committee on Public Finance for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u212	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The limitation period for a tax liability shall be 5 years from the end of the year in which the tax obligation arose. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 70 has so far been very often used by tax authorities in a situation where this 5-year limitation period has been approaching and a dimensional decision has not yet been issued. At that time, there was - and there is - the initiation of criminal proceedings, criminal tax proceedings, which resulted in the interruption of the limitation period. This is a very negative practice of tax authorities. And it is precisely the amendment proposed by the Modern One that prevents abuse of the law and even circumvention of the law applied under the current tax legislation. I would like to ask the applicant whether such facts are true in the practice of tax authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about my speech. I forgot to mention a certain aspect, namely bankruptcy proceedings. In order for the insolvency proceedings to end definitively, all claims must be settled. Thus, where an entrepreneur is engaged in business, he fails, different obligations are charged, without inquiring whether or not he is failing due to the fact that continuous checks do not allow him to function normally. The question is: In the current legal state, is there a situation in which an entrepreneur whose enforcement proceedings cannot be terminated cannot actually fail, in other words, he cannot really start his business life over again and is therefore excluded from legal trading and is included in the grey zone in which he must operate? I'm asking if he functions there as a citizen. Does the Ministry - this is a question, if possible, to the Minister - have any way of resolving this kind of situation so as not to exclude citizens from legal trading? Would it not be worth considering that tax or enforcement proceedings should not continue indefinitely? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe it's a good idea to involve these citizens in a normal legal situation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question arises as to why the existing governments of both the Platform and the PSL and the Law and Justice did not change these provisions when the Constitutional Tribunal made it clear in 2012 that this suspension model is incompatible with the Constitution. Nothing has been done in this regard. I hope that this bill will go smoothly, and indeed citizens will be able to feel that someone has claimed their rights and is doing something in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u218	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Paweł Gruza.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Ministry of Finance on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, the limitation institution is one of the most important institutions in general or procedural tax law. Intervention only in those provisions in such a way as to entitle taxable persons to exercise certain privileges, to extend procedures so as to benefit from the limitation, [[Game in the O.R.]] there is a high risk that the tax system will be broken down at a time when we are currently conducting a number of complex or extensive proceedings concerning significant budgetary losses, for example due to the tax on goods and services. Therefore, we believe that such a synonymous change in the essential element of the Tax Order is harmful at the moment. I would like to remind you, although this has already been emphasized here, that work is underway in the General Tax Law Codification Commission, which is to present a new, modern, 21st century, Tax Order in the second half of this year. Only such a comprehensive and not partial reform of the limitation period will allow us to rationalise this institution safely, but also to build it with procedural fuses that will make the process of rationalising the limitation period safe for both parties, both taxpayers and the budget. If you don't mind, I will also refer to specific provisions. The legislative proposal refers to the repeal of the Article. 70 § 4 Tax Order. This is the elimination from the legal market of a standard where the fulfilment of constitutional standards has been confirmed by the Court, and we therefore believe that there is no pressing need to intervene in this provision in the context of what I am talking about, a comprehensive reform that will be presented in the second half of the year. As regards the amendment of the Article. 70 § Paragraph 6 (1) and (2) Point 7 (1) is the amendment aimed at modifying the maximum period of three years for which the commencement or suspension of the limitation period of the tax obligation may be suspended in the event of the initiation of proceedings for tax offences or tax offences. The adoption of the proposed 3-year time limit would have a negative impact on the ability to investigate tax obligations in particular in cases, as I said, complicated, multi-faceted, cross-border cases where tax authorities depend not only on their own efficiency but also on the collection of evidence from foreign sources. We also believe that here the ruling of the Constitutional Court in the current case K 31/14 will give some direction to legislative changes, which should be adopted by the codification committee and ultimately by the legislator. As regards the repeal of the Article. 70 § In our view, these proposals are not justified, point 6, point 4, paragraph 7, point 4. Leaving the repealed provisions is necessary in order to ensure that the limitation period of the obligation is suspended, which shall be secured in the light of the conditions laid down precisely in the Tax Order and in enforcement proceedings. As regards § Article 8 70 The tax administration, we believe, is not intended to carry out work on the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 8 October 2013 in the face of the failure to complete another proceedings currently pending before the Constitutional Tribunal in the cases of signage. Act K 10/16 and Act P 6/16. In conclusion, we are convinced that such partial proposals are harmful and only a comprehensive reform as a result of codification work will allow for a safe reform, rationalization of all these - as to say - problems raised from this speaker, which of course we also see and are aware of. Only a comprehensive reform will give the possibility of a safe transition to the new legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u220	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Paweł Kobylinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u221	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Dear Minister, I remind you that this bill consumes the judgment of the Constitutional Court, and he is final. Let's get to the questions. The question by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Mr Pampuch - yes, it is true, everything agrees with what Mr Pampuch was polite to say. Unfortunately, these preventive measures are being applied. Grabowski's friend asked for bankruptcy. There's full approval here, too. Unfortunately, the lack of this clear dam makes insolvency proceedings very complicated, it cannot be started again from the very beginning, therefore this law would really give many, many Polish companies and many citizens the opportunity to start over. Dear Minister, you said there were jobs. There are jobs, but in the meantime, taxpayers are suffering. The companies will be harassed by checks and I would like to stress here that we have already moved the Tax Order several times, and it is therefore difficult for me to say that we should not touch this law. Mr President, I hope that you may, however, withdraw your application for rejection at first reading, because I think it is definitely worth leaning over this law. You're talking about a VAT gap. Yes, it is true that it is large, but it is mainly due to the inability of Polish tax systems, because of the complexity of regulations, and here the limitation period does not have much to do with it. Really, three years - if anyone wants to get together, they can do it. You are able to drag one bill within one day. Really, if you want to, you can, so I think even if there's a complicated tax case, a determined tax office would be able to explain it and punish the bad guys. Ladies and gentlemen! We will probably vote on this proposal, I think, at this session of the Sejm. Maybe not if you kindly withdraw your application for rejection at first reading - maybe not. On the other hand, I would ask you to reflect on this project. However, it seems that we need to give a clear signal to entrepreneurs that we are in their favor, that we are creating a stable law, a stable state. At the same time, I would like to say that the proposed date of entry into force of this law is 1 January 2018. Therefore, the national tax administration, with the amazing tools that you have armed these officials with, will certainly be able to catch a lot more people who have committed illegal acts, and in these cases will proceed according to the old rules. I therefore call once again, Mr President, for this proposal to be withdrawn. Thank you for your questions and your comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u222	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u223	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, it is my honor to present to you the position of my club in relation to the bill presented today amending the Tax Order, print No 1247. The bill presented today concerns the amendment of the very important matter of the Tax Order, which is the limitation. As is well known, the statute of limitations is one of many forms of expiry of civil law obligations. It therefore constitutes an important guarantee to the taxpayer without putting him at risk of making a claim by the tax administration, which, as you know, is a creditor of tax obligations after the expiry of the statutory period. The amendments contained in the draft amendment to the Act are intended to cover the period after which the statute of limitations is to take effect. The proposed changes are intended to reduce the time taken by the tax administration from the current 5 to 3 years, while indicating the scope of the closure of the time frame of proceedings also up to 3 years. This will result in the abolition of unlimited controls currently carried out by tax administrations. In addition, the changes will concern, among others. the possibility of removing a mortgage that protects an old-fashioned claim and the time limits for the statute of limitations. The proposed amendment is intended to have tangible positive socio-economic, financial and legal effects, including: is intended to contribute to the stabilisation of the social situation, as well as to preserve the certainty of the legal system in Poland. During future work in the Sejm committee, it is worth to lean on what she proposed in her previous changes in the Tax Order of the Civic Platform, which, in view of the well-being of Polish taxpayers and entrepreneurs, wanted to contribute to improving and facilitating business activity. In view of the above, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of passing the bill amending the Tax Order for further parliamentary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u224	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 09 h 17 min 17]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services (Print No 1280). I would like to ask Mr Jakub Kulesza to state the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present a draft law which aims to simplify the rules on VAT settlement by Polish companies. First of all, I would like to say that this project, after being notified by the Poselski Kukiz Club15, received huge support from Polish entrepreneurs - VAT taxpayers, but not only - also huge support from ordinary citizens, who may not yet be doing business, but would like to run it, and in a very complicated tax system, very complicated VAT declarations, a highly regulated economy see a huge barrier to entry. They believe that if such projects are adopted in this House, it will be easier for them to start doing business because in order to do business, you don't need to be a master of law, you don't need to be a master of finance - you can be an ordinary man who wants to help others by providing the services and products that people want. I would like to present some data to the honourable House as a starting point for our proposed solutions. According to the World Bank's calculations, the settlement of Polish VAT takes on average 98 hours a year, i.e. on a staff basis and one employee approx. 5 weeks. For some it's not much, for others it's very much. Meanwhile, in Ireland or the UK, which we want to model, whose VAT systems are subject to the same EU directive, VAT settlement takes about 30 or 25 hours. This shows that it is possible - even being a member of the European Union. The VAT return form currently in force in Poland has two pages and contains 60 boxes to fill in. We propose replacing this declaration with a one-page declaration containing only six fields, which is exactly what EU law requires of us. The proposed amendment is modelled on the solutions adopted in those Member States of the European Union, which have the simplest and most transparent declarations, namely Ireland, where the declaration has only eight fields, and the UK, where the declaration has only nine fields. Where do these problems arise from? A taxable person, especially a VAT taxable person, is required to provide a number of information in the form of reports to the tax authorities. This creates a burden on the taxpayer with disproportionate reporting obligations, which significantly complicates and complicates the rules on the settlement of tax on goods and services in Poland and generates additional costs on the part of Polish entrepreneurs. The Polish taxpayer must provide the tax office with information which is not relevant for the correctness of VAT settlement, information which the tax office has obtained through other declarations, e.g. VAT 27 declarations, information not required in VAT-EU summary information, information not required under Union law, or information already transmitted by certain traders and transmitted by others from 2018 to a single control file. Another simplification that we are proposing in this project is the consolidation of eight different declarations - now seven, because one already does not apply from 1 January - including three different VAT returns, in a single form. The bill repeals the model declarations applicable to special taxes introduced by the governments of the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice, i.e. the tax on the extraction of certain minerals, retail tax and tax on certain financial institutions. According to this proposal, the amounts of tax for the above-mentioned new danins will be reported by companies in the VAT return. In other words, our bill introduces one uncomplicated form in place of the seven existing VAT return forms: VAT-7, VAT-7K, VAT-7D - withdrawn - VAT-26, P-KOP/MS, P-KOP/RG, FIN-1 and PSD-1. Moreover, this draft amendment to the Act on VAT on goods and services proposes one more simplification of VAT deduction on expenditure relating to cars. Of course, we realize... The draft law does not establish or provide a form for the final VAT return. It shall be included in the section on justification. We know that the preparation of such a new declaration will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, but for our part we declare full cooperation in preparing, refining, consulting the new declaration with the Ministry of Finance so that Poles can live better so that their business is conducted simpler and cheaper. The amendment proposed by us will have a positive social, economic and financial impact, in particular among VAT taxpayers, who will be relieved of their time-consuming and costly obligations regarding the fulfilment of long and complex declarations forms. The time and resources saved in this way will be available to entrepreneurs to develop their business. Who's gonna be helped by this project? Everything. Of course, current entrepreneurs are a little accustomed to these complex regulations, but it will ease them a little bit, maybe they can pay their accountants a little less, they will bear a little less cost. On the other hand, as I said at the outset, this is a huge opportunity for all young people - young and not only - who want to start an economic activity in Poland, but complicated rules represent a huge barrier to entry. We want to eliminate this barrier. I would like to conclude by referring to some of the arguments against which may fall in this Chamber. I think that if I refer to them now, I will make it a little easier for you: there will be less entry, descent and perhaps some arguments, things that you can raise, I will explain at the outset. One such argument is that the project could jeopardise the sealing of the VAT system. I disagree with that argument. The more simplified the declaration procedure is, the easier it is to find a mistake or a case of deliberate misrepresentation of officials. Moreover, the Ministry of Finance is carrying out activities aimed at sealing the VAT system much more advanced than the issue of the VAT return. We have, as I said before, a uniform control file through which all information can be transmitted to the tax office. There's a lot of talk about different methods of fighting VAT carousels, split payment. The simplification of the VAT return certainly does not affect VAT carousels, it will not make it difficult for the Ministry of Labour to fight frauds, but will make life easier for Polish entrepreneurs. Another argument is that the project does not provide effective control. Well, the simpler the declaration, the more effective the control. Officials who have any doubts will always be able to call on the taxpayer to provide explanations to the tax authority. Another argument is that the Ministry of Finance plans to review the declaration in the future. That's why we're coming up with this proposal. Why wait? I propose that on the basis of our project, the Kukiz15 project, we begin this extensive work to simplify the other declarations as well. I propose not to reject the project at first reading, to refer it to the committee, to work with the Ministry on it and that it be such a first step in simplifying the tax system in Poland. One, a little absurd, argument that appears is that other countries have even more fields to fill, e.g. Italy has 586 fields and Hungary has 99 fields. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go after the best, not the downside with the other weaklings. Ireland also has only 8 fields, and the European Union has no doubt about the method of accounting for this country. Let us strive for the best solutions. Moreover, I would like Poland to be a pioneer in terms of simple law, even ahead of such countries as Ireland and the United Kingdom. There was also doubt about adding other taxes to the VAT return. In our view, this is easier: fewer papers, fewer trees, the settlement of several taxes on a single declaration is simpler. But of course, if, as part of the consultation with companies, the aim is to separate it, then okay - the most important thing is to simplify the VAT declaration. Last argument: costs of changes in information systems. These costs will still occur if these announcements of the review of the declaration are fulfilled. IT costs are always borne anyway, this should never be an argument in the case of changes to the law for the better. I would like to add that this project has also been evaluated by many institutions. Institutions such as the National Bank of Poland and the National Bank of Poland and KRS have not made any comments about this project, and the Business Centre Club has given us a very positive opinion on this project, which we are so pleased about - we are so pleased that we can meet the expectations of the environment associated with Polish entrepreneurs. So, High Izbo, Minister, we are here declaring cooperation with the Ministry of Finance to simplify taxes, and I call on the High House to support this project to give it some oxygen and enable it to work in the finance committee. Let's make life easier for entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u226	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, you have the floor of Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u227	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present to the High House our position on the draft parliamentary law amending the law on taxation on goods and services contained in print 1280. Ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the proposed project is to simplify the VAT return currently in force, as according to the applicants, the current formula requires traders to provide non-essential data from the perspective of the Ministry of Finance. Applicants propose replacing the current two-page VAT return requiring 60 boxes with a new model limited to only six, i.e. the minimum quantity to which Union law applies. In addition, the project aims to consolidate seven different declarations, including four VAT returns, into a single form for all taxpayers, whether they account for VAT on a monthly or quarterly basis. One universal and non-complicated VAT return model is intended to replace seven currently in force, including models for special taxable persons' amounts, such as: tax on certain financial institutions, retail sales or the extraction of certain minerals. Proposals also propose simplifying the rules for taxpayers who want to deduct 100% VAT on cars used exclusively for business purposes, eliminating the current obligation to notify this fact within 7 days of the first expenditure related to the vehicle and introducing only an obligation to inform the use of a 100% deduction of VAT in a monthly or quarterly declaration. The solution proposed in the project also eliminates the need to update information on the change in the way the taxable person uses the vehicle originally declared as serving only economic activities. And here we have some doubts about that. In addition, with a certain reserve, we approach the proposal to exempt the taxpayer from the obligation to submit information so as to identify the vehicle concerned, such as the brand, model and even the registration number. In conclusion, as I said at the outset, the proposed amendments aim to submit only one VAT return containing the minimum number of six boxes required by Union law, which, as is justified, does not exist in any of the Member States of the Union, because at least the fields need to be completed in Ireland, where there are eight, and in the United Kingdom, where at least nine boxes have to be completed. In view of the above, our club, after careful analysis of the project submitted, recognises the need for a number of simplifications in this area. However, we have some concerns about the effect and the risk of such far-reaching changes, and therefore the support given to the project depends on the results of further work in the committee on the project, while asking for it to be assigned to work in the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u229	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position on the Parliamentary draft law amending the law on taxation on goods and services, print No 1280. The intention and direction of action must be assessed positively, as it must certainly be sought to make tax law simpler than it is so far. [[Applause]] And now, as we judge the project. This project deserves a positive assessment in so far as it eliminates the obligation to submit VAT-26 information, replacing it with a simplified information obligation in the interim VAT return, while to the rest it is burdened with very many disadvantages, it deserves a negative assessment. Reducing and simplifying information obligations on taxpayers are both legitimate and possible. However, this cannot take the shape of the project. In order for the VAT declaration to properly fulfil its tasks and comply with EU rules, it must contain more data than the designers want, and must be based on the terminology known from the Polish VAT Act and the VAT Directive. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there must be more items. Why? Because the tax due is not only the tax due on sales, it is the export of goods, but also the tax due on the acquisition of goods and services subject to the reverse charge on intra-Community acquisitions of goods and even imports of goods. That's not here at all. The indication in the declaration of import of services purchased from service providers from other Member States is necessary in order to compare the data declared by service providers in the summary information they submit with the data from the purchaser of those services. The tax bases and individual rates are also important. Why doesn't the declaration say, for example? the fields to be filled in which it would be noted that the annex on speeding up the tax refund date is intended to be used? Why isn't it here? The concept of combining declarations for different taxes also deserves a negative assessment. Why? A number of reasons. These taxes remain within the competence of different authorities and are settled for different periods, for example. an adjustment for one of the taxes will affect the taxpayer's powers in respect of other taxes, for example by extending the waiting time for an overpayment. I draw attention to the article. 77 Tax Order. The model declaration contains two fields for three taxes. It is also doubtful to call this document a VAT declaration. In addition, there is also doubt as to the compatibility of such a solution with the VAT Directive, where it is referred to as a VAT declaration. There are other... I'm looking at the table, right, and the clock. You can't e.g. use terminology that is not included in the Act. That's the first thing. The value of goods sent to other EU countries instead of the determination of intra-Community values proposed by the projectors will in fact not be known what values should be shown in this field. Is the value of intra-Community delivery or maybe also the value of mail order sales? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I mean, they're completely different sizes. Similar comments can be formulated to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u230	Go ahead and finish it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u231	... the names of the items • the value of goods received from other EU countries. I see I've exceeded my time by 16, 18 seconds, so I assure you that the list of these very specific reservations is short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u232	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u233	We also expect that this can be improved in the course of work. We'd be happy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u234	Thank you, sir. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Nykiel! That's why we're here to change the law, so I hope we can improve what we want. So what, ladies and gentlemen? Let us start again my speech today, basically in the same role as before, i.e. I have come and not so much have the honour of presenting the position of the club as I have the honour of convincing you that the next draft law of Kukiz.15 is very good, you can say, pro-Citizen, in order to make life easier for people. How about a contest for starters? Who knows how many Kukizs have already submitted draft laws? Over 50, but you probably didn't all read. Who knows what a Monday of freedom is? Monday of freedom, ladies and gentlemen, as I said 1.5 hours ago - the persistent in this Chamber already know - this is an initiative in which every Monday we submit projects to facilitate life, simplify the law, actually save money. Because if we simplify the law, we simplify accounting rules, we save on legal services, on accounting services. So that's why it's Monday's freedom to submit such projects. I would like to remind you that this Monday we submitted another such project, in principle a query to the European Commission, concerning the reduction of the tax on clothing and children's shoes, because as I said earlier, PO-PSL picked it up in 2012, because it was imposed by the European Union, Law and Justice in the election campaign that said: we will lower, but nothing happened for a year and a half, so we helped, that's what we're here for. We asked, maybe it'll work. So, ladies and gentlemen, going back to Monday of freedom, fantastic bill proposals, we have a simplification of the VAT return. Probably all of you and the people who are watching this session of the Sejm know that our VAT declaration has 60 fields, 60 items. As the applicant, Mr Kulesza, has already said, it takes us 98 hours to complete this declaration according to the World Bank in the course of the year. In Ireland, Great Britain, where these fields There's a lot less, which I'm about to mention, it takes 30 hours. So if we had one employee to sacrifice, he would have spent almost five weeks filling in the VAT return, there - much less. Why can't it be like this with us? If we introduced this law, it would be the simplest declaration in the European Union, it would have six positions. And that would be something to be proud of. Interestingly, it is worth mentioning that the fulfilment of 60 items and the waste of 98 hours for this declaration both in us and in Ireland or in the UK, where it takes 30 hours, sometimes even 25, is carried out according to the same EU directives, and this is very surprising. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem with this declaration is that it has 2 pages, 60 positions, but if we adopt this bill, of course after a discussion - I hope that we will discuss this at the committee meeting - it will have 1 page and 6 fields. By comparison, in Ireland it's eight fields and in the UK it's nine fields, so we're gonna be the best. But, ladies and gentlemen, why can we make these six fields? Because we provide too much data that are irrelevant from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance. Six fields are required from us under the EU directive, so why complicate the law unnecessarily and make it more complex? Here I will refer again to this Monday of freedom, because one of the unkind ones could accuse: oh, Kukiz has come to the Sejm and makes further and more draft laws, and so we will reject them all or not. That's not the point. We submit deregulation projects, and among others. This is the project that simplifies the law. Ladies and gentlemen, lastly: Who makes what declaration if you are an entrepreneur? I don't know, you make VAT-7, VAT-7K, VAT-7D, maybe VAT-26, P-KOP/MS, P-KOP/RG, FIN-1, PSD-1. We want to replace these eight declarations with one, one form, so that all these declarations, these eight declarations, are in one form. This way we save time, nerves, it'll all be easier to process, it'll be easy. I therefore encourage you to support this project, work on it in committee, not reject it after the first work in committee. Really, if you see some shortcomings in this project, let's discuss it. That's what the Sejm is for, and we take a lot of money or diets, paybacks, as anybody would prefer, but the fact is that we make a lot of money. Let's talk about making people's lives easier. And that's the project, that's what this project is for. And I say goodbye, thank you very much and I will see you at the next session of the Sejm, when we will probably be discussing the next project of Kukiz15 as part of our action: Monday of freedom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u236	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on taxation on goods and services. I will share the opinions of my previous speakers that it is particularly worth simplifying tax-material law so that these obligations imposed on taxpayers are more easily exercised by the taxpayer. On the other hand, with regard to the law itself, the submission which was brought here by the Kukiz club15, unfortunately, it is necessary to divide the comments that Prof. Nykiel from this stand reported, however, that any nomenclature which is used in the legal acts should correspond to this nomenclature from the act on value added tax or from the EU directive, because there is no doubt about it. There's one more thing I'd like to draw attention to. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down This provision states that other data should also be provided for the correct preparation of tax returns. Thus, as we proceed with some work related to the implementation of the Act and simplifying the declaration of tax on goods and services, the provision of the article should also be taken into account in this work. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure 3 to make such an amendment comprehensive. So there is a nomenclature, but there are also other provisions, provisions in the Tax Act on goods and services, which refer to individual prints of the tax return. Moreover, I don't think there is a taxable person who would actually submit all the VAT prints that are to be consolidated, because that would be impossible, although some, I don't know, very extended activity of some entity could cause this. But I'm going to split the sentence of Kukiz15 here that we're dealing with a declaration that we can work on to make it much simpler. I have the irrefutable impression that, in the various amendments to the Act on VAT on goods and services and the introduction of certain provisions, further fields to the declaration are added, while no one has so far analysed the individual fields in terms of their usefulness in the settlement of the tax on goods and services. I have this declaration before me, and this, Minister, in fact, to you, please note this: Purchase of goods and services classified as fixed assets by the taxpayer, tax charged on acquisition. What is this column supposed to do? There is no practical reason for this because the measure is lasting up to 3.5 thousand, the correction of the tax due on the fixed asset - 15 thousand, so it does not matter at all. This was, of course, relevant at the time when the accelerated refund of the tax on goods and services for the acquisition of fixed assets could have been used. And that's what's left of the really ancient past. Those rules haven't been in force for a long time. Unfortunately, it's in the declaration. Indeed, a taxable person who starts an economic activity, such items in the goods and services tax return may not be misleading as much as they are misleading. Thus, such a review of the billing declaration for the tax on goods and services should take place. I would like to point out one more thing: the tax on goods and services. Indeed, the obligation on goods and services is created by law, but the fact that this obligation is being specified is by calculation itself in the declaration of duty on goods and services. Therefore, the declaration cannot also take into account the impact of other taxes, because this affects us in the same calculation, and thus the formation of the tax liability, because in the context of its questioning, it will really be very difficult to determine for what purpose the procedure for which the decision is to be made. But given that it is important to work especially on simplifying material law, the Modern Parliamentary Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] requests that the bill be submitted to the committees for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u238	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services, print no. 1280. The main objective of the bill is to simplify VAT accounting rules, VAT by Polish taxpayers. One of the proposals is to change the way the tax authority communicates information about motor vehicles used exclusively for business activities for which taxpayers are required to keep records of the course of the vehicle. At present, taxpayers shall provide information about vehicles within 7 days of the date on which they incurred the first expenditure related to these vehicles. The draft law proposes that this information be provided in the tax return for the period during which taxpayers will bear the first expenditure related to these vehicles. At the same time, the project repeals the obligation to update information on these vehicles in case of changes e.g. the use of the car by the taxpayer. However, the most important change introduced by this proposal is the simplification of the current model VAT return. The current declaration form - this has already been highlighted by the applicants - has two pages and contains 60 boxes. Here it is proposed to replace this declaration with a 1-page declaration containing only six fields. The designers justify that these provisions result from EU VAT Directive 2006/112/EC, which only requires six fields in force in the declaration. Projectors deny a lot of information submitted to the Ministry of Finance, considering it unnecessary and unnecessary. I'm not gonna go into that detail today. However, I believe that there is a need for a clear position of the finance department, which information is needed and necessary for this declaration to be made. The next amendment proposed in this project is the consolidation of eight different declarations, including four different VAT only declarations, in a single form. According to the draft law, all VAT payers will submit information on a single model declaration, which will be introduced by the Finance Minister's regulation and is an integral part of the draft law. The draft law also repeals model tax returns other than VAT, including excavation tax, retail tax or tax on certain financial institutions. Therefore, in summary, it must be said that the proposal in question contains indeed very broad simplifications, which, as part of the reduction of bureaucracy, deserve an in-depth analysis by the High House. I believe that these proposals are convenient and good for entrepreneurs, but I also believe that they must have a positive opinion from the financial administration, from the Minister of Finance. I think we can work hard on this project. Personally, I have doubts whether six fields, positions in the tax return can be sufficient, but these are my doubts. On the other hand, on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to say that we are in favour of transferring the project to the committee for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u240	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The National Movement supports actions aimed at simplifying people's lives, to simplify all those things that are related to tax settlement, which are related to making citizens feel good in the Polish state for them to be friendly to them. Therefore, the direction in which the proposed law is going is right, we support this Kukiz initiative15, because today the VAT declaration-owska is indeed a huge undertaking, you can say every time an entrepreneur has to fulfil it. Of course, there's a lot of stuff in there, lots of details to work out. It also appears that it is not entirely appropriate to add other taxes, such as, for example, in a strict VAT declaration. The fossil tax. However, it seems that the work on this law should aim to exclude such elements from it. Nevertheless, we support this idea and I hope that it will be a reason for real Polish entrepreneurs, Polish citizens to make life easier. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u242	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant's representative and I would ask him to be kind enough to clarify a point. If the taxable person has declared the use of the car only for business purposes for a 100% deduction of VAT, why do we exempt him from the obligation to cancel the declaration in the event of changes in the declared use of the vehicle? I think that this solution will legalize the discrepancy between the declared state and the facts that the taxpayer himself will actually know about, and I wanted to ask what this is supposed to do at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u244	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Oh, excuse me, Mr Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u245	I have a question which concerns work already carried out at European Union level, which concerned a standard VAT return. This work led to the creation of a declaration which was to be mandatory. Unfortunately, the directive has not been adopted in this regard, but the results of this work are, this standard declaration has been drawn up. Don't applicants think you should reach out to this? There is no doubt that the results of this work are in line with EU law and that the aim was also to organise and simplify the declaration. So even though this has not taken the form of EU law, it is material. Don't you think the applicant should reach out to this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u246	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Paweł Gruza.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Ministry of Finance, the bill submitted is accepted in particular with regard to the simplification of the purchase declaration for a car which is used 100% for business activity. Such simplification appears to be acceptable at the level of the law. As regards the amendment of the provision on the basis of the VAT return regulation, the Ministry of Finance understands this proposal as a sensitisation of the issuing authority to the details or scope of this information so that they are also as comfortable as possible for taxpayers, while maintaining the financial security and integrity of the system. Therefore, in the view of the Ministry of Finance, it may be considered whether this general orientation of the issuing authority should be limited only to our VAT return, or whether it should be a more general standard for all tax returns. Therefore, in the statutory layer, the project does not entail any specific risks or potential for the fragmentation of the tax system. On the other hand, with regard to the draft declaration itself, I might not be able to express myself, because we do not fully understand the way in which the Sejm is to define a model declaration, which is itself the prerogative given to the finance minister. We therefore understand this as a more out of parliamentary order. Here, unfortunately, we see similar problems related to the model declaration. We think it's too far-fetched. There are elementary information needs of the Ministry which are not implemented under this declaration. It seems that this would have to be supplemented by a number of positions. However, as I say, the current model of the VAT return is consistent with the system of automatic control of taxpayers, also implemented using a single control file. This means that an important, radical simplification of this document would result in a significant breach throughout the assessment process of the correctness of the taxpayer's tax settlement in conjunction with the JPK system. Therefore, until the scale of the submitted JPK files and the universality of their use, and the quality of the data collected by the KAS from these types of documents, we do not want to significantly interfere with the information contained in the VAT-7 declaration, the leading VAT declaration, as this would undermine the relevance of these other sealing activities. However, I would like to stress very strongly that even in the European Union there are already Member States who declare that VAT returns have been completely renounced in favour of pure electronicisation of the tax settlement process. One of the proposals is already very far gone, the taxpayer would only file electronic uniform control files and authorise the tax office to collect funds from its account, which would mean that the tax administration on the basis of very detailed electronic data, would calculate the taxpayer's tax liability and at the same time download it from the account, which would exclude any declaration and signatures and, so to speak, stamp the taxpayer under such documents. As for the consolidation of the declaration itself, there are also examples known to us from Europe. The most exotic example of the declaration I have seen is a declaration which in one document accounts for VAT and ZUS in the Member State concerned. Of course, we see that there is a number of these VAT returns, but - as was also raised here by Mr Nykiel - there is no overlap of these obligations, i.e. one type of return falls into one category of taxpayers and consolidating them has a somewhat apparent effect per taxpayer. In principle, however, even our leading VAT-Own declaration, VAT-7, seems to have fields that are extracurricular, unnecessary. I think that in the course of the work on the draft amendment of the law, a revision of the scope of the information in the VAT declaration can also be considered. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u248	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Jakub Kulesza.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to refer to some of the arguments put forward here, which I did not refer to at the outset and, above all, to the allegation that we want to apply in the VAT declaration a simple, human-friendly terminology rather than complicated terms used in the laws. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that we have been sitting too long in this Seym, we are getting too used to this complicated legal speech and we should listen to entrepreneurs a little bit. To this end, I would like to read part of the opinion of the Business Centre Club, which refers to this section: This proposal must certainly be assessed positively. The considerable complexity of the VAT return makes it difficult for businesses to correct their tax on goods and services. The flawless addition of a large number of boxes sometimes requires expert knowledge of the provisions of the Goods and Services Tax Act. [[Exactly.]] The complexity of the VAT return is made up, among others. Multiplicity of items in which individual VAT operations are to be shown. It is certainly not easy for entrepreneurs to settle the terminology used in the declaration, taken directly from the Act on VAT on goods and services, because the name can be incomprehensible to a recipient who does not use the legal language. In view of the above, any initiative aimed at simplifying declarations deserves approval in this case. That is why I believe that it is worth following the opinion of entrepreneurs in this regard. Believe me, easier terminology... [[So it's different than the bill.]] This method is used in countries where we want to imitate... [[No.]] ...in the UK - business-friendly terms, understandable to people. As far as the rest of the arguments are concerned, of course, it is possible in the committee's work to consider whether to include other taxes in the declaration or to call it a VAT declaration. As the Minister said, there are cases that he also joins the VAT declaration of the Social Security Office. But all of this, I think, can be the subject of work on the committee. Even if - from what the Minister has said - it is impossible to achieve six fields, you'll have to add a few more, it'll still be better than 60 fields. And the declaration that it would be possible to waive the VAT return at all because of the introduction of mechanisms in a single control file for all entrepreneurs since 2018 is very positive and we declare our willingness to work in this direction and support the ministry, because this is in line with what we propose and even more far-reaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u250	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services, contained in print No.1280, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 09 hrs. 18 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Environmental Law (prints Nos 1127 and 1318). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry at its meeting on 23 February 2017 examined the draft law amending the Environmental Law in print No 1127. The project was submitted to the marshal's staff on December 5th. It was sent to first reading on 12 December. During that first reading, which took place on 26 January, a request was made for rejection at first reading. However, this proposal has not been accepted by the High House, and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry is presenting a report in print No 1318 after the work has been carried out. High Izbo! The proposal under discussion today amends the article. 400d, art. 400f and Article. 400j Act Environmental Law, which governs the establishment of selected bodies of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and of the Regional Environmental Protection and Water Management Funds. The amendment aims to reduce the costs of their operation and to simplify and speed up the procedures for the appointment of their members and thus to improve the work of these bodies. According to the proposed regulations, there will be a reduction in the number: firstly, the supervisory board of the national environmental fund from 12 to 11 members, while the local government side of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Self-Government will have one representative; secondly, the supervisory boards of the regional environmental and water funds from seven to five members; and thirdly, the management board of the regional environmental and water funds - instead of three to five, it is planned to reduce to a maximum of two people. This change leads to the rationalisation of the costs of functioning of voivodship environmental and water funds. I would like to remind you that currently the management board of 16 regional environmental funds consists of 54 members, including 16 presidents and 38 vice presidents. On average, the fund's management consists of three or four persons, with funds, e.g. in Katowice, where the number of board members is up to five. In comparison, the national management of the fund has four members who have many times more money to distribute and re-order. Currently, the President's monthly salary is on average over 20,000. gross zloty. The highest stakes are about 25,000. zł. For this reason, the total cost of the remuneration of the regional management boards of environmental and water funds is about PLN 11 million per year. To this they are mandatory, ladies and gentlemen, annual prizes, which are difficult to estimate, but four times a month's salary, monthly salary is standard. Thus, the planned change in environmental legislation, consisting of a reduction to two management posts, and of course the planned change in remuneration, about 17 000. PLN for the president and less than 13 thousand. for the vice president, it will reduce management costs by about 5700 thousand. PLN per year. In addition, there is a reduction in the number of members of the supervisory boards from seven to five, resulting in additional savings of around 1200 000. PLN per year. Let me remind you that the average salary of a member of the board is about PLN 3100 gross. So together, ladies and gentlemen, savings will amount to about PLN 7 million per year. Ladies and gentlemen, for this amount, one treatment plant, medium size, for about 15,000. People can stand up peacefully, and I think about 1,000. fifth-generation furnaces, those that will improve air protection. I think therefore that the game is really worth taking. High Izbo! The measure of effectiveness of the voivodship funds is, among others. such parameter: the cost of payment of 1 PLN of co-financing. For the national fund, this indicator amounts to 2.5 gr per 1 PLN of co-financing, while the average value of this indicator for voivodship funds reaches 5.5 gr, i.e. more than twice as much. However, there are voivodship funds for record-breakers, e.g. Western Pomerania, for which the cost of payment of 1 PLN of co-financing reaches almost 12 gr, or the Podlaskie Fund, where it exceeds 13 gr. It's time to stop, ladies and gentlemen. Voivodship funds should be used to support measures to improve the environment rather than to maintain the son. High Izbo! Amendments to Article 400f of the Act aims to simplify and speed up procedures for the appointment of members of the supervisory boards of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. Currently, the procedure for their appointment is inconsistent, complex and long-term, and in practice leads to situations which may raise very serious doubts. Act in Art. 400f paragraph. 2 provides that the supervisory boards of the voivodship funds shall consist of persons with specific functions, persons selected by the sejmik from among certain categories of candidates and persons notified or appointed by certain entities. Moreover, the legislator has granted powers to appoint and dismiss members of the supervisory boards of the funds to voivodships and, at the same time, the right to dismiss the minister responsible for environmental matters who dismiss the members of the supervisory boards if they have ceased to fulfil the functions set out in the Act. The process of reporting and appointment of members of supervisory boards is complicated, and since it is complemented by the formation of a voivodship by a seymik, i.e. by a body whose sessions are usually convened once a month, there is a very serious time gap between these activities. The shortcomings of the current rules are particularly evident in the case of withdrawal of the notification and withdrawal of the designation of the person in the composition of the supervisory board and the simultaneous notification and appointment of a new person. In such a situation, the process of changing the composition of the supervisory board may take up to 2 and 3 months, with obvious doubts as to the legitimacy of the supervisory board member's activities, whose notification or appointment has been withdrawn. The solution proposed in this project today, i.e. the granting of the Minister responsible for Human Rights. the environment of competence to appoint and remove the members of the supervisory boards of the Funds, enables a smooth, without delay and doubt, change the composition of the supervisory boards of the funds. The purpose of the solution contained in paragraph 1. Article 8 400f, i.e. to grant the Minister responsible for the environment of competence to appoint its representatives in place of members of councils not designated by the voivode, the national management board of the fund or the sejmik, is the discipline of the said entities to effectively appoint members of the councils and enable the supervisory boards of the funds to operate smoothly. A similar nature with regard to the appointment of the management boards of the Funds shall be the solution contained in Article. 400 lips. 2a, according to which, if the management board of the voivodship does not appoint members of the management board within 7 days in accordance with the proposal of the supervisory board of the fund, the appointment of members of the management board shall be carried out by the supervisory board of the fund. High Izbo! Art. 2 of the project provides that the mandate of the former members of the supervisory boards of the voivodship fund and the national fund shall expire on the date of the entry into force of this law. In turn, the article. 3 requires the appointment of members and vice-chairmen of the regional supervisory boards of the funds by the voivodships, the management board of the national fund and the seymika of voivodships within 30 days of the entry into force of the amendment of the legislation, and after 30 days the minister will appoint members of the supervisory boards of the voivodship environmental funds. Further transitional provisions lay down the deadlines for the request by the Provincial Supervisory Board of Funds to the Management Board of the Voivodship to appoint members of the Management Boards of Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds, the deadline for the Management Boards of the Voivodship to appoint these members of the Boards of Boards of the WFOŚ indicated in the proposal and the deadline for the expiry of the mandates of the existing members of the Boards of the Voivodship Boards of Environmental and Water Management Funds. Art. The 4th project establishes a 14-day vacathio legis. High Izbo! The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry shall also submit, at the request of the applicants, six minority proposals. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I request the adoption of a draft amendment to the Environmental Law in print No 1318. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u252	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, once again, it has been my honour to present to the High House, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, an opinion on the draft amendments to the Environmental Law Act, as recorded in print No 1127, and the report of the committee, in print No 1318, in this part of the Act, which concerns the composition and the procedure for the appointment of members of supervisory boards and the management of environmental and water management funds: national and voivodeship. I will not repeat what is the main objective of the proposed amendments, because there has been a deep and, I hope, a comprehensive discussion on this subject. I would just like to mention that, within the framework of the environmental fund, it is important to bear in mind that only the national environmental fund is a state legal person, while the voivodship environmental funds are local legal persons. A similar distinction exists among environmental authorities, which are alongside the Minister responsible for Environment. The environment is also a mound, mayor or president of the city, starosta, sejmik voivodship, marshal of voivodship or voivodship. However, the fact that voivodship funds are local legal entities does not make them local organisational units. This fact has specific consequences. We still believe that it is wrong to organise the composition of supervisory boards from the same persons who perform environmental functions in different institutions. There is no doubt, of course, that the supervisory boards must be composed of competent persons. However, it should not necessarily be the directors of other environmental institutions or possibly their alternates. The supervisory boards as a fund control body must be extremely transparent, and there must not even be a shadow of suspicion of bias or any, even unpersonal, interest. Now on the issue of changes in the composition of the management of the funds, I will repeat that there are no obstacles for the management of even a large company or a public company to be carried out on a one-man basis, although in practice, for example. in various types of companies is that it is carried out on a double basis. It is from practice that this is an optimal number. It should also be borne in mind that an increase in the number of members of supervisory boards must have a particular reason, e.g. the protection of the rights of minority shareholders. In the case of voivodship environmental funds, it is difficult to see why the composition of supervisory boards would consist of more than five people. It should therefore be believed that the reduction in the number of environmental fund managers and their supervisors is not only intended to save money from unnecessary duplication of positions in these bodies, but that it is primarily about improving their performance. Ladies and gentlemen of the clubs and opposition circles, with a little bit of goodwill, you will understand that the proposed amendment to the Environmental Law Act both simplifies and rationalises the procedures for the appointment of the management board and members of the supervisory boards of the regional environmental funds, as well as aims to improve the functioning of these bodies. This is the thought that accompanies us all the time working on this project, and therefore, noticing a few minor inconsistencies, without changing the main assumptions of the project, I am authorized to make five amendments that clarify the draft law. Once again, I stress that we are certainly not dealing with an attempt on democracy in the exercise of the Law and Justice, but with common sense, and that is why, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask once again, ladies and gentlemen, to accept the solutions recommended to them here, along with the amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of expressing my opinion on the bill on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. The Civic Platform Club is still opposed to this bill for two reasons, for reasons of one category and another, for constitutional reasons. The first is related to the procession of this law, and the second is related to its content. I'd like to submit another motion for rejection to the marshal in full.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u256	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u257	High Izbo! This is another project from the lex Szyszko package, which dismantles the institutional environmental protection system in Poland, perhaps because it is as if environmental protection is eliminated, leaving only the exploitation of the environment. No experience with the previous law, which we have yet - at the moment there are amendments to it and this is reflected in a broad echo - related to the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act have taught nothing. Similarly, by pushing on the knee, the committee's programme was extended forcefully so that the first reading could take place despite the lack of constitutional requirements: to consult the local government, because the local government, its power in this area It concerns. The requests for a public hearing are rejected when they are sent both to the Prime Minister and to the committee of letters on this matter from NGOs, scientific organisations, scientists and local governments, especially the local government. Well, voivodship environmental funds as self-government legal entities served as a financial tool for the implementation of regional environmental policy and for local governments of voivodships were such a tool. These appearances, which we hear about savings, are handled in a completely different way, not by changing the structure of these institutions. As far as constitutionality is concerned, not only the procedure but also the material content of this law, there were numerous sounds in this case, also at the order of the Office of Sejm Analysis. At least three expert reports, which we received for the office, speak of the unconstitutionality of these records. In addition, we also have opinions that were ordered by local governments. According to the Constitutionalists, the draft envisages changes to the fundamental principles of the Constitution, such as the principle of decentralisation of public authority, the principle of participation of local government in the exercise of public authority and the exercise of public tasks on its own behalf, and the principle of the legal personality of local government units. According to this opinion, the projector, proposing changes in the appointment of supervisory boards of voivodship funds, aims to centralise fund structures, interferes in an unacceptable way with the independence and independence of institutional and local legal persons, and the proposed changes will deprive the voivodship of the impact on the spending of funds for environmental protection tasks at regional level. The competences left to the local government due to their only illusory nature will prevent them from solving social environmental problems, as well as interfering with the principle of decentralisation, subsidiarity of power, etc. Nevertheless, giving applicants the chance to bend over the shape of this law again and move towards the objective of supposed savings, I have already proposed at the committee meeting, but it will be voted as minority proposals, amendments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will implement this economy, but in a real and consistent way with the constitutional principle of such a...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u258	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u259	...proceding the bill to comply with the rules...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u260	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u261	...not only constitutionally, but also the principle...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u262	Thank you, Member. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that there are problems with spending money in voivodship centers is clear. The fact that there are high costs of spending it is also clear. However, it is also clear that this bill does not do so at all. This bill is a proposal only for staff. The point is that the Law and Justice will have dozens more posts for their activists, for their people, for the people they trust, believing that these changes they propose are forever, that the Law and Justice will always be in control, that their people will always be in those positions, and they will give a guarantee of good spending. They are to guarantee that there will be order in environmental funds, and that is not so, because without making authentic changes that will make control of these expenditures in a real way, and not just personal, civil control or criminal control, we will do nothing. This is another project of Law and Justice, which serves only to change staff, not to change pathological actions. I can't imagine supporting a project that's only meant to cast its people to give away money, to spend money according to its will. What is the guarantee that this money will be spent better? None. None. Personal changes will not guarantee this until we make actual legal changes, and there are no such entries in this project. This is a fundamental charge against this project. This project is a fiction, like a civil service project, like the one that recently fell out of government work, about diplomatic law, a project that is only meant to guarantee a change in human resources. This change in human resources is supposed to guarantee a qualitative change, i.e. making fiction instead of making a substantive change for the better. Dear Law and Justice, you will rule for another two years, maybe six years, maybe even 20 years, but eventually you will stop and all this will turn around. All the personal changes you're making right now can turn around. So what if you even believe in the fact that these changes will bring about a better quality of management, since this will give you another opportunity to exercise these rights, go a step further, and make even bigger purges? Either you'll come to your senses and start creating a substantive framework that restricts certain unfair actions, or you'll be doing what you're doing right now, or you're just gonna have to do the person posts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u264	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Modern. The consequences of the amendment of the Environmental Law Act, the parliamentary project, the sejm print No. 1127, which concerns the composition and the setting up of supervisory boards and the management boards of voivodship environmental and water funds, are one big unknown. The environmental committee's report will, to some extent, maintain the rationality of the changes made, but in the explanatory memorandum to the draft amendments to the Act we read that the main objective of the amendment of the article. 400d is to reduce the operating costs of selected fund bodies and funds by reducing the number of members of the supervisory boards of funds. Art. 400 lips. 1 - reduction in the number of members of the management board of funds. And here's what I'm going to say: Voivodship funds are self-government legal entities. The environmental funding system is mainly based on the collection of environmental charges in the voivodship and their redistribution at the same level for environmental protection purposes. Such solutions allow for a systematic response to the needs of the various environmental fields at local level. And most importantly, the assessment of the importance and urgency of the tasks to be carried out shall be carried out by representatives of the region from which the funds come for them. Those designated by local structures are the greatest guarantee today that decisions are most important from a local point of view. The transfer of powers to designate members of supervisory boards of funds to government administration creates real risks, maybe even the certainty that the purpose for which the money is to be spent in the municipality, I do not know, Piotrowice, Chełmiec, will be decided by people sent from Warsaw. What's going on here? The supervisory boards of the Funds shall be responsible for establishing the rules for granting the funding. The allocation of funds depends on the knowledge of local environmental, economic and social conditions by the members of the supervisory boards. Members of the Council are presently represented by the economic self-government, environmental organizations, voivodship sejmikas, due to the functions performed, among others. representatives of Marshal's offices, environmental councils, the chairman came from the appointment of the Minister responsible for environmental protection. And this system has been functioning smoothly for decades. What need to be changed - something that would not raise objections? I don't know. I don't know what made you want to change that. The planned changes actually put an end to the idea of voivodship funds as local legal entities and the redistribution of environmental funds at local and local level. The Council will be composed of members appointed by the government administration: entities designated by the voivodships, the national fund and the chairman appointed by the Minister responsible for Affairs. environment. Only the Vice-President will be appointed by the Seymist. This is how the council will elect the president of the fund with the formal participation of the sejm. The impact of local authorities on the composition of supervisory boards will therefore be negligible and practically zero when selecting the management of the environmental and water management fund. The government wants to take control of the funds of the Voivodship Environmental and Water Management Fund, although it already has a powerful national fund. The change in appointment and number - one, two members of the management board of the funds - excludes the collegial nature, full transparency and the current mode of work, which was not affected by disruptions. What does information about the functioning of voivodship environmental and water management funds show? The funds shall be the financial facilities and staff support of the local authorities. Activity in each voivodship ensures effective identification of the needs of the region and coordination of actions in the creation of transnational initiatives, taking into account EU commitments and absorption of EU funds. The funds shall operate in accordance with the objectives, orientations in the strategy papers at regional and national levels. Substantial beneficiaries of the funds are local government units. The draft amendment of the Environmental Law aims to reduce the costs of fund bodies at the expense of savings at the national level, among others. on account of the self-financing of funds which do not derive funds from the State budget or from the resources of the local government. There will be a loss of independence and practically local status of a legal person, although formally it will be like a local legal person, through funds and [[♪ The bell ♪]] the submission of this government institution, which will have a significant adverse impact on the activities of the Funds as environmental funders at local level.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u266	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u267	Could I have a moment, please?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u268	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Last sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u269	Modern will not support this project and is opposed at second reading due to the unconstitutional...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u270	I see. Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u271	...project...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u272	Thank you very much. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u273	If you care about saving money, don't destroy self-government.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u274	Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Environmental Law in print no 1127. The amendments to the Environmental Law proposed by the PiS Group, contrary to the statements of the authors, do not improve the functioning of the environmental finance system in Poland, and we have another example of the Wycinkowa law, in which another element is cut out from the scope of the local government's competences: the Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds. This procedure is carried out on the basis of forcing staff changes in the bodies of the Funds, i.e. Supervisory Boards and Boards. The debate used the entire arsenal of typical anesthetic agents. It points to the wickedness that supposedly occurred in environmental funds, and what savings it will bring for the introduction of its professionals. The Minister, responsible for the funds in the Ministry, was not able to say anything meaningful about the work of the funds, limiting himself to further thanks to the PiS Group for the bill and quoting the amount of salaries and prizes paid in the voivodship funds, apart from discreetly similar salaries paid in the national fund. The most amazing thing about all of this is total deafness and ignoring the voice of local governments. Hundreds of protests of communes, powiats, voivodships, nationwide representation of all categories of local governments end up in a basket and are not able to change the once accepted path of change architects. The basic weakness of the proposed changes should be indicated here. Here in the author's mind we only change people, and the rest will somehow be. The greater the chaos, the better. So we get this legal figure, in which the local legal person is managed by the people appointed by the voivode and the minister. Among them is a representative of non-governmental organisations, but of course the ones liked by the government. In fact, this deprives local authorities of the impact on the work of these funds. This is a mockery of lawmaking and deliberate introduction of a mess into the environmental financing system in Poland. Why doesn't the Minister make changes to the end, i.e. doesn't transform voivodship funds into state special purpose funds, and basically the voivodship branches of the national environmental fund? In fact, the point is that the law is written on the knee, in haste, in the name of the ad hoc interest of a group of influential people. Unfortunately, life shows that MEPs often sign projects that they cannot say much about. I repeat the question: Why do you ignore the voice of local governments and introduce changes to the local government by means of parliamentary projects? We are accusing this law of the deliberate dismantling of the Polish environmental financing system which has been in operation for more than 20 years. You lead this project according to the principle: what we promised to take, we will take, and what we promised to give, we promise again. However, experts, constitutionalists, who have prepared an opinion on the constitutional compatibility of this project on behalf of the Sejm Analysis Office, agree that the proposed changes conflict with the idea of decentralisation of the public authority laid down in Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The self-government status of voivodship environmental funds does not allow the authorities of this entity to be completely subordinate to government administrations. Such a deep interference of government authorities in the activity of voivodship funds violates their local status, assumes independence as local legal entities, and also undermines the political independence of the voivodship government from government administration. According to the Constitutionalists, the withdrawal of the local government's influence on the appointment of members of supervisory boards and management boards of funds clearly limits the availability of funds for nature conservation in the voivodship. Once the changes proposed in the project have been implemented, the local government will lose any impact on the spending of these funds. In the assessment of our club, the proposed changes are of the nature of an attempt on the independence of Polish local governments. This is another stage in building a state in which the government wants to concentrate both supervisory and control functions in its hands at the expense of the independence of local governments. It wants to have full control over public spending. For these reasons, The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party makes amendments to improve this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u276	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak again, please, I will close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What will the funding of the organization look like? How will competitions be organised for NGOs for green projects? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u279	I have a question here for the Ministry, because the Ministry will know better. If there were so many irregularities in the regional environmental centres, if there were so many shortcomings, bad spending, what was the Ministry representative doing there? There is a representative of the Ministry in every voivodship centre. Why didn't he call the D.A.? Why didn't he notify the proper services? Why did he not respond in an appropriate way when there are irregularities according to the Law and Justice? If they are, and I believe they can be, we need to consider what is a guarantee of good functioning, whether the representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection at all guarantee that these irregularities will cease to exist. So what if there's not gonna be one more if even one can't see the problem? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law proposed by Members of the Law and Justice is another staff law aimed at ensuring that new Misiewicz posts are filled. This is another attempt on the independence of the local government by Members of the Law and Justice. The opinions commissioned by the Office for Sejm Analysis clearly state that it is incompatible with the Constitution, as art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution provides that the territorial system of the Republic of Poland ensures the decentralisation of public authority. However, this project is grossly incompatible with the assumptions underlying the idea of decentralisation. In fact, the projecters propose changes by entrusting government administration with the power to choose the statutory bodies of voivodship funds, which significantly limit the autonomy of local government units in carrying out environmental tasks and obligations at regional level. This is contrary to the principle of decentralisation, given in particular that existing involvement in the supervisory boards of voivodship funds, both local representatives of nature conservation authorities and representatives of environmental organisations and economic self-governments, has ensured an effective identification of the region's environmental needs. Here's my question. I would like to inform you of the problems involved in the procedure for the appointment of members of the supervisory boards of voivodship funds, as well as the specific data that would illustrate the type and size of the planned savings in connection with the implementation of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u282	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u283	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The changes we propose in the Environmental Law Act are a consistent and consistent solution which, without long-term procedures, will allow for smooth operation of changes in the compositions of supervisory boards of funds, which will also discipline the voivodeship, the sejm of the voivodship and the management of the national fund for smooth operation in this area. The changes proposed by us will speed up the procedures for setting up the bodies of the Funds while reducing the costs of their operation. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what shares of the so-called values have been so far. soft programmes and costs of functioning of voivodship environmental funds in relation to the total value of these funds in 2014, 2015 and 2016 throughout the country and in Warmia-Mazury voivodship. I would ask you to answer me in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u284	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the example of the changes we have presented the priorities of this government: to occupy all possible stools and to introduce centralisation, so as to rule even what should be the responsibility of local governments. The act proposed by the PiS Members has two objectives: it is about personal exchange in positions in supervisory boards and management boards of voivodship funds. The changes aim to take control over the functioning of voivodship funds by the government administration. I just wanted to remind you that centralised administration is present in socialist and totalitarian countries and does not go hand in hand with the idea of democracy. The minority proposals submitted during the committee's work deserve to be taken into account in order to prevent funds from being separated from voivodship authorities. I ask the Members of the applicants whether it is possible, in the context of environmental protection, to finally address the existing problems of pollution and smog, not stools and placing Pisiewicz on them. Citizens are waiting for a good change, not the PiS personnel laws. Thank you very much. Mrs Paluch, don't laugh, because there's nothing to laugh about. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u286	Thank you, ma'am. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u287	It'd be better to cry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Is it true that the practical effect of implementing the bill will, firstly, be to exchange the management board of regional environmental and water management funds for their people, secondly, to fill supervisory boards with their own people, thirdly to deprive regional governments of the right to decide on the use of funds for purposes which are very important and urgent for the region? Why is the voice of local governments ignored, criticizing this project, a project that undermines the independence of local governments? This is a very bad, harmful project which should not be adopted, and preferably if a group of applicants withdraws this project, there is still time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Don't count on it, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u290	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u291	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The proposed changes in voivodship environmental funds are nothing but centralization, because Law and Justice pay particular attention to this issue, because it is practically a jump on the local government, and here you cannot think that it is completely different. I have the impression that the applicants have forgotten about the constitution, which in the article. 15 says that the territorial system of the Republic of Poland ensures this centralization of public authority. You're acting completely differently through centralization. In view of the fact that the proposed changes can have a lot of bad effects, I would like to ask: Is this because of the fact that after the takeover of power by law and justice and after the so-called "righteousness." There has been a good change in the "Kawka" programme, which allowed coal kilns to be removed, and since the voivodship funds continue to run such programmes, will you continue to seek to limit such programs that allow to fight smog and reduce the amount of dust that is bad for human health? In that case, will this money go back to Fr Rydzyk, or will you leave these programs that will be good? Because I'm afraid this change will only lead to [[♪ The bell ♪]] and only to the fact that such programs will be deleted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u292	Thank you very much. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The question to the applicants will be rhetorical: why are you doing this? Why are you building your amendment to the law on a legal lie, a structural legal lie, which in theology is called structural sin? From a self-government-dependent institution you create a bang which formally remains in the hands of the local government, and in fact becomes an instrument of the Minister of Environment and the voivodeship, because they will shape the councils and boards of the voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. After all, it is now the Minister who appoints the chairman of the Council and one of its members. It has not happened that the requests of the Chairman of the Ministerial Council have not been taken into account and subsequently implemented by the Management Boards of the Funds. You can see on your hand that it's just a personnel bill that's supposed to be used by the PiS. You want to create a kind of clientelism that favors hating potentials. Before our eyes, an efficient mechanism for effective environmental protection is being dismantled in accordance with local needs, which has always been part of state policy in this area. Today it is these voivodship environmental funds that implement such necessary air protection programs, supporting local governments. There is a legitimate concern that all this work will go to waste, serving imaginary projects from behind a desk in Warsaw, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which, like the current right to cut into the trunk of trees, will hit like a bullet into the fence. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u294	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I was the Councilman of the Sejm of the Voivodeship In the sixth term I became a Member, so naturally I know very well, from the autopsy, the functioning of the Regional Fund in Wielkopolska. Well, it works very well. The shelves are bent from gadgets, thanking the beneficiaries for their supervision of the money spent. So in my opinion, there is absolutely no need for change, and we are talking about the huge money of this fund, about 200 million. So I ask the question: How is it that the funds remain local legal entities and that the government is supervised? After all, the further supervision is carried out, the worse it is that every Kowalski knows this truth. Please tell me what kind of country you will be applying the criteria of expertise when determining - I think from your sleeve - individual members of the board or supervisory board. I think it's a disease that excavates Law and Justice. I'm not surprised that the state, when you take power, you trade people for your own, but how do you do it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's unacceptable, and no one's gonna accept it. This is not the way to waste the achievements of local governments, restrict their power, or take over it just to rule. How's that? It doesn't matter anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u296	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been said many times here that this is a staff bill, but this is also a robbery bill, because it robs, robs regions from funds that are intended to protect the environment. I do not know what was bothering you with this law in order to deprive the new proposal of economic, non-governmental or scientific influence on its representation in the Supervisory Board. What was bothering you with the transparent process of selecting these representatives? After all, the seymikas of voivodships approved proposals of specific NGOs, economic or scientific environments, did not make their own choice. These organizations themselves decided who would represent them. You're erasing this state, you're gonna take out your own people and you're gonna give them to obey. However, I do not know if you have noticed that under this law there will be no supervisory board for two months. What will happen if there is a need to make changes in this time? I would like to remind you that the Supervisory Board loses its mandates on the date of the entry into force of the Act, while the Minister will only issue his order for the appointment of the new Board within 2 months, because such a time has been specified in this Act. On the other hand, please tell me on what basis, how the Management Board will be elected within 14 days of the appointment of the new Supervisory Board. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How are you gonna point him out? Who will delegate these nominates to the voivodship boards? On what basis will you make a choice? Are you leaving the competition again, or are you just gonna point out to your own people again? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u298	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You might ask how many more laws you're going to bring against the constitution. How many laws will you bring, which are the laws of a group of Members, to avoid all consultations and questions? How many more opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office will be underestimated, which depending on whether the opinion is positive or not, are you using it for your own benefit? How many more staffing bills are there gonna be? You might ask how many other members you have that haven't gotten a job or a profit from you. It would be good to know how many more years we're going to have with you. How many more of these people are there? Maybe to make it easier, I'll offer you a solution so that there's a list attached to any personnel bill you're going to present here. Why bother with the board of directors? Immediately, the list of people you will appoint, because you, Members of the Law and Justice, are already determining who will be on the Supervisory Board, who will be on the Management Board, are already figuring it out in the regions. And do not be ashamed of it, but show that this is your goal: to take over this country with your members of the Law and Justice, your relatives. That's how the whole country is occupied. [[Epidemic, epidemic.]] I hope this is the last 2.5 years of Polish torture [[♪ The bell ♪]] Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[The virus is here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u300	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Piotr Cieślinski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u301	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The justification for the bill is a perfidious, incompetent manipulation and a disgusting lie. The opinions you have joined the project are devastating for you. The real purpose of this horrible idea is to cut out members of the supervisory boards of environmental funds and replace them with their Pisiewicz. [[From the Platform and the PSL, sir. You're in pain here.]] Unfortunately, Mrs Pisiewiczami, Mrs Pisiewicz. Clearly, this dwarf bubble, Madam, is contrary to Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and [[They're all constitutionalists.]] My question is this: Wouldn't it be easier for the PiS in the process of patronising the state and citizens if you changed the electoral order so that the mayors, mayors, marshals would appoint no one else, and the President himself, excuse me, Prime Minister, which in the constitutional sense would be no different from the present situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Constitutional, if any, Mr. President. Please don't serve us russicism here.]] Oh, no, it's constitutional.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u302	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Environmental protection is a very important issue for the whole area of human activity. The funds available to funds and other institutions appointed to work for the environment should be used as efficiently and effectively as possible. I now have a question, more to the Minister, going further, concerning not only voivodship funds: Will action be taken to improve the functioning of institutions such as regional water management boards, regional environmental management departments... [[It's still there...]] ...voivodship environmental inspectors, etc.? It is all such institutions, which have been multiplied over and above, with different subsidiaries, with different, often duplicated tasks. Will such work be carried out to ensure that these institutions operate efficiently, actually for the protection of the environment? Thank you very much. [[You're gonna get fired.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u304	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm wondering how you're gonna explain yourself to the citizens about all this bullshit and lies. You destroy self-government, you break the articles of the Constitution: 15, 16, and we could exchange them one by one. You want to turn this country into just a state of subjugated people, you make this law primarily another law for Misiewicz. [[Madame, don't bother.]] That's all I can say: you can't guarantee that you're doing the right thing. You don't have the personnel to let you do this. [[We're gonna use the modern staff.]] It's sad to see you destroy Polish self-government. What has been worked out over the last decades, you want to cross one... First you said: The platform destroys and leaves Poland in ruins, and I will tell you: you leave Poland in sawdust. [[Applause]] [[Bad griffins, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u306	Thank you very much, Member. And I invite Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to get away from personalities because, contrary to appearances, that's not what this is about. I would like to remind you that the supervisory board of voivodship funds does not act as a supervisory board such as in companies, this is just a convergence of name. This is a body that creates an environmental policy that is compatible with regional objectives and is responsible for what money is spent on and for what priorities are. The legislator has come up with the idea that this important body already consists of representatives of all sectors, including those who pay for environmental protection, i.e. representatives of local governments. They are selected in a transparent way, the seymist only accepted it. What do we have in return? Full freedom. He's only supposed to decide the minister and the voivode, no criteria, nothing. Of course, the pharmacies will power these supervisory boards, their only competence will be that they will be pointed out, that guarantees their loyalty. And they will decide which direction and where the money will go. Is that what savings are? It doesn't matter if it's five or six people. They will appoint the choppers who make their decisions. Is that what this is about? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u308	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Mariusz Gajda, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u309	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to start by trying to address all these questions, how different, some complicated, but first I would like to talk about the charge of non-constitutionality concerning this law, because this is the main charge here, such, you can say, substantive. Most of the other charges are political charges, like somebody doesn't like it. Please, as regards the compatibility of the project with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, i.e. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15, Art. 16 and Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 165 of the According to Art. 400. 2 of the Act of 27 April 2001. Environmental law Voivodship environmental and water protection funds are local legal persons within the meaning of Article. 9 point 14 of the Public Finance Act of 27 August 2009. Reference to the Article. 9 point 14 of the Public Finance Act means that the voivodship funds are local legal entities set up on the basis of a separate law to perform public tasks belonging to the public finance sector. At the same time, Art. 400. 3 Environmental protection laws provide that voivodship environmental funds are not voivodship local organizational units referred to in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act of 5 June 1998 on the local government of the voivodship, i.e. are not voivodship organizational units created by the local government in order to perform the tasks of the voivodship. This is a very, very important thing. Such a solution is appropriate, among others. the position of administrative courts. In its judgment of 13 January 2005, the Court of Justice held that: NSA... I'm not gonna read it here because it's a pretty long sentence, but if I have to, I'll give it to you in writing. It is also important to analyse the catalogue of its tasks to determine the status of the voivodship environmental fund. And so according to the article. 400b. 2 Environmental protection laws The objective of the voivodship environmental fund is to finance environmental protection and water management within the scope set out in Article. 400a paragraph. Paragraph 1 of that Law and paragraphs 1 to 11 to 42 of that Law. For the purpose of the operation of the voivodship fund, it is also necessary to create the conditions for the implementation of environmental financing and water management, in particular by providing support for actions for this implementation and its promotion, as well as through cooperation with other entities, including local government units, entrepreneurs and entities established outside the Republic of Poland. In turn, the analysis of the article. 400. 1 Environmental law leads to the conclusion that projects or tasks in the field of environmental protection and water management, to which funding is called for by voivodship funds, are largely implemented by government administration - e.g. developing water management plans, carrying out research and measurements by the Environmental Protection Inspection or Trade Inspection - support the development of technologies for environmental protection and water management or education or relate to activities of a particular type, e.g. the restoration of protected plant and animal species. It can therefore be concluded that the essence of the activities of the voivodship funds is not to finance the tasks of the local government, but to provide financial support for the implementation of certain categories of projects aimed at protecting the environment and water management... [[Exactly.]] ...executed by different actors. This is justified by the legislator's acceptance in Article. 400. 3 B.C. solution according to which voivodship environmental funds are not voivodship organizational units created by the local government. Nor are they the authorities of the local government. They are created on the basis of only environmental law. Therefore, it follows from the provisions cited above that although the voivodship funds perform public tasks, they are not public authorities - I also wanted to emphasize very strongly. So it's not an attack on the local government. I still wanted to say, because it was a reference to the article. 15 and Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise Referring to the possibility of infringement by the proposed law laid down in Article. 165 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland's principle of legal personality of local government should, in principle, be raised by the same arguments, for example, because this principle is closely linked to the principle of decentralisation of public authority and the principle of autonomy of local self-government. If the legal personality of local government units in the field of public law is related to the public mission of local government to participate in the exercise of public authority, it is difficult to recognise that the proposed act violates this personality, since it does not change the scope of the tasks of the local government in the field of environmental protection and water management. We do not change the tasks of the local government. Nor does any other environmental and water management tasks change at the level of district government or local government. There is no such thing here that it is directly related to the performance of tasks of the local government. So that these allegations of non-constitutionality are unfortunately unfounded. I will, of course, pass this on as a minister of the environment in writing. We have an expert opinion that counts 18 pages. I've quoted the most important elements. I don't want to keep you here for a long, late evening. Now, with regard to the answers to individual questions, I will try to answer them in a specific and briefly manner. Indeed, like Mrs Lenartowicz... It was indeed a constitutional matter. You say you're disassembling the environmental system. This environmental protection system is not disassembled. I wanted to say one more thing: the proceeds to the voivodship funds are not revenue from the Marshal's budget. These are environmental impacts, whether they're from water resources... [[Who's downloading?]] Technically, he's downloading... [[Who's downloading?]] [[Like the Chief.]] Mr President, he takes a marshal and pays 3% or more of the commission for this. There's no problem. There's no problem if it's supposed to be an argument not to get this marshal, and I just wanted to say that he's taking it very inefficiently. This is still a completely separate story: inefficient charging. I do now. Mr Apel asked if a change in staff meant a change in action. This will certainly mean a change of action. I have spoken here before, perhaps Mr Zgorzelski was not satisfied with all my answers, but as usual, time is limited. I wanted to say, on the other hand, that I was three times the chairman of the supervisory board of voivodship funds. I had as much to say as nothing but the voice of opposition as a minister's representative. [[Authority.]] I had as much to say as nothing, as a representative of the Minister of the Environment, because my vote against me didn't give anything with such a composition of the Supervisory Board. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Don't interrupt. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u310	I'm asking you to calm down in the O.R., okay? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: And now these situations... After all, you all know - if you do not know, then I will not say that you are telling the truth - that everything was done according to the law, of course, but according to certain keys. What did it look like? It seemed that a list of priority tasks for individual local governments was being established, it was agreed, then the proposal was passed. I know perfectly well how it worked, I gave examples, among others. President Jacek Karnowski, President of Sopot, asked for an example on the committee of the common government and local government. I gave him an example of the most expensive plumbing on the beach in Sopot. And he got the money for it, and he won't get the money from the poor community for the sewers. [[But that's what PiS did.]] Don't interrupt. Excuse me, sir. President Jacek Karnowski is the president of the Civic Platform and the board was from the Civic Platform. What's the point of this bill here, too? We are talking about better coordination of environmental action. It is not true that voivodship environmental and water management funds have done so much to combat smog. Was this smog really just created, was it just this year? [[A year ago, smog started.]] Perhaps because the PiS government came, the smog appeared, and because he didn't finance, he stopped financing... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I think that's why the smog showed up. After all, elimination of smog is a long-term action. And what have these voivodship funds done for many years over the past eight years? I was talking about examples. It's a beautiful Western Pomeranian project. There you go: elimination of coal power. I'm putting in $50,000. zł and the fund gives me the other 50,000. zł. Who can afford that? [[But it's a national fund program.]] Who can afford that? Can a family with five children afford it? And that was, ladies and gentlemen, the programs in the voivodship funds. [[It is a national fund - Prosumer.]] In the voivodship funds there were of course programmes of this kind supported by the then management of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. We are here to make effective programs, coherent programs, among others. in the fight against smog. Of course, here you are all talking about Mr. Misiewicz, that Misiewicz. I would be there - such my digression - Mr. Misiewicz patented his name and ordered him to pay himself a dollar a day. And then maybe you could use less of that name. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Or the Songs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are really talking about the smooth functioning of these funds. These funds will not change the scope of their actions or their role. They won't. On the other hand, I hope that money will be spent more effectively. It took place, among others. the debate at the joint government and local government committee, I am a member of it, and I noticed one thing: of course, the Marshals of the voivodships are opposed for well-known reasons, and the majority of the presidents of large cities are opposed. On the other hand, representatives of municipalities, representatives of small towns accept this with great joy. Really. Except for some exceptions. Why? [[There's a report.]] Because they say we'll finally have a chance to get grants regardless of the political color of our community. Here one gentleman spoke - perhaps the Member - about the fact that they have such a pile of gadgets in Poznań. Should they have a pile of gadgets? I don't think so. [[Recognize it as a good job.]] Speaking of which, recognition, because the money was granted discretionaryly. If money were given normally, in a normal way, then... Does the Member give the Marshal a token of his gratitude for his payment of any gifts? [[Applause]] [[It's a good job.]] I mean, these are really amazing things. I saw at the fundhouses, where I was, actually queues of wojews who signed up and literally begged on their knees to give them the money. We need to put an end to these pathological behaviors. Of course, we're gonna control these new supervisory boards, we're gonna control the new boards. If there are any irregularities, it will be possible to react immediately. Possibility. Mr Apel also asked why this had not been reported to the prosecutor's office. There are lawyers on every board of directors. Everything's legal. [[Jesus...]] There's no... [[Voice from the room: Not with justice.]] ...of such illegal activities. What's the matter? Appreciation. Recognition is worse than some things, because this discretion cannot be branded in any way. You can go somewhere in the press, you can say something about it, but it's hard to tell if there's been some kind of prosecutorial irregularities here. I don't think I remember them being like that. [[Where aren't they? It'll be for you, too.]] So I don't want to accuse anybody like that here. Everything was legal. [[Voice from the room: Why change?]] Everything was legal, but in a discretionary and inappropriate manner. Of course, here, most of the questions were actually a charge of jumping local governments. Once again, this is not a jump on local governments. Especially since there are not only voivodships, please note, the basis of the system of the Republic is local governments and they should have equal access to all such measures, and unfortunately they did not have equal access. And it is not true that this was clearly chosen, such as representatives of NGOs or employers. And in turn, I don't think employers should be at all... [[There are no employers there, Minister.]] ...was... employers too... [[Representatives of economic organisations.]] Well, that's employers. Because employers obtained information at supervisory board meetings, which they could then use in an inconsistent way... [[Unauthorized.]] [[Minister, you know this was the biggest success of fund management.]] [[But, Marshal, please calm your fellow Members.]] So that I... But let me do the talking, and I'm really asking for less emotion in this courtroom. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: So that, ladies and gentlemen, I think this change will lead us to be able to finance water management, sorry, environmental and water management tasks effectively, in a fair way, mostly in terms of environmental protection. It is this law that will give us transparency at the moment, because there will be no collegial body that has chosen such a representative, not another representative, who knows how. The election will be held by the Minister, the President of the National Fund, the Voivode and the Marshal, and the local government. And there won't be any such action here that suddenly Mr. X or Mrs. Y are in a voivodship fund on the board of supervisors. It's not gonna be the same for overstaffing. There are five people in some voivodship funds, in Katowice, in total... [[But there are three in some, and there are three in Wielkopolska.]] And there are two, and that's a good example, and they work. If the Pomeranian or Świętokrzyski have two people and act quite well, why it cannot be so in other voivodships, I ask. [[But Wielkopolska is five times like Świętokrzyskie.]] Okay, but... [[But of course you can, I'm in.]] Mr... I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: ...I invite you to discuss outside the plenary room... [[I accept, I accept.]] ...because it doesn't belong here. So, in conclusion, I hope that I have answered most of your questions. Of course, I won't answer, because it's hard to answer the question, to the charges of theft, etc., that kind of thing, or a bank robbery, because these aren't substantive allegations, but these are political allegations of a general nature. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The formal proposal was made by Marek Owa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... [[Which paragraph?]] ...I would like to ask for a five-minute break so that the Minister can prepare and present to the High House the confirmation of all the allegations he has spoken of. I am not surprised that the Members opposed and responded on a regular basis, as the Minister answered the questions. It is not true that this project has the support of local governments, because all local government corporations have explicitly spoken out against this project. And the Minister knows that very well. If there are no charges, it's not true that there's pathology. Because if you have evidence of pathology, report it to the D.A.'s office. Where are the specific offences or in breach of the law presented and approved grants for individual entities? You can't speak that language, Minister. You can't. If your project is so acceptable, why aren't you running it as a government project? Why did you release a bunch of MPs? Why didn't you want to go through a joint committee of government and government? Why didn't you want to do this through the full consultation process? You just can't, and you have to protest against it when you say things like that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u312	Thank you very much. I cannot take into account this formal proposal. I'm not gonna announce a break. Mr Skurkiewicz, the applicant's representative, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First, a corrigendum with regard to the words of Mr Owl. Nobody let anyone out. We have signed this project with undiscovered satisfaction and will vote on it tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen! Several issues, perhaps political ones, are worth addressing. But at the very beginning, great thanks to one of the Members present, Mr Sonik. Thank you very much, sir, because no one has so beautifully characterized what is currently happening in the voivodship environmental funds. I'm going to quote your words literally: the clienteleism of captors or customers, that's what you said. That's how it works right now, ladies and gentlemen, the clientelism of the captors. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to end this. We want to put an end to this, so that the grounds for granting grants or loans are substantive, not that there is full discretion. [[A voice from the hall: This is a lie.]] So that there is no such situation as one of the Members recalled, that from the evidence of recognition and gadgets it is in one of the funds that the shelves bend. [[Oh, no, that's turning the cat's tail. A fellow Member turns his tail on the cat.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u314	You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u315	It's time to stop, ladies and gentlemen. Please note one more thing if you will listen. Mr Owl said it was a robbery bill. Mr President, no one gives the opportunity to see the money spent, for example. in the Malopolska Voivodship Environmental Protection Fund, they were transferred e.g. to Świętokrzyskie Voivodship. This money is to be used within your voivodship. They can't be transferred. What kind of robbery? Where can they be moved? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight one more point. This may seem quite trivial and ridiculous to you, but if we are talking about smog, I will repeat once again that the smog problem, the Minister said, did not appear on 25 October 2015, did not appear then. Or did he show up when you were burning documents after eight years of your government, PSL and the Civic Platform? [[Applause]] Maybe that's why he showed up. Ladies and gentlemen, another matter: unconstitutionality. I have spoken about this many times, and I have also spoken about it at the committee meeting. I am absolutely not surprised that these expertises, which have been presented, indicate that this law may have the characteristics of unconstitutionality, especially in a situation where such expertise is prepared by a co-owner of a law firm called KOP PiS. Maybe I can decipher it for you. This firm is located in Łódź, and this lady is a co-owner of this firm. If you part this shortcut, literally, it's on websites, it's the Law and Justice Defense Office. I'm not surprised he has that attitude. Probably spends the money she has received for this expertise. The Law and Justice Defence Office, this is the legal information, as well as the decisions, you are supporting the state. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a long-awaited bill, with all due respect, absolutely. I will highlight what I have said many times here, from this platform, presenting the bill. We want to restore the normality of voivodship environmental funds. We want to stop with discretion, we want to stop with guys, we want all the actors, all the municipalities present in specific projects to have equal opportunities, without gadgeting, Mr, without any evidence of gratitude, only for those who are due, for those who have needs. And one more thing. We also want to change the way this money is spent in voivodship environmental funds. I don't know if you remember the discussion at the environmental committee meeting. Regional environmental funds spend much, most of the funds spent in the form of loans and much less in the form of grants. An example of 2015: in the form of grants, 604 million PLN was transferred to local governments and 2164 million PLN in the form of loans. Why don't we turn it around? Please note that municipalities, especially these small municipalities, face huge financial problems. Why not support these municipalities in order to achieve environmental impact by transferring more money in the form of grants rather than loans? We might be able to do that. And if you and Mr Owl have so well assessed the functioning of voivodship environmental funds, explain to me why you have discredited these institutions in recent years, especially in the last two years. In the previous perspective of the EU voivodship environmental funds had a very important, measurable impact on the implementation of the Operational Programme In this perspective, on which you had a decisive influence, I am talking here about the Polish People's Party and the Civic Platform, you have discredited, marginalized regional environmental funds, those people who are probably very well prepared to carry out these tasks. You didn't give them a job, you didn't give them a chance, you didn't give them a chance to grow. We're gonna change that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Anna Paluch, will speak. [[Your marshal, on a formal matter.]] Formal conclusion. But to make it a formal conclusion. [[But maybe the legal basis, because there will be abuse of formal modes again.]] Member, please. Here's a formal proposal, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur was totally misunderstood by me in his speech on gadgetry, so to speak. It is natural that each individual in cooperation with many entities, whether economic or other... [[This is not a formal conclusion.]] For efficiency, for readability, for efficiency, for proper allocation of resources, the natural gesture of thanks and nothing more. It's normal between actors. Look at the effectiveness of the Regional Fund in Wielkopolska - one of the highest in the country. It's normal, and we don't need any other change. There's no gratitude as negative and misunderstood as you... And that's why I thank you once again from this tribune for the Regional Environmental Fund in Wielkopolska... [[The fund, the fund, Mr. President. Polish language grammar.]] ...for a very good distribution of the resources he had at his disposal, and my internship as a councilman entitles me to say that it was, and I confirm it today. And so please understand the funds spent and understand the thanks for the good efficiency and proper supervision of the implementation of funds and funds in your possession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u318	Thank you very much, sir. But it was a corrigendum, not a formal conclusion. In the future, please report exactly what you would like to say from the stand. Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u319	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to answer at least some of the questions that have been asked. Of course, the Member who asked me about the financial effects of the planned changes has already left, so I recommend that he read my statement from the beginning, because I spoke in detail about the financial effects of the changes. Then I won't say it again. The representative of the Civic Platform was kind to say that this law is used to dismantle the institutional environmental system in Poland. I am therefore in a hurry to reassure you that she is not disassembling the institutional environmental system, she is disassembling Byzantium, she is disassembling the excess of form over the content which, in the performance of the previous coalition, continues in the form of funds in the form of such a festival: Mr Pałys, President Chrzanowski, President Fedak - these are your colleagues - Mr Oświęcimski, who last term sat in this Chamber as a Member of the Western Pomerania and is now the Vice President of the Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the councillors of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party will be finished at the director's posts, and this festival will end with the ownership of all structures. I will say this again: as a result of your decisions, the voivodship funds are simply underburdened by work. I've already talked about these financial parameters of the cost of distributing the gold that are devastating -- that's a multiple of what the national fund spends. Ladies and gentlemen, in the voivodship funds, it is not enough that there is over 1 000 overstaff in terms of presidents and vice presidents. employment. The National Fund has 561 posts, ladies and gentlemen, and the National Fund operates in the amount of PLN 10 300 million. 2 billion less have a total of all voivodship funds, and overstaffing is just appalling. Ladies and gentlemen, at last life must end above the state, renovations of the premises for millions, sponsored from the regional funds of trips to Abu Dhabi for a sightseeing tour, so to speak, environmental protection facilities in this beautiful place. Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time to put it back on its feet and make the money that is in the voivodship environmental funds serve to protect the environment, not the lives of certain elites above the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u320	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... [[In corrigendum mode.]] Please, in the procedure of correcting the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u321	In correction mode, but really in reminder mode. [[Make up your mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u322	Correctively, I would ask you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u323	I'd be very appealing for a scoop of accusations, because they're already criminal. [[Applause]] I understand that the PiS created a political tool from lying, but people must not be insulted and humiliated by such lies. I'm really calling for a scoop, 'cause you don't throw yourself into the world like that, you don't throw yourself. The Member was afraid to mention my name, but she used other people's names here. How can you do that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u324	Thank you very much, Member. Since during the second reading... [[In corrigendum mode, Your Marshal.]] But it wasn't... [[Your party colleagues in off-the-book mode... and you're not giving me the opportunity...]] You are welcome, my fellow Member, but I ask that this be corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u325	Your marshal, I don't have the habit of overusing the mode. Ladies and gentlemen, I have measured myself, what I have said, I have said with full responsibility for the word, I have said what the media described in detail, and I have not really said all the annoying issues that in the media have been raised in connection with this life beyond the state that is going on, your elites, i.e. PO and PSL, in voivodship environmental funds. Member, I have not yet said everything. And maybe I won't. [[Then tell me.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u326	Thank you very much. I just wanted to remind you that you acted as rapporteur for the committee. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliament's Affairs and Immunity on the application of the private prosecutor Robert Kropiwnicki of 7 March 2016 supplemented on 18 April 2016 by the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Patryk Jaki (print No 1309). I would like to ask Edward Siarka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Rules of Procedure Committee, I present a report on the application of the private prosecutor Robert Kropiwnicki of 7 March 2016 supplemented on 18 April 2016 by the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Patryk Jaki. Marshal of the Sejm VIII term of office pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. 1 of the Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator addressed on 9 May 2016 the above request to the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs Committee for its consideration. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee after examining this request at its meeting on 22 February pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. 5 of the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator submitted a proposal to reject the application of the private prosecutor Robert Kropiwnicki of 7 March 2016, then supplemented on 18 April 2016, due to procedural deficiencies, for the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Patryk Jaki. As rapporteur, in the light of the legal opinion that we have received from the Legislative Office, it follows from the statement of the act contained in the proposal that the proposal concerns activities which fall directly within the scope of the mandate of the Member. In this case, a Member may not waive the mandate or immunity of a Member to protect himself from criminal liability. The Sejm must therefore speak on this matter. I would like to remind you that the matter concerns the statements made by Mr Jaki, Minister Which of this Parliamentary Court, and that is why the opinion of the Legislative Office is that the scope of this statement directly concerns the execution of the mandate, the parliamentary immunity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u328	Thank you very much, sir. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. [[Voice from the room: Good for you.]] We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims (prints Nos 1185 and 1339). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims, print No 1185. The joint committees have chosen from their composition Members who have sat in the subcommittee to draw up the project. The subcommittee held its meetings on 9 and 21 and 23 February 2017 and requests its adoption. The joint committees that the subcommittee's report adopted yesterday also request adoption. It is included in print No 1339. The project itself is contained in package plans, a plan for responsible development, 100 changes for companies - a package of facilitations for entrepreneurs and aims to facilitate the recovery of claims. The proposed solutions are intended to: improve the operation of business information offices, create a register of public claims, amend the investor's liability for liabilities to the subcontractor in the construction process by modifying the content of the article. 647 Civil Code, specify the grounds justifying the conclusion of a settlement by the operator of public funds in disputes concerning civil claims, raise the upper limit of the value of the subject-matter of the dispute for matters recognised in simplified proceedings, introduce legislative changes in group proceedings, increase the effectiveness of safeguards and enforcement proceedings. During the work of the committee, the subcommittee decided to adopt part of the editorial and legislative amendments and substantive amendments, such as a change whereby the creditor would not be obliged to send a notification of the risk of disclosure in the register to the obliged party if the amount of the commitment was very low, i.e. less than four times the cost of warning. The current cost of notice is PLN 11.60. This solution prevents irrational expenditure of tax offices and local government units. As regards the amendment to waive the method of making available to the parties the amount of debt in a certain quota range, the quota range provides only an approximate knowledge of the size of public debt. The principle has been introduced that the person concerned is given information on the actual amount of the debt owed at the date of verification in the register. The next amendment refers to the conditions for obtaining consumer liability data from the Register of Public Claims. According to the project, obtaining such a debtor's data from the register requires his written authorisation. However, the draft does not lay down rules for obtaining such data by economic information offices and institutions set up pursuant to Article. 105 Bank law. In view of the fact that these entities act on behalf of and for the benefit of other persons, their clients interested in obtaining debtor data, the requirement to obtain authorisation to check the consumer in the register should therefore apply to the entity at which the abovementioned order was made. offices and institutions will operate. On the other hand, the office itself should be required to take a statement from the payer that it has a valid written authorisation from the consumer. The proposed solution takes into account the aspect of the technical solutions used in the activities of the above mentioned. offices and institutions, i.e. the widespread use of electronic communications. Amendments to Article 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 5a are linked to an amendment to Article. 18o, which concerns the imposition on economic information offices and institutions established pursuant to Article. 105 Bank law requires the customer to receive a statement on the consumer's authorisation to obtain data from the register. The proposal provides for a sanction for requests to make the data available to the obliged consumer without its authorisation. In order to ensure consistency of system liability, an action should also be subject to the obligation to obtain a statement from the entity for which the data are sought in the register of possession of such an authorisation. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees, I request that the bill be adopted together with the amendments proposed and accepted by the committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u330	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Barbara Bubula, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the case submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Committees to print a draft law, in short, on the recovery of claims. This project is, of course, part of a broader government plan to facilitate business activity and may not be as spectacular as the others, which will soon be in the Sejm, but it is a non-controversial law. The regulation of this draft law significantly eliminates the nuisance of the examination of confidence in market participants and the amendments made during the committee's work have further improved the proposed changes to the rules. We have also made the necessary editorial and legislative adjustments. As you know, trust in other economic players is a key factor in the functioning of companies, the level of solvency of the entrepreneur and its liquidity depend on the timely regulation of liabilities by counterparties. An important new element of this law is the creation of a register of public-law commitments, thus enabling the Offices to verify economic information whether the entity concerned, for example. he doesn't owe taxes. This will allow a more thorough examination of the counterparties and thus protect honest entrepreneurs from falling into debt spirals. This problem is particularly burdensome for hundreds of thousands of micro-entrepreneurs who cannot afford to rent expensive law firms and long-term legal proceedings. As a result, the law we adopt will also reduce the need to maintain a high level of reserve in case of emergency, i.e. to improve liquidity and the speed of money circulation in the economy in general. Companies will have more money for development, for investment, for employment of new workers, and finally for innovative activities. The project also aims to improve legal proceedings in economic matters, thus avoiding the long-term recovery situation in the long term. Creditors will be better informed about the solvency of the debtor through this Act. This will in particular improve the activity in sectors particularly affected by the problem of non-regulation of invoices, especially in the construction sector, where the level of debt in listed companies alone exceeds PLN 4 billion. The Act will help to reduce the time taken by courts to deal with economic matters by reducing the need for judicial redress. At present, the data on time limits for court settlement is alarming. In 2015, the average time taken by courts to deal with economic matters was 14 months, in district courts more than 40% of business cases were dealt with for more than one year, in turn more than 25% - for more than 2 years, 10% cases - over 3 years. It doesn't take much imagination to realize what it means not to recover due payment for a sold item or service of considerable value for a small company that doesn't have enough money to survive a difficult time when money is being recovered. I worked for free and I have to go bankrupt - it is a sad reality of many thousands of Polish entrepreneurs. Of course, the bill in question makes sense when it is accompanied by the government or by other solutions announced by Prime Minister Morawiecki: facilitating the reduction of burdens on the Social Security Office for micro-enterprises, exemption from bureaucratic obligations for the smallest companies, tax exemptions for innovation or accelerated depreciation at a higher level than at present. We hope, in fact, that the government bill worked so thoroughly by the Sejm committees will contribute to a significant improvement in economic life in our country. We will, of course, vote in favour of the proposed project as a club of Law and Justice. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u332	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska... There is no Member. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 has tabled amendments to the bill. On behalf of the Poselski Club, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, as it was said here, this government project for a good cause is not particularly controversial. We are aware that economic activity in Poland and, of course, not only in Poland is burdened with a certain risk and it is necessary to lead to a situation where the entrepreneur is surrounded by a certain care to reduce this risk as much as possible. The big problem in Poland is, of course, the congestion of payments, especially the construction industry exposed to these congestions. This is because very often contracts are signed with unreliable subcontractors and it turns out that there are problems with contractors and with the execution of debts. Given that this project assumes wide access to information on the state and financial condition of individual companies, one can make an opinion as to whether the counterparty is genuinely honest or not with large liabilities or not on the list of debtors. This law also sets out quite precisely the collection systems for public debts. This is also important because companies' obligations apply not only to their counterparties but also to tax offices, ZUS, therefore it is decided here, that if the company has the possibility to reach such a list of debtors, which may result in the fact that they do not get the credit, it may be more reliable to carry out their obligations, to pay them on time. In fact, I do not have any more comments on this law, I just hope that if this provision makes it clear that there are rules when a company is included in the list of debtors, but the experience so far shows - because such registers have functioned - that it is very difficult to withdraw, i.e.. to be deleted from such a list, although liabilities were repaid, the deletion process was a long-term process. I hope that these solutions, which have been proposed, will not allow such a situation that the lack of the possibility of rapid deletion after all the debts have been settled will result in the company being still on the list, so it may be difficult both to sign further contracts and to obtain credit in the bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u334	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u335	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour and pleasure to take a position on the government draft law on amendments to facilitate the recovery of claims. The Polish People's Party supports this project as any good solution, a good proposal, because it is a good direction, which is primarily intended to improve financial turnover. These are changes in several laws. I think it's because it's a government project. As I said before, government projects, especially those coming from the hands of Minister Haladyj, are thought out and have their positive cargo compared to parliamentary projects, which are very often corrupting the law, are bad solutions. Any project that meets the expectations of entrepreneurs will in some way facilitate business activity and will be supported by us, so I will no longer go into details, because these are the details that we have already discussed many times, both here and in committees. Such projects will be supported by the Polish People's Party because entrepreneurs expect this, in comparison with the announcements of the great changes that are to come and be a great benefit for entrepreneurs - we do not see this, while these small ones, perhaps not even cosmetic, but small changes that have been proposed for some time will certainly contribute to the better functioning of enterprises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u337	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm so sorry I'm late. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present the position of our club regarding the draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims. During my first reading, I recalled that the project had been prepared in the previous term, and it was good that the work on it had now been completed. In this project we find such provisions that strengthen the rights and guarantees for creditors, there are issues related to the possibility of ending disputes through a settlement, there are provisions about investor protection and subcontractors as participants in the construction process. A large extent of this is the cases identified in group proceedings and the elimination of problems and interpretation doubts that occurred in the practice of pursuing claims in these proceedings. However, I do want and must draw attention to two issues, which are very important and raised in the process of this project. I'll tell you what. These are issues where I ask for particular concern in the verification of those provisions which will enter into force and be in force. It is above all a request to ensure a sufficient level of security guarantees that information in the Register of Public Claims will be protected at least at the same level as we currently have in the case of existing BIGs. Unfortunately, there is a risk with universal access to data that there may be temptations to use them contrary to the purpose for which they should be made available, and we know how easy it is today to violate the dignity or reputation of a person for very different purposes. So that please, let us follow whether the records that this project contains will sufficiently safeguard the data contained in the register already in their daily application when this law enters into force. Doubts have also been raised by private individuals who have not so far been able to effectively block e.g. an entry of a non-existing obligation in the economic information offices. It seemed that the creditor did not refer the claim to the court, but published it in the National Debt Register or within the framework of the so-called. Debt markets. As these cases indicate, some of the claims were, for example, baseless or based on ordinary fraud and could in no way be confirmed in court by an implementing title. That's why they were sent directly to the register. Those affected by such bad practices report that the provisions contained in this project do not sufficiently protect them from the different types of fraudsters who subsequently allow themselves to be persecuted simply in order to extort the recovery of undue amounts. We should protect and eliminate such situations when crooks first enter and then the citizen must seek proof of his innocence. These are the main doubts that have come to us even today and which have been asked to raise them, which is why I am doing so. And that is why I would like to ask the Minister again to answer from this point on whether the issues I have said here - these two points - will be properly secured in this bill. The Civic Platform Club is in favour of this project while ensuring that the existing rules are verified later, that they ensure the security of all parties concerned by the law in an appropriate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u338	Thank you very much, Member. None of your fellow Members have submitted a question. I therefore close the discussion. There are amendments, the Kukiz club 15 has tabled amendments. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 8 March. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Mr Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, will give his first statement. There's no envoy. Mr Jan Warzecha, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Poles are mostly Catholics. The membership of this religion is declared to be close to 93% persons. The President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda, the Prime Minister of the Government of Beata Szydło and the majority of the Members of the current Sejm term together with the Marshal are Catholics. Our homeland had this happiness and privilege that one of its sons became Pope. John Paul II, the first bishop of Rome who was not Italian in 455 years, was soon declared to be the Holy Catholic Church after his death. During the 27 years of the pontificate, our great compatriot visited Poland nine times and during these pilgrimages he gathered millions of people. Often, unbelievers also participated in these pilgrimages, but with great respect. He is considered to be the co-creator of the process of regaining Poland's independence and its subjectivity, the process initiated by the strike in August 1980, which resulted in the emergence of a "Solidarity" - a 10-million-dollar social movement. He repeatedly proved that it was impossible to understand the history of Poland without Christ. In 2016, we had the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. Many compatriots hoped it would be a time of national conversion. As President Andrzej Duda rightly stressed during the anniversary celebrations in Poznań, this Christian heritage continues to shape the fate of Poland and each of the Poles. Meanwhile, in Catholic Poland on Saturday 19 February at the Theatre of Powszechny in Warsaw, financed by the money of Polish taxpayers, there was a premiere of Klątwy, a performance that offends the religious feelings of Poles, instigates murder, in which speech of hatred is used, a performance in which he mocks patriotism and praises abortion on request. Editor Piotr Zaremba, who watched the whole spectacle entitled "The Bible's Word." The Curse at the Powszechny Theatre describes it as follows: In one of the first scenes the actress scratches the cross between her legs, then the sculpture of John Paul II and the actress Julia Wyszyńska makes a disgusting, rude act. I, High Izbo, from here on out of respect for the institution of the Sejm, will not name it. The editor also describes many other obscene acts, such as scenes simulating sex with a priest or wiping the Vatican flag. The show is crowned by the sawing of the great cross. The figure of our pope is put on the neck of the noose, and the actress is considering hiring a killer who would shoot Jarosław Kaczyński. In another scene, the actress makes confessions about her three-month-old fetus, from which she mocked, saying, "You Catholics call him a child." The fetus is to be a girl: she would grow up to be a good Polish and Catholic, but she will not grow, because I will remove it, of course in Holland, because Poland is not allowed. The actress announces that she will do so many more times and that the first fetus will bring and put it on stage. It wouldn't surprise anyone who has dignity and honor if the audience left this show one by one. Unfortunately, it is a provocative, devoid of human feelings, a disgraceful performance of the audience accepted a standing ovation. The editor of Zaremba in the weekbook in the Network aptly summarized the performance: All possible obsessions of the Polish and the world's left - pedophilia of priests, abortion, fear of nationalism, warring feminism - were accumulated and shoved with their knees. And he goes on to say, "This is a provocation thrown in our faces. It's a show where young, not very smart actors hurt people. These people really hate, these are real emotions. I was looking at it through the prism of possession. This is a show of bad people for bad people. This is a manifestation of evil. However, after seeing Zaremba, the editor built the fact that in the hall of the theatre he saw young people recanting the rosary who responded spontaneously. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It should be remembered that the disgraceful performance of the curse, insulting everything to which we Poles have respect, what we love, is played at the Universal Theatre, in an institution supervised by the cultural office of a prominent person: Hannie Gronkiewicz-Waltz. During the celebrations of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism, the Warmiński Bishop Józef Górzyński quoted the words of Ignacy Krasicki: The sweet love of the beloved homeland, only good minds feel you. A good mind, explained the hierarch, is a work that needs to be worked out. A good mind has someone who matures in a world of values undisturbed, properly transmitted, trained, who grew up, respecting what must be respected. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to ask a rhetorical question from the Parliament's stand: Where else will honest Polish citizens have to tolerate disgraceful pranks, [[♪ The bell ♪]] insulting our national dignity and feelings during obscene performances of theatre, film and artistic exhibitions, popularized for the money of Polish taxpayers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u340	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! March 8 is Women's Day, and on this occasion the Seym Day should also come to you, ladies, best wishes, also from the political class. We're getting information from all over the country. That's what I picked up right now, too, from Konin, where there was a very large feminine manifestation. On March 8, the day of solidarity between women - they write. It's not just carnation and coffee, it's equal rights - it's heard in Konin today. And earlier, on Saturday, the first Konin Women's Congress took place. It's five years of continuous activity for local women's communities. The main objective of the founders was to discuss the situation of women in the horse region, to address as difficult topics as job opportunities, social activity and the overall situation of women in the region. Koninian women, founders of Konin Women's Congress, drew their inspiration from the nationwide Women's Congress. The transfer of this social movement to regions and powiats is a great example of the development of civil society and the mobilisation of positive energy in the continents. The debate on contemporary women in the Konin district would not have been possible without the president of the association Ewa Jeżak, her co-workers, as well as support for the Konin self-government, various kinds of institutions and regional entrepreneurs. The five editions of Koninski Women's Congress are a long list of distinguished guests: from Agnieszka Kozłowska-Rajewicz, then plenipotentiary of the government for. Equal treatment, by Anna Komorowska, the first lady of the Republic of Poland, Ludwika Wujec, physicist, politician, opposition activist in the Polish People's Republic, Marta Frej, painter, graphic artist, after Dorota Warakomska this year, president of the Women's Congress, as well as many other famous people from the world of culture, politics, medicine or business. Each edition of Konin Women's Congress was unique in terms of topics of discussion and workshops. During these five editions, discussions were organised, among others. such topics as.Activity. Entrepreneurship. Independence, Stereotypes and their hatcheries: school, mass culture, media, advertising, power, women's solidarity, Feminism, that is, what, cancer, health issues, finally violence against women, the role of contemporary women in society, the constructive resolution of conflict situations. The Konin Women's Congress organizes extremely important health-promoting initiatives. Thanks. horseradish health zones may take part in preventive examinations, e.g. in cytology studies, and workshops aimed at learning breast self-control, enabling early detection of cancer. In the course of discussions at horse congresses, there are various kinds of problems that often require systemic solutions and legal changes. After the last anniversary, the fifth Konin Women's Congress, I committed myself to speaking with interpellations, among others. on the labour market for women, the protection of women's rights in the Polish labour market, pro-family policy, the availability of daycare, kindergartens, as well as the plans of the current government of the Republic of Poland to denounce the Council of Europe Convention - Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, but also the standards of perinatal birth or finally non-vitro programme. Today we get very dramatic signals from different parts of Poland about the fact that women, as they once did, long ago, must organize themselves and organize themselves on 8 March not to experience this day in joy, but increasingly organize themselves in order to present themselves in a public protest - protest against limiting their subjectivity, against not treating them as life partners, against instrumentalization. Those days seemed to be over. Unfortunately today shows that on 8 March 2017 we must fight again for women's rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u342	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, we celebrated the National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed. Today in this Parliament, I would like to pay tribute to one of them. His descendants, grandson and great-grandchildren live in Namysłów on Opole land today. The disgrace of the local authority is that this family is ignored at all kinds of patriotic celebrations, including even on the National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed. All the more so, it is my duty to remind today in the Seym the hero of the anti-communist underground Marian Pilarski's dog. Jar, sentenced to four times the death penalty. 4 March 1952 at 3 p.m. 5.30 prisoners in the service of the Soviet regime executed a death sentence. A few days ago, it was the 65th anniversary of this beastly murder. After years of trial, Marian Pilarski was found to be a communist crime and a criminal justice system. Marian Pilarski, legionary Marshal of Piłsudski, defender of Lviv in the ranks of the VII Siberian Division, battalion of death, wounded and decorated with the honor of Orla Lvive, soldier of war in 1920, wounded, encased with the Bolshevik sword in the Tyszowieckie fields, then soldier of 83rd infantry regiment in Kobrin im. Romualda Traugutta - there he served as Ensign, serving as commander of the platoon and Adjutant commander of the battalion Captain. Scisłowski - member of the so-called "Scisłowski" Two intelligence and military counterintelligence. In the September campaign, he fought as a lieutenant in the army of Polesia under the command of General Francis Kleeberg. He was taken prisoner at the Kock. He escapes to Zamość, where he engages in conspiracy activities in the Service of Poland's Victory, the Union of Armed Struggles and then the Home Army. There he becomes commandant of the AK facility in Tyszowce and then commander of the 21st AK Company in the Zamość inspector. He participates in the action of the storm, he's promoted to captain. After the entry of the Red Army wanted by NKVD and UB remains in conspiracy. Commandant and lecturer of the AK school in the forests of Tomaszów Lubelski, an intelligence officer of the Zamość region, Freedom and Independence, and since 1946 a commandant of the Lublin region, an intelligence officer of the WiN district frees 301 prisoners from Zamość prison, including many soldiers of the National Army. In the autumn of 1946. Marian Pilarski becomes Inspector of the Zamojski WiN. During his duties, he is arrested on 12 April 1950 and imprisoned in Zamość and then transported to the Lublin Castle. He's brutally tortured, among others. His mouth was cut on both sides. From 9 to 13 October 1951, a demonstration process of management of the Zamość AK Provincial was organized in front of the Military District Court in Lublin. There are 11 people on the jury, including priests and nuns. There are severe convictions. High Izbo! Thanks to the tireless efforts of the son and grandson of Marian Pilarski, his temporal remains were recently found. The disgrace of the last decades, when they could not return the depraved bones of martyrs, the heroes of the anti-communist underground to their families. Hello and praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u344	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, we survived again on March 1st. This day, as we know, was the Act of the Polish Sejm of 3 February 2011 established by the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers. In this way, an excellent opportunity was created to restore our memory to those Poles who sacrificed themselves, fighting for a free homeland. After World War II all soldiers of the Conspiracy Polish Army were called bandits by the communist regime. You couldn't talk about them, you should've forgotten them. Today, fortunately, it is thanks to those condemned to forget soldiers that we can, and even we have a duty to speak an open and respectful text about them, because they are not bandits, but heroes. So let us speak loudly and for as long as we have been told to remain silent. One of many figures belonging to the steadfast soldiers, to the Polish heroes, who completely gave their lives to the service of their homeland, was the priest. Wiesław Janusiak pseudod. Ostrich and True. He was born on 24 April 1920 in Chrzanowice, Poland. Radomszczanski. After graduating from high school, he decided to study at the Warsaw University of Technology, which he was not able to finish because at the age of 19 he was deported to Germany for work. On his return, he joined the AK Armed Fighting Union, operating in Kamieńska pow. Radomszczanski and taking on pseudoud. Ostrich. As deputy commander Stanisław Sojczyński, Warsaw took part in many sabotage and dispersal activities. He protected airdrops, among others. in May 1943, he wound up the Gorzkowice police station, in August 1944 carried out an armed operation in Kamiensk, and in October that same year the railway station in Kamiensk, disarming the Germans, taking their weapons and uniforms away from them. The actions of a similar nature were many, until finally came the time when the land of Łódź, Piotrkowska and Częstochowa were liberated from German occupation as a result of the winter offensive of the Red Army. This action, as we know, did not bring the expected freedom, but another slavery - the Soviet slavery. This was a difficult time for Polish soldiers. As a result of the analysis of the situation on 19 January 1945 in Częstochowa, which since October 1944 was the seat of the Home Army, General Leopold Okulicki pseudoud. The bear gave the order to disband the Home Army. This order, with ambiguous content, said, among other things, that Poland is still not free, and the soldiers of the National Army are to guide the nation. Lieutenant Wiesław Janusiak as the commanding officer of Warsaw remembered his credo well: As long as there is even the slightest hope and the ability to demonstrate to Russia that its politics is vile, swine and possessive, and the fight against its imperialism and the taking away of the eastern territories of Poland, it is our duty, even at the cost of great casualties, to continue in this fight. The National Army and its supporters are about 60% of Polish society: who is our enemy - is the enemy of Poland. Lieutenant Wiesław Janusiak's thoughts in the above credo have always accompanied decision making, so despite the propaganda assurances of the Polish security forces about the possibility of returning to normal life he did not even try to come out of hiding because he knew what was waiting for such as him. So he didn't put up a gun in 1945 after the German occupation ended. He stayed hidden. At the turn of May and June 1945, as one of the first field commanders in the presence of Warsaw, he was sworn in by the pseudonym Prawdzic. From now on, when he has been entrusted with the position of commander of the Self-Defense Service and Protection of the Society of the battalion code name of the Reaper, he operates in the district of Piotrków Trybunalski. As of April 1946, he has been appointed commander of the above-mentioned Brony Company battalion and is subsequently entrusted with the post of Deputy Commander of the Lt. Jerzy Jasinski's pseudo. Janusz in the Second Conspiracy Command of the Polish Army and the head of SOS. It is difficult to replace all functions in a short time [[♪ The bell ♪]] he was a member of the CWP. Wiesław Janusiak. In any case, his power to overcome all difficulties was the pursuit of free Poland, but he did not think about himself and his own safety. Therefore, in the second half of 1946 he was the most active commander of the guerrilla Conspiracy Army of Poland. After arresting Warsaw and his closest associates by Agent Henryk Brzózko pseudod. The Żbik was broken and the Second Conspiracy Command of the Polish Army fell. Lieutenant Wiesław Janusiak avoided arrest and during the period adopted by the Sejm on 22 February 1947 so-called. Amnesty and after the declaration of many soldiers to stop fighting in the face of an increasingly difficult situation in the country, bearing in mind the well-being of the soldiers and the lack of any prospects for further struggle, decides to take advantage of the amnesty and reveal itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u346	You are very close to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u347	I'm almost done, Marshal. However, not believing the intentions of communist rule, he soon left for Britain, crossing the green border. That's how he avoided death. He spent the rest of his life on forced emigration in Birmingham, where he lived until 12 May 1982. Thank you for your attention, and I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u348	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, huge amounts of e-mails have been coming into my mail every day, which in their names refer to the protection of Polish trees, the conservation of nature. It happens that within one minute, several messages about the same content come in. Such a huge amount makes normal use of email almost impossible. Among the few thousand messages a day, it is very easy to miss those emails that are directed in specific individual cases, and their senders expect answers or simply address their case. So the question is: What is the purpose of this e-mail action, not the first? Is this about blocking our mail? Because it's certainly not about a better law, it's not about really caring about our nature. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! 1 January this year liberalisation of the law on tree cutting on private property entered into force. The amendment of the Nature Conservation Act, introduced on the basis of the parliamentary draft, gave the owner the opportunity to cut out the private property of shrubs or trees without unnecessary bureaucracy, but only for purposes not related to conducting business activities. Unfortunately, it must be considered that the amended provisions have been abused by some. Therefore, there will be another amendment of the law. We propose to introduce rules, which include: will give the possibility to verify whether the cut-off was actually carried out for purposes not related to economic activity. In addition, it is to be noted that if trees or shrubs are removed from the property, the owner will not be able to dispose of the property for a period of 5 years for the purpose of another entity, e.g. The developer. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the adoption of this desirable amendment in December was met with enormous media manipulation. In recent weeks, the scale of manipulation in this case has reached an unprecedented dimension. Even a photograph of a dead squirrel in the trunk of a supposedly cut tree appeared on the web and Internet portals. This photo was quickly passed by left-wing media. This squirrel was supposed to be a symbol of a brutal law allowing trees to be cut off on private property. However, it turns out that the photo comes from a park in Warsaw, and this one is located under the management of the President, who probably ordered a section for parking for the residents of the apartment building in 2016. In addition, this picture represents a tree from which only a rotten branch was cut off. Ladies and gentlemen! Constitution of the Republic of Poland in art. 64 directly points to property rights as one of the foundations of a free state. Citizens are often afraid to plant new trees on their own property in fear of the difficulties and high penalties they may face when they wish to remove the tree. In recent times I have had many calls from people who regularly plant shrubs and trees in their homes. They simply say that if they planted them on their own and on their own, why couldn't they do so when these trees grow up when they disturb them when they want to remove them? Why are these restrictions? They also ask the question to the pseudo-defenders of nature: How many people have planted trees in their lives? And I would like to ask the organizers of this e-mail heyt if they really planted at least one tree in their lives. Do they talk to those people who plant trees that have trees on their property that care for these trees, and when they need to be removed, do they have some problems? In my parliamentary office alone, I met with a situation when an unconscious person had just removed the tree she herself planted on her own property, and later received a high penalty. Are those people who claim to be nature's defenders, those who defend trees, aware of that? And once again, ending: Why this e-mail hat? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u350	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jack Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Basically, ladies, women! Today for many of us a special day, the International Women's Day - for some because of the sentiments connected with the past time, for others because of the durability of the admiration for the female and the use of all circumstances giving the opportunity to convey their warm attitude towards the ladies. I think that today for many of you, ladies, has begun sympatheticly - a warm, tender gesture and a word from the household: a husband, a son, a father. During the day, I assume, a bunch of wonderful flowers grew, as was the amount of kind smiles, compliments, evidence of sympathy. Special Day - Women's Day. And it's a good thing he is, but he's passing away. I trust that in the wonderful atmosphere the feast is still in your homes, although it is inexorably approaching tomorrow. Morning like today, but a little bit colder, hasty, lousy. We pass quickly in the bathroom door, the kids delay leaving for school and the dog slipped out of the garden fence. There's no spark in yesterday's eye when you were surprisingly handing her flowers, there's no ahead cup of coffee to welcome the day you made for her. And sweet words at work, in the store quietly, the media ecstasy falls, everyday. Again, woman, you enter the rhythm of everyday life in which it is necessary to take care of everything and everyone around you, care and care for children, husband, loved ones. Things and everyday tasks you have so much that sometimes you don't have time for yourself. Therefore, looking at the window of the TV screen, when you see a beautiful actress, model, celebrity, it arouses in you delight and regret. That's what you'd like to do, but everyday life can be overwhelming. Although Women's Day actually passes quickly, there is a universal state that allows it to continue regardless of the nomenclature. This state is love, a word that only becomes meaningful if it is strengthened by acts, gestures, activity. Just declaring: I love you, wife, daughter, mother, is as reliable as it is in the daily evidence. So, while enjoying today, I wish you, ladies, the next days covered with gestures of tenderness, closeness and affection, activities ahead of your needs and such perceptions of your loved ones, that they may see them, finally daily dealing with every new day of your community holiday, whatever it may be, according to the hope of understanding the truth, that words do not make us good, only gestures and deeds. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u352	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u353	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On 23 February 2017, the venerable Fr. The prelate John Delekta, the parish priest of the Rzeszow cathedral, the priest of the vocation, the honest, the devout and the humble. A true follower of Jesus Christ died. Fr. Jan Delekta, born on 5 August 1954, performed many important functions during his pastoral ministry. He was an outstanding character. The Higher Seminary, in which he studied in 1973 and 1980, shaped his priesthood in the spirit of deep devotion to Christ. On June 8, 1980, in the Przemyśl Cathedral, he was ordained priestly. Bishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. He began his ministry as a vicar in the parish in Kosina, where he remained for the first 5 years of the priesthood. Another parish was a challenge. It was the crowd's fara. Here he served God faithfully until 1988. He received his first rehearsal also this year in the parish of Polana. There, among others. engaged in the recovery of the plot from you with the destroyed church in the nearby Polanska Huta, Beskid Niski, and later in the reconstruction of this devastating temple since World War II - as a heritage of Polish culture. Another parish which the bishop of Rzeszów entrusted to him this time, because he became a priest of the diocese of Rzeszow, was in Ropczyce. He served there from 1993 to 2011 in Parish. The transfiguration of the Lord. It was in this parish that he was the initiator and participant of numerous projects contributing to the strengthening of religious life in the parish, as well as material and material activities for the creation and renewal of places of worship in Ropczyce. By obtaining financial support, in particular from the local government and the municipality of Ropczyce, the local government of Podkarpackie Voivodeship, the provincial monument conservator, and from many other people of good will, the parish gathered funds, among others. to renovate the sanctuary of Our Lady of the Queen of Families, i.e. the church and its surroundings, renovation of the outer part and historical elements of the Church of the Transfiguration of the Lord. As a builder and effective organizer of the investment he also signed up in the parish of St. Barbary in Ropczyce, which involved among others. with the construction of the first church, bell towers, as well as the rectory. Special attention was paid to people with disabilities, as well as to their families. At his initiative, with the great participation of local authorities and the parishioners in 1995 the first Caritas care station in the diocese began to operate in Ropczyce, and in 2003 workshops of occupational therapy began to operate. The whole was preceded by hard organizational work, a struggle for money for construction, construction and renovation. He organized the ministry of the sick and the disabled. Prelate Jan Delekta and the vicars and parishioners joined the great Caritasu initiatives providing financial and material assistance to families affected by fate. Before each holiday, those most in need received adequate support, and there were also school trips without emergency assistance. The Prelate helped to organize children's holidays, to collect for operations of the youngest parishioners, to organize help for those affected by the flood. In the flood that took place between 2009 and 2010, he personally participated in rescue operations, including the protection of the parish church and the sanctuary. He also initiated the reconstruction of the brick fence of the church which had been knocked down by water. For the active and creative commitment to the life of the parish in Ropczyce, for the spiritual and material well-being performed, for the actions for the positive image of the city and the municipality of Ropczyce, the Society of Friends of the Land of Ropczyc asked for the title of honorary citizen of the city of Ropczyc to be given to you by the Prelate Jan Delekt. This was the case in 2012. His hard priestly work was appreciated by the Bishop of Rzeszow, who entrusted him with a parish in the Cathedral parish in 2011. During these more than five years, he became famous for his modesty and hard pastoral work. Less than a year after he was entrusted to him, he was entrusted with the function of diocesan minister of local government. He served this function almost until his death. During his 30 years of priestly work, Fr. Jan Delekta was among others. Diocesan priest of blooddressers, diocesan minister of self-government, member of the Economic Council of the Rzeszow Diocese and the Priestly Council of the Rzeszow Diocese. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He died on 23 February 2017 in Rzeszów. He was buried in the Wolfman's cemetery. Prelate John Delekta was 62 years old. Peace of his soul! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u354	Thank you, Madam President. A final statement will be made by Maciej Masławski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for agreeing to speak. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use this time to draw attention to the role of cultural creators in the functioning of modern societies. Unfortunately, culture is treated as a cost all the time, not as an investment, which is in fact. The subject of culture as an element of social life penetrates the media almost exclusively in crisis situations, that is, in connection with some scandal, or in connection with the protests of the creators facing cuts in funds. Culture is a value, a measurable value and a percentage of a particular profit. In the global market, we are distinguished by our unique culture. Either we take care of it, cherish it and profit from it, or lose a valuable competitive advantage. We often talk about the knowledge economy, sustainable development. Without the support and promotion of culture, we can forget about it. If we don't believe in it, we'll never break the glass ceiling. Therefore, I would like to mention the Regional Association of Cultural Developers in my family beautiful Rzeszow. The association, which was founded in 1980 on the wave of solidarity movements, set itself the goal of promoting a higher culture in the working groups. It was found in a new reality, attracting people of culture who wanted to preserve their folk and national traditions. In 2011, the association established cooperation with the City Centre for Culture in Lviv. It operates in almost all cultural institutions: choirs, creative unions, communal cultural centres, clubs, cemeteries, libraries, schools and kindergartens. We have to take care of people like that. We need to make sure that the passionate of history, the amateurs of ethnography, local artists feel that they have the support of us. The work they do is treated as a free mission. If, as a country, we do not remove the barriers facing grassroots movements that promote culture, we will lose a great deal. Culture can be revived by grants and subsidies, but a real living culture requires freedom and independence. This is our treasure. Let's not sell it for nothing. The association was founded in 1980 on a wave of solidarity movements and was called the Workers' Association of Cultural Developers. It had workers in its ranks and set itself the goal of promoting a working culture. Like every organization, it went through its ups and downs. Following the crisis in 2007, the association was reorganized. In 2009, when it turned out that there were no workers in the RSTK ranks, the name was changed to the Regional Association of Cultural Developers, and the aim was not only to promote working culture, but to promote culture in general. The following sections were created: literary, whose director was Jerzy Nawrocki, musical, directed by Zygmunt Kiełbowicz, plastic with Emilia Wołoszyn, pedagogical and teaching with Zofia Krawiec and Katarzyna Błaszczuk, photo and film with Alicja Borowiec, Władysław Wiąck and Józef Homa, live words with Dorota Kwoka and Stachem Ożog and folklore led by Stefania Buda and Kazimierz Wiśniowski. The Association has its Information Flow Centre, headed by Katarzyna Pajdak, and cooperates with the media and abroad through Regina Nachacz. The association's achievements also consist of publishing activities: two editions of the international competition In 2011 it was created by the young RSTKs. The Association publishes a newsletter entitled "Culture and Song," in which the works of members and sympathizers of the RSTK are published. Since the 4th issue of 2011, the newsletters have been extended to include the Young People's Contribution. This contribution is edited by a student at the Jagiellonian University and the State Higher Theatrical School of Benjamin Bukowski, and co-workers are young people from Podkarpacie studying at the universities known in the country: Jagiellonian University, Górniczo-Hutnicza Academy, Wrocław University, Warsaw University and Poznań University. In 2011 cooperation with the urban cultural centre from Lviv was established. The activities of the members of our association are visible in almost all cultural institutions: choirs, creative unions, communal cultural centres, clubs, cemeteries, libraries, schools, kindergartens, etc. In 2013, the association received the award of the Management Board of Podkarpackie Voivodship for its entire activities. From this point of view, I would like to thank you very much for the actions taken by the Regional Association of Cultural Developers from Rzeszów. I wish you more success. See you next time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-08-sejm-37-1.u356	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 9 March 2017, by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 53]]
