ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u1	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On Saturday 4 November 2017 Emil Morgiewicz was buried at the cemetery in Mrągow... [[The Gathered Rise Up]] ...a multi-year political prisoner of the Polish People's Republic - over 4.5 years in prisons. In the 1970s he was a representative of Amnesty International Poland. He prepared a report on the state of Polish prisoners. He was a co-worker of KOR and ROPCiO. He's an intern in martial law. Let's celebrate his memory with a minute of silence. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u2	Thank you. With formal conclusions, I repeat, you have come forward. Mr Marek Owl, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u3	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask your marshal for a break so that we can commemorate together Piotr Szczęsny, who made an act of self-burning at the Palace of Culture and Science in Warsaw. [[That's disgusting.]] [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I realize that we may differ in the assessment of this event, but I firmly believe that this unique act of man's desperation was motivated by love for our homeland and concern for its fate. He left us a manifesto, which should be a reason for reflection and a moment of reflection for each of us. In recent days in many Polish cities people have paid tribute to Piotr Szczęsny. Let this tragedy be a warning to us, and a moment of silence with respect for the man who sacrificed his own life for his love for Poland. Let's celebrate, too, in a moment of silence, the memory of an ordinary gray man. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you. [[Disgraceful.]] [[Voice from the room: So-called Smolensk suicides.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u4	I repeat, with a formal motion... In order to submit a formal application, Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club shall be proposed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request for the adjournment of the Sejm until the draft in print is withdrawn from the agenda in 1919. It's a law that, according to the Minister of Defense, is supposed to carry out the password: Shooting range in every county. During the first reading at the meeting of the Defence Committee and the Local Government Committee several times there was a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The bill went to the Sejm, ladies and gentlemen, October 11th. On 12 October it was already processed - without the opinion of the local government. How do you do it, Marshal, to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which speaks, I quote the article. 36: The examination of laws which may result in changes in the functioning of the local government includes consultation of local authorities? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Quiet!]] Local governments have the right, within 14 days of receipt of the project, to present an opinion. One day is less than 14 days, and even the marshal should know that. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9, Mr. Marshal: Representatives of local governments have the right to present their opinions at the meeting of the Sejm committees. So where were the representatives of the local government? Did they sit behind the pillar? Because the members of the defense committee didn't see them there. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] You do a law on the financing of local governments and you don't ask for the opinion of local governments. Or maybe local governments. Would they prefer road or kindergarten to shooting? That's a question to ask. It is not enough that the chairman of the committee has violated the rules of procedure, including you, Marshal, have violated the rules of procedure. Well, the letter from the head of your firm makes it clear that you're going to ask for consultations, but at second reading, even though the rules say something completely different. So I'm asking, Mr. Marshal, today, how is it that the rules are talking about the beginning of the work, and you chose to consult with the local government before the second reading? Or, at the end of the day, after the votes, maybe we should consult on this? This is fiction. The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are also for you, and I propose that this time the Marshal's financial punishment be imposed on himself, because you've been pretty specialized in this lately. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u6	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me remind you of the basic facts. [[But what? The rules have been violated.]] [[And that was a formal conclusion.]] On 11 October, the draft law was submitted for consultation. In order to obtain the BAS opinion and for consultation, 11 October. [[And October 12th until first reading.]] On the same day, it was sent to the local authorities for an opinion. On 12 October, it was sent to print and to first reading in the Defence Committee. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[That's what I'm talking about!]] [[Voices from the hall: That's it!]] [[You confessed yourself. What kind of punishment?]] Today we have, ladies and gentlemen, November 8th. Today is November 8th, almost a month after the bill was passed... [[Today is the second reading. Two, not the first.]] [[Today is the second reading.]] That is why I directed this draft law to the second reading today at the Sejm meeting. [[Voice from the room: This is pointless.]] [[What kind of punishment?]] I would like to remind you that the Committee on National Defence has actually proposed that this project be considered at the previous session of the Sejm. I thought it was premature because the results of the consultation had not yet been received. [[It's about first reading.]] [[But the first reading has already taken place.]] So I would ask your fellow Members, however, to carefully analyse and read the calendar... [[Rules!]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum. Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] No, there is no correction, because I did not quote Mr... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You misunderstood.]] [[In corrigendum mode, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr President, please leave the speaker... [[But, Marshal, you misunderstood.]] ... Because in correction mode... [[But you didn't explain yourself.]] ...in correction mode... [[You misunderstood what I said.]] You have no right to correct a statement that hasn't fallen. [[Mr. Marshal, the opposite voice.]] [[You misunderstood what I said.]] It's a vote against. [[Yes.]] A vote against, please, I'll allow it. Mr Meysztowicz, vote against.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u7	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The opposite voice, because I see that no one is responding to what you have said at all. Mr. Marshal, this is about first reading. Now we have a second reading, and before the first reading should be the opinion of local governments. [[That's not a vote against. You don't know the basic rules.]] So either we don't understand something or you don't understand something. Mr. Marshal, the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm apply to all Members. You, regardless of being a Marshal of the Sejm, are also an ordinary Member of the Sejm and your Rules of Procedure are in force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Are you against it or against it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u8	So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, the Rules of Procedure say that before referring to the first reading at the meeting of the committee of Marshals the Sejm sends draft laws for consultation. And that's what happened. [[Before the first reading.]] And that's what happened. [[14 days!]] And that's what happened. The fact that the committee has taken up this kind of work, not the others... [[But the opinion wasn't at first reading.]] ...this no longer belongs to the Marshal of the Sejm. Pay attention to that. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] I paid attention at the committee chair meeting, I warned them to respect the legislative process... [[We will ask a question in writing on this matter.]] ...and they acted more in accordance with the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, while in extraordinary situations, those that require quick work, they treated it as some cases, not the nature of things. [[Then let's put the rules in the drawer at all.]] [[Voice from the room: What does it mean more in agreement?]] [[Maybe after the President's signature, Mr. Marshal?]] But the formal motion has been made, and we will vote on it. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. Let me remind you: formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u9	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I ask for a recess so that during this recess you may ask the Prime Minister present in the sitting room of the Sejm to carry out the request made by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to provide the President of the Council of Ministers with information on the nomination in common courts. [[Applause]] I will remind you of the 2014 Law and Justice Programme, because the Prime Minister may no longer remember: we will bring nepotism to an end in justice. We will prevent the emergence of family clans in courts, as well as clans based on the performance of the professions of a judge, prosecutor, lawyer or counsel by persons connected with close family ties. [[Applause]] Madam President! Prime Minister! Mr Piotrowicz's daughter is nominated without a competition, and Minister Ziobro is not responding. [[Was there a contest?]] The Prime Minister isn't responding. The daughter of Mr Law and Justice becomes Vice President of the Court, and the Minister is not responding. The Prime Minister isn't responding. The fact that Minister Ziobro doesn't respond isn't even a big surprise, because his wife also works at a State Treasury company, so reacting would be unfair to a colleague, [[Applause]] But that the Prime Minister doesn't respond to any of these behaviors... Prime Minister! We have the impression, I have the impression that your resignation is just a matter of formality, because in fact, you have resigned a long time ago. You are in no way Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] You have no control over the ministers at all. Therefore, we ask that information be given at this meeting of the Sejm on all nominations in common courts for the positions of President and Vice-President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You have current information. You could have called it in.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u10	Thank you. The case was dealt with at the Senior Convention meeting. I will consider this proposal and decide whether this will not be introduced at the next session of the Sejm, and now, at this meeting, there will be current information related to this point and to this request, to a slightly broader extent. Member Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u11	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 (1) I request a break and convening of the Seniors Convention by withdrawing the joint project of Kukiz (15) and the Ministry of Justice concerning the amendment of the law on IPN. This law provided for the Penalization of flagship and protection of the dignity of the Polish nation in the world. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! A year ago, on 8 November, work was completed within the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, where representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Institute of National Remembrance and the Public Prosecutor's Office in Poland supported it. Ladies and gentlemen! How long are we going to give in to this flagship narration? How long are we gonna be passive? In 1990, the Polish Senate condemned the action of the Vistula, and the Polish Parliament is not yet able to condemn flagship or introduce into its legal order a regulation that will exonerate flagism - a criminal ideology that puts a shadow on relations between our peoples. If we don't say clearly, flagism is bad, then let's not expect it from our neighbors. I am waiting when the honorable SS Galizien will receive the Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Polish President of the Council of Ministers and the Polish President. [[Applause]] [[Very good!]] This is an outrage. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an outrage. How long are we gonna tolerate this? Ladies and gentlemen, how long? The representatives of the Ukrainian state come to us, spit in our faces, compare Marshal Piłsudski - to whom I did not have a special affection, but he is our national hero, whether we want it or not - with bandit Bandera. Our heroes from the Home Army, from the National Armed Forces, compare with bandits from the OUN-UPA. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How long? How long will we endure these humiliations? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Go to Moscow right away.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u12	I would like to inform you that this matter has been dealt with at Bureau and Senior Convention meetings, so that I do not see the need to convene the Convention once again. Please, Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to Art. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request a break, and I ask the Prime Minister to explain to all Poles about the promises made during the election campaign, when she assured Poles that she would not raise taxes and fees under any circumstances, and meanwhile, every meeting let's look at further projects from the Parliament's prints, also at this meeting, which is supposed to be used to draw billions of zlotys out of our citizens' pockets. A few months ago, when you were introducing a reduction in the retirement age, as a responsible opposition, we said from this speaker that you did not have any money for this purpose. And everything is right because today, in November, in a hurry you are looking for money in the pockets of Poles and you want to draw another 5 billion PLN out of these pockets. It is irresponsible to govern the state: to introduce solutions that do not have coverage, and then to transfer money from the pockets of some Poles... from right to left to look for these means. This is also irresponsible, because today, when you remove the ceiling for 30 times the contribution to the Social Security Office, you make another commitment to Poles, because by taking money out of their pockets today, you commit to paying higher pensions in the future. So, once again, you'll be in debt. just in the next generations of Poles, who will have to finance in the future, pay for your sins. Prime Minister! What's next? You introduced a tax on commercial galleries, increased the rent tax on apartments that will pay the youngest Polish families, introduced a bank tax, introduced a suspended trade tax for the time being, kept a higher rate on VAT, increased the ZUS for the smallest companies by PLN 600. Now, as part of the ZUS system, you want to pull another 5 billion out of the citizens' pockets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where are your election promises? I need you to settle them right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u14	Thank you. In this case, we will rule against the introduction of the bill on the agenda. There's an MP's voice... Formal application by Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u15	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to do it according to the article. 184 to ask for a break and to convene the Senior Convention, because this debate, Mr Marshal, particularly Mr Romansky's speech, is the best proof that the agenda of this sitting of the Sejm should be supplemented by the point that we have proposed, i.e. about the information of Prime Minister Szydło on Polish-Ukrainian relations in the context, among others. recent statements by Polish government ministers, as well as of course the Ukrainian reaction. Poland, Ukraine, Central and Eastern Europe need cooperation, they need stability, predictability, mutual understanding in order to solve common problems, including the historic, painful ones mentioned by Mr Romansky. Thanks to such an attitude, the Orląt cemetery and other Polish memorial sites look much better today than 20 years ago. We can take care of them, we can exhume them, we can study them. The tightening of Polish-Ukrainian relations will put an end to this. No Polish memorial site will be commemorated if we talk to the Ukrainians in the language offered by Minister Waszczykowski in Vilnius. It is also a curiosity visit, a 2-day visit - sorry, in Lviv - Polish Minister for Foreign Affairs in Lviv. If the German Foreign Minister came to my Szczecin, taught Poles where they could lay flowers and where they shouldn't, and only met with the Germans, and he didn't meet with anyone officially, we would take it badly. That's exactly what happened. This language does not serve us, it does not serve Ukraine. He's ruining our relationship. We need to work in a different atmosphere. Therefore, Prime Minister, that is why, Mr Marshal, this debate is needed - in order not only to hear extreme voices from Poland and Ukraine. We need a clear, strong, good signal from the Polish Prime Minister, who tells us what the Polish foreign policy looks like, as we imagine [[♪ The bell ♪]] to have a relationship with the Ukrainians. We ask for this debate for the good of Poland and for the good of Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u16	Thank you. I would like to inform you that this issue has also been discussed by the Senior Convention. I am not avoiding this debate, but because this proposal was tabled 2 days before the Sejm meeting, and it needs to be prepared, I have decided that we will wait with this, all the more so because, ladies and gentlemen, you will have the opportunity to take part in an hour-long debate. also in this case during current information, because just the relations between Poland and its closest neighbours, including Ukraine, this current information will be devoted. We've actually got formal applications for two, I think... Ladies and gentlemen, a request to postpone - but he will consume all other requests for a break - I will put to the vote. In that case, prepare yourself and we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 393 Members voted. 164 voted against - 229, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are now voting on the 1978 printing report. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft act on the Institute of Solidarity and Courage, prints 1970 and 1978, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. The vote was 230 against - 162, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on the printing report 1982. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system, in print No. 1975 and 1982, will want to raise its hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. 224 voted against - 173, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The authorised entities have submitted draft laws: - about the Marshal's Guard - print No. 1971, - Provisions introducing the Marshal's Guard Act - print No 1972, - about the State Protection Service - print No 1916, - on the amendment of the Act on the social security system and certain other laws - print No 1974. At the meeting of the Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of these projects. These are, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on I will put these items to the vote in turn to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 The adoption of the proposal to complete the agenda for printing 1974 will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We proceed with the vote on the draft print bill 1971. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following item: First reading of the Commission's draft Marshal's Guard Act, print 1971, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 246 voted against 148 and 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on the draft law from print No. 1972. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the Commission's draft law Rules introducing the Marshal's Guard Act, print 1972, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. There were 247 votes against and 148 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on the draft law from print no. 1916. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law on the State Protection Service, print No. 1916, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. 219 voted against - 177, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on the draft print bill 1974. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government bill amending the Social Security Act and some other laws, print 1974, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 227 voted against - 169, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in joint discussions: - on the reports on the draft laws: on the amendment of the Budget Act for 2017, on the amendment of the Law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017, - in the first readings of the draft laws: on the Marshal's Guard, Provisions introducing the Law on the Marshal's Guard. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the current relations between Poland and its immediate neighbours and the policy of the Polish Government towards our neighbours, with particular emphasis on Ukraine, Germany, Lithuania, Belarus, in the context of recent decisions and statements by representatives of the Polish Government, which was proposed by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Commission will meet: - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12.30, - Legal notice - hour. 12.30, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13, - Health-- hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Infrastructure together with the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs - h.m. 15, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Education, Science and Youth - hour 16, - Public Finance - hour. 17, - Senior policy - h.m. 17, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 17, - Infrastructure - hour 5:30 p.m., - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 5:30 p.m., - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 18, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 18, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 19. As far as teams are concerned, meetings are scheduled: - at 1 p.m. 10 - Parliamentary Panel on Reforms of the Justice dimension, - at 1 p.m. 13 - Parliamentary Panel on diabetes - at 1 p.m. 14 - Parliamentary Group on Autism and Parliamentary Group for Patients' rights, - at 1 p.m. 14 - The Parliamentary Group of the Child's well-being as the highest objective, - at 1 p.m. 2.30 p.m. - Parliamentary Panel on Chemical industry, - at 1 p.m. 15 - Parliamentary Panel on Organisation for Health Protection, - at 1 p.m. 16 - Parliamentary Panel on Loreliosis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u18	We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities (prints Nos 1934 and 1981). I ask Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u19	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation, I would like to present a report on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities, contained in print No 1934. The first reading of this draft law took place at the 50th meeting of the Sejm on 27 October this year. The project was examined by the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation on 7 November, which welcomed both its main objectives and the detailed arrangements for their implementation. The bill is cross-cutting and comprehensive. This means that although it includes changes in several different laws, they all have one common denominator. This is, of course, about the improvement of the legal environment mentioned in the title of the Act, and therefore the removal of barriers and the building of system support for innovative activities. Using this specificity of the draft law, the deregulation committee outside the editorial and legislative amendment group introduced several substantive amendments. The Commission has unanimously delivered a positive opinion on the draft law. This project has a positive opinion of the Social Dialogue Council, which brings together more than 100 associations. This is another bill prepared by Minister Jarosław Gowin, which was created in consensus with all political communities. In the opinion of the committee, the draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities should be assessed positively. It is an important step to strengthen cooperation between science and business in Poland, which will allow us to build an innovative economy. In view of the above, on behalf of the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation, I would ask the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u20	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has agreed that we will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The need to improve the regulatory environment for innovative activities was raised in the exposé by Ms Beata Szydło, President of the Council of Ministers, delivered on 18 November 2015. During the work of the Council for Innovation and Interministerial Innovation Team, established on 18 January 2016, the concept of rapid implementation into Polish law of the best described instruments for innovation support was created, as reflected in the Act of 4 November 2016 amending certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities. At the same time, work has been undertaken on the preparation of a draft second law on innovation. The drafting of this draft law responds to the demands of different environments, in particular entrepreneurs, scientific entities and investors. Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, Minister of Science and Higher Education, conducted a very broad public consultation even before he started writing the project. This allowed for precise identification of shortcomings in the system of law restricting Polish innovation. The final conclusions of the consultation are set out in the Innovation White Paper. The bill itself was passed to more than 80 entities and was positively assessed by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. The revised after the first stage of the consultation reached almost 60 actors. This stage was very carefully prepared. The bill is horizontal in nature, i.e. implies the amendment of a number of laws affecting the conditions for innovation activities. Each of these changes is slightly different in nature, but in order to identify the main thematic blocks, it is important to mention, first, the tax changes, the most important of which is to increase the amount of the R &amp; D reduction to 100%. costs incurred, regardless of the size of the trader. The second thematic block is to create opportunities for a wider involvement of pro-innovative public institutions. In particular, it is about enabling the Minister to announce programmes in the area of innovation of the economy, as well as introducing new forms of action of the National Centre for Research and Development and the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development in the form of e.g. financial instruments. The third thematic block includes science and higher education. In this area, it should be noted that scientific units in the form of companies should be extended, the scope of monitoring of the fate of graduates should be extended to include PhD students and the deregulation of the procedure for determining the Polish road map of research infrastructure. The Extraordinary Commission on deregulation, which I have the honour to chair, has introduced a number of clarification and drafting amendments to the proposal, as well as substantive amendments that raise its pro-innovation value. Thanks to the amendments, among others. We will facilitate the financing of start-ups or expand the possibility of carrying out the research necessary for digitization progress. At the same time, I would like to emphasise how important it is to continue the smooth process of the project. In view of the fact that it covers tax arrangements, it should be announced within a time limit allowing taxable persons to familiarise themselves with it and to apply it from 1 January 2018. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Poland's development model in recent years, even though it allowed economic growth to continue, was not a direct result of innovation. To get out of the so-called. medium development traps, it is necessary to exploit the creative potential of Polish entrepreneurs and scientists and build a knowledge-based economy. In my opinion, today's bill is an important step towards achieving this objective. It contains a number of deregulation solutions and aims to strengthen the public support system for innovative entrepreneurs. With this in mind, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities. Moreover, we are convinced that this project can be adopted unanimously by the High House. To the draft Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will make another amendment, which is the result of the consensual and constructive work of the deregulation committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What's that?]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u22	Thank you, sir. I have been asked to inform the High House that our deliberations are being listened to, but I see that they are already leaving their seats, students from classes IV and V along with teachers from St. Queen Jadwiga in Warsaw. We greet both students and teachers. [[Applause]] I would like to ask the floor of Maria Margaret Janyska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill, which is here today at second reading, is intended to improve the legal environment of innovative activities. At the same time, this project here, in the Seym, please, is being processed at an express rate and in a hurry, which unfortunately can affect the quality of this legislation, the quality of this bill. Yesterday, during the work of the committee, a number of questions were asked, which concerned the vagueness of terminology, definitions, impreciseness, compliance with the provisions in the so-called. the laws of the mother records that were included in this project. These questions were not answered at the committee meeting. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it would be advisable for one more committee meeting to be held before today's second reading - unfortunately this did not happen. You could have done it. Originally, in a timetable that had not yet been agreed, this point was to be considered today at 3 p.m. 17.15, second reading, which is until noon, we could still have a discussion with the resorts and prepare amendments so that the value of this project is as high as possible. Because, as the chairman of the committee said, the value of this project was appreciated by everyone, but even those who participated in the discussion, in the consultation and are members of the Social Dialogue Council, yesterday made comments and unfortunately did not get an answer. They learned, for example, that we are proceeding on this law, but the discussion was at first general reading and today is a request to limit ourselves to concrete, see amendments. I would like to remind you that the first reading took place in the plenary room, and therefore the social side had no opportunity to discuss and refer to this, all the more so since these auto-corrections which had not been consulted and analysed were also immediately made to the project that was sent to the committee. So if we want to improve the quality of the legal environment, let us also take care, and perhaps above all, that the work in this House on projects is the most appropriate and exhausting subject matter. This haste which you spoke about is that the laws which result in tax obligations must be drawn up in due time, adopted and sent to taxpayers in due time. It had to be dealt with earlier, ladies and gentlemen, because if this project had been examined for so long, it had to be put before the committee meeting and we could really all respond to it. I have the amendments here prepared, but these amendments do not cover the whole, because there was no response from the Ministry to the questions, and there are no auto-corrections here today, I guess. I do not know what amendment the chairman of the committee made, it is difficult for me to refer to it, we will refer to it at the committee meeting. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to some aspects such as: Although it has been pointed out - repeating further in the committee's report the definition of net revenue - that these are net revenue, please countries, without tax on goods and services. So I understand that we're introducing a new definition here, that net revenue is net revenue minus tax on goods and services, so we're charging tax twice. This is some kind of psychic. But if this, ladies and gentlemen, remains in this project, I think that unfortunately this value will result from a haste. It is also a matter of uniform terminology when it comes to the adoption in the accounts of the financial year, which is referred to here as the calendar year, and in all other subsequent records there is a reference to the financial year. The financial year does not have to be the same as the calendar year, and this is probably also obvious and clear, and therefore it is necessary to apply, at least in my opinion, a broader concept, including other concepts. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have some details, including on the eligible costs. We also propose that the costs of obtaining expertise, opinions, advisory services, equivalent services... so that they may also be purchased from non-public entities. We propose that Article be deleted completely. 5 because the competences which are conferred on the Technical Supervision Authority in this project do not relate at all to the subject matter of the so-called. the technical supervision activities that are carried out. We also propose to delete the article which refers to the Law on Patent Advocates, because the entire separate law is being examined in this respect, so it should be found there. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not referring to [[♪ The bell ♪]] the whole chapter 4, unfortunately added, which is probably desirable, but there are such defining and terminological inconsistencies which were not explained, that it is even difficult to relate in the amendments, because it is not known that I will say in quotes what the poet meant. Thank you very much and I am making amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u24	Thank you very much, Member. Before I ask the Member, I would like to welcome guests to the gallery, this time from Primary School No. 4 with their integration teams. Bronisław Chąciński from Łukow. The students are with the guardians. [[Applause]] We cordially greet you. And please take the floor of Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u25	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I'll be in Łukow on November 17th so I can see you. And going to the project: it is very good that we are dealing with the topic of innovation. Poland is in fourth place for an innovative economy in the European Union, but from the end. In my opinion, the step towards a more innovative economy is less regulation, less taxation, so that the entrepreneur can look or find, develop different ways to provide better services and goods, not bureaucracy. If we look at the most innovative economies or economies that have increased their innovation the most, it was when there was as little regulation as possible and when there was so-called. Free American. Going to the project: I'm not going to talk about positives, there's a little bit of them, but they're talking about the project. I'm going to say a little bit about those flaws that haven't been avoided. First of all, the project includes new information obligations, and further ones which, in my opinion, contribute to such low innovation. The beneficiaries of the relief will have to submit additional reports to the tax office on the date of submission of the tax return. Second point: Zone operators which have so far been completely deprived of the right to benefit from research and development benefits will already be entitled to them, but to a limited extent. Once again, I ask the question: Why only to a limited extent? Let's expand it on the same basis as others. Another downside is the introduction of special preferences for the use of R &amp; D allowances for R &amp; D centres, and this status is given by the decision of officials, and this is where the temptation to grant benefits will arise by giving this status to friendly companies. The less decision-making of an official, the more just businessmen operate, the less temptations of abuse, the less temptation of corruption. Another downside that I would like to say is that in order to obtain relief, one should get an opinion, and this opinion should be issued either by the Central Statistical Office or by the tax office. And here is the question: Will the tax authorities, any tax office whose purpose is to train the taxpayer's pockets as much as possible, the trader, want to grant relief to entrepreneurs? I don't think that's gonna be in the interest of the IRS. Just as it is not in the interest of the police to issue arms permits because the police want to have a monopoly on violence, the tax authorities want to have as much influence as possible, and they won't want to grant relief to entrepreneurs either. So I'd rather be inclined to apply some universal rules. We meet the criteria - okay, we have these benefits for innovation, but so that there is as little decision-making as possible for officials. I am sure that when there is less bureaucracy, there will be lower taxes, this innovation will grow and we will stop being the fourth country since the end of the European Union, but we will only be the fourth country, but from the beginning. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u26	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club, please take the floor. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending certain laws to improve the legal environment of innovative activities is a law which introduces a number of new regulations and changes in the area of innovation, such as tax changes concerning patent self-government, changes in the status of CBR, the activities of the National Centre for Research and Development and the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. We support the general direction, after work in committee, yesterday's work in the deregulation committee, we noticed that in general the direction of change is supported by all clubs. Of course, the problem is always in the details we discussed yesterday. The modern position is that we will support this law, we will vote in favour, but I will make two amendments, I will make two amendments to Mr Marshal. First amendment. Yesterday we mentioned an extension in the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 definition of the company - that is paragraph. Point 3 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h) d. The idea is that instead of a R &amp; D company, it would This is so important that according to the Act, the R &amp; D activity narrows this area down and eliminates IT companies, and we know that companies in this industry are the driving force behind innovation, changes worldwide. And here we consider it necessary to support and treat this sector with a great deal of attention. So this is the first amendment. The second relates to Article. Point 7 (4). Art. 86ba is replaced by the following: For the performance of commercialisation activities and the contribution to the special purpose vehicle, including for the purpose of setting up the special purpose vehicle, and for the conduct of its activities, the provisions of the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and of the Law on the formation of remuneration of persons managing certain companies shall not apply. I also make such an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of introducing the possibility for universities to create special purpose companies, spin-offs by public universities, research institutes, was to stimulate cooperation between the scientific community and the business environment. It is extremely important that this cooperation is based on similar principles that market companies have, i.e. flexibility, the ability to react quickly, the abolition of any formal barriers, bureaucracy faced by public universities. If these companies are not excluded from the two laws I mentioned, these companies will lose their competitive advantages. The initial capital of the special purpose vehicles is usually 100,000, 200,000. zł. They can't have the same rules of play as companies like KGHM, Orlen, who have a billion-dollar share capital of tens of billions of zlotys. It's very disruptive to competition. The same applies to the second part of this amendment - the wage-setting law causes young entrepreneurs, students or scientists to fail to meet the requirements of the above-mentioned provisions. They do not have at least five years of professional experience required from members of the management bodies and do not meet the requirements for members of the supervisory boards. And there are such paradoxes when the rector, professor, initiator or co-author of an invention, managing a public university with a budget of PLN 200.300 million, cannot, on behalf of the company, be a member of the supervisory board. I think this is the moment for us to deal with these regulations and not introduce laws with such errors that will slow down the development of innovation and, above all, the possibility of healthy competition for all these companies. Ladies and gentlemen! I know what I'm talking about, because I've been starting-ups myself, I've been raising capital from investors, business angel or capital venture, and I know how well small, efficient, private companies are in position, and how great ideas are given by spin-off companies of public universities who struggle with these regulations and very often lose [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the very beginning because they are burdened with the laborious, heavy rules of their mother companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u28	Thank you, Member. Mr John Łopata, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the report of the committee on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities. High Izbo! The scope of the work and the proposed amendments to the bill, which we were working on during the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, were presented by the rapporteur a few minutes ago. It can be said that the vast majority of these amendments were legislative amendments or maybe even language amendments. Of course, we support them. Most substantive amendments, too, are reasonable and justified and will gain our support. He raised a discussion and raised some doubts - I think that the doubts raised were not fully resolved - art. 5 of this bill. It seems that this is a bit of a regulation that does not fit into the whole and goes beyond the scope specified in the Act. What exactly is going on here? It's in the article. 37a of the Technical Dosorry Act states that the Office of Technical Supervision may provide support to entities whose activities include the dissemination of scientific and technical achievements and knowledge, and - and here - of this doubt - the provision of public security. In fact, it is not entirely clear why this provision or the extension of the provision to public security. In general, it is appropriate to agree with the idea contained in this legal regulation that the institution, which is the Technical Supervision Authority, should be able to provide support to entities whose activities include the dissemination of scientific and technical achievements and knowledge. The proposed amendment will allow for, among others, to actively participate in agreeing technical schools and universities' educational plans and programmes covering their programme or the scope of training in the field of technical equipment safety. High Izbo! The scope of the changes in the procedated act is quite extensive. It includes changes in 13 laws, although it is worth noting that as many as 340 proposals for amendments were tabled during the consultation, as it was stated, so today's amendment or this procedated act does not yet cover the various proposals that have been submitted and which, of course, require consideration, discussion and time, but I think it is worth going back to that. The most important changes or group of major changes are, of course, related to the tax area. It is proposed to increase the amount of tax relief for R &amp; D activities to 100% and for R &amp; D centres up to 150%. It is important to clarify and extend the catalogue of eligible costs in terms of the R &amp; D relief. A separate catalogue of costs has also been proposed for R &amp; D centres. It seems worth noting that companies operating in special economic zones will also be able to benefit from the proposed relief after the adoption of this law. High Seym! The policy of tax relief may raise some discussions or doubts, but it is worth quoting the results of American research, which prove that the dollar in the framework of the tax credit for research and development contributes to the increase in spending on this research on just this dollar. The countries of the world differ in their policy indicators on the functioning of innovation systems. I think we should also note that Poland increased its share of R &amp; D expenditure in 2008 and 2015 significantly. This ratio has increased from 0.6% compared to GDP. up to 1%. The increasing participation of companies in R &amp; D financing should also be noted. During the same period, in these years 2008 and 2015 there was an increase from 30% to 39%. This is a very positive trend and I think the proposed tax changes will strengthen these good trends. It may still be worth noting that the Act also includes positive changes in the procedure for obtaining the status of R &amp; D centres and granting them a tax credit. The draft law also extends the possibilities for scientific entities to operate in the form of companies. High Izbo! The innovative, modern economy is a very important task, [[♪ The bell ♪]] an important objective. It should be pursued and the club of the Polish People's Party will support these solutions discussed, consulted with a group of interested parties. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u30	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities. I would like to remind you that the bill submitted is already the second stage of the changes which are intended to improve the legal environment of innovative activities. The aim of the proposed changes is to reduce barriers to operating and to make tax instruments more attractive. Once again, I must emphasise that the law is horizontal in nature. I believe that this approach to the Polish economy and the continuous improvement of its level of innovation will have a positive impact on the perception of the Polish economy in the international arena. There is no doubt that when that happens, all our citizens will benefit from it. This approach of the government to innovation and the desire to continuously raise its level must be seen as a good step towards the development of our country, economic development. It should be stressed that the implementation of the measures envisaged will contribute to achieving the objectives set out in the Responsible Development Plan of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. We must also bear in mind that we are not able to achieve all the intended objectives without legislative changes. Therefore, the White Paper on Innovation has identified these solutions which cannot be achieved without legislative changes, e.g. on tax reliefs. A number of amendments to the Act were tabled at the Extraordinary Commission meeting. The Commission adopted the draft together with the amendments. I believe that the changes made are necessary and very beneficial for the Polish economy, and this will translate into an increase in the competitiveness of enterprises and an increase in demand for their production. Once again, I will stress that the proposed changes meet social expectations, mainly the business community, scientific entities or investors. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the procedated bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u32	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? If not, please take the floor and ask Mrs Fabisiak for a question. You're welcome. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that we want to improve the legal environment of innovative activities. Who is this bill addressed to? Why just for business, just for research and science institutions? Why isn't he... Since this is a government project, I understand it includes a whole, and the whole is made up of young people and even very young people. As you certainly know, in the world, mostly in the United States, a dozen percent of inventions of the highest rank are made by very young people, often underage, while in Poland there is no problem at all. There are no programs for these people, there is no legal security. I would expect this law to include this group as well. The question is whether innovation in Poland is not what it looks like, or wrong, because we do not appreciate it, we start only with a student, a scientist, while the whole world starts first with creative programs in high school, and then from investment in innovation, to start-ups for very young people, including minors. Does the government have any proposals in this regard, or does it have any draft laws, or is it planning any solutions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u34	Thank you. Mr Sitarski wrote. Then Mrs Anna Nemś. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the following Chapter 4a in Article: 21d in the mouth. 2 You have written down: The Minister responsible for Economic Affairs may refuse to grant financial assistance to the entities referred to in Article. 21c, if he takes reasonable doubt about its proper use. I would ask you to answer whether such a record, which is subjective, judgmental, is really consistent with the idea that you presented, which is the idea of transparency, because we wanted it to be real help and that we could all benefit from it. In our view, this provision is not consistent with the idea of this law. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u36	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. In this regard, I ask that the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Minister Piotr Dardziński speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by thanking you, because it really required intensive work by all the environments involved in innovative processes. So I should thank scientists and investors and entrepreneurs first of all for their very active participation in the public consultation, in the preparation of the White Paper. As a result, this document, which certainly still has minor errors, has been prepared and is widely recognised as a big step towards development and promotion of innovation in Poland. This would not be possible without very efficient work in the Sejm, very efficient work in the deregulation committee, for which I would like to thank Mr Wojciechow Murdzk very warmly, also thanking all the members of the Extraordinary Commission, because, indeed, the work - although it has been pointed out to the ambiguities that could possibly appear in the bill - is going on in a very good atmosphere. The doubts in large part were explained at yesterday's committee meeting. It will also be possible today to refer to a few threads that you have touched, e.g. to the issue of the Technical Supervision Office, because the chairman of the UDT will be involved in the work of the committee. On the other hand, I would like to say that the time taken to prepare the bill - if you have asked and pointed out this in your questions, Maria Janyska spoke about it - was very long, and in this sense in particular the social partners had a lot of opportunities to draw attention to those provisions which they thought could possibly give rise to any risk of misuse or adverse effects on innovation processes. That is why we think that this law has been very, very carefully discussed by these environments. The UDT issues will probably be explained to you today. As a general rule, we believe that the Technical Supervision Authority and the authorities in general should be much more involved in cooperation with the social partners. And here, with a little reference to Mrs Fabisiak's question, I would add that this is not the subject of this law, this law implements one of the pillars of the strategy of Prime Minister Gowin, namely the strategy of opening universities and opening up science to the economy. On the other hand, one of the three other pillars is the pillar of openness to cooperation with society. And we have special programs here. It is for secondary schools, and not only for secondary schools, that we have a program called "Naukobus" which is about such a flying laboratory that is being implemented throughout Poland, that we already have a more systematic program called "University of the Young Discovery," we are working on a project of programs of such centers, such as "Orliks," but scientific ones. These jobs are going on. They as if they were not directly concerned with commercialisation of research, which to a large extent are part of activity and innovation, and in a natural way cannot be included in this law, but that does not mean that the government is not perceived. In Mr Kulesza's statements and some others, there have been threads concerning a certain degree of freedom in administrative decision-making. Mrs Nemś also mentioned this. The thing is, about this last record, it is a copy of the regulation that is already in existence today when it comes to PARP. This is a provision - because the Ministry of Development will have a wider opportunity to act, as you mentioned, the administration will also be able to support innovation processes more - which, however, is intended to protect the proper use of public funds. We don't enter here. the new regulation, which has already been working for us today, many times for many years, also in the previous term, solutions that have not been controversial among entrepreneurs, we are moving in a similar way to those that the Ministry of Development will have to guide. Mr Kulesza mentioned that the use of the R &amp; D relief would require the approval of officials. It seems to me that the contents of this record have been misunderstood. The benefit of the relief is the fact that R &amp; D activities themselves are carried out. Nor do we increase the information obligations, because all this information which will be transmitted to the tax office by the entrepreneur in the field of R &amp; D is the same as the information that he has to provide to the Central Statistical Office today. So the entrepreneur merely informs that he benefits from relief, he does not have to ask for any permission to benefit from relief. The same is true of R &amp; D centres. It is not possible, here, to quote from a fellow Member's statement, to grant the status of R &amp; D centres, because there are strict conditions that economic operators who want to be a R &amp; D centre must fulfil. They only ask the Minister of Development to register and as if the Minister of Development in this case is acting as the registry manager so that all the partners of these R &amp; D centres know who this centre is and who is not. The issue of patent officials is an issue that indirectly affects us, but indeed affects us here. In general, patenting issues were very often raised by entrepreneurs during our public consultations. In this case, the regulations that we introduce are abolishing the conflict of interest in the patent government, which also affects the operation of the patent office. And it seems to us that this regulation is not contrary to those proposals which are prepared in subsequent legislative amendments, and it is urgent enough that it would be good for it to be preserved in this law. As far as support is concerned, I will return to the youth and technology transfer centres for a moment, and Mrs Joanna Schmidt mentioned the difficulties encountered by the companies set up by scientists in order to commercialise research. And here I would like to draw your attention to some distinctions, differences that exist in two types of companies. The provisions which have been put forward on the matter concern special purpose vehicles. The purpose companies are not the same as the so-called ones. spin-off companies, i.e. companies that are used to commercialise research. The main difference is that 100 percent of the target company is owned by a university - and in this sense it is to some extent public - whereas companies that are called to commercialise research have very often already external shareholders who enter with their capital, and in this sense they are no longer public companies and they can act as any other company. Our limitations on ownership apply only to special purpose vehicles, because they are equipped with public property. Therefore, if they are equipped with public property, they should be subject to the same rules as those of all entities that have public property. On the other hand, special purpose companies can set up spin-offs, i.e. they can set up companies dedicated to commercialization, specific research and then operate in an absolutely identical way, as flexibly as all others. Once again, thanking you for your support for the solutions that have been prepared and enjoying the opportunity for entrepreneurs to use them, I ask you to adopt the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u39	The government draft law amending certain laws to improve the legal environment of innovative activities concerns, in line with the justification, a number of legal changes to improve the regulatory environment of innovative activities, e.g.: tax changes, extension of the possibility of obtaining the status of CBR, changes in the scope and form of activities of the National Centre for Research and Development and the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, the possibility for the Minister responsible for the economy to provide assistance under programmes in the area of innovation. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Minister! The university may entrust a special purpose vehicle with the management of performance rights or know-how and research infrastructure by means of a contract for payment or free of charge. The special purpose vehicle may carry out, as an additional business activity, an organisationally and financially separate business. Who is responsible for liabilities, claims, etc. A special purpose company?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u40	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft act on the Institute of Solidarity and Courage (prints No. 1970 and 1978). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary bill on the Institute of Solidarity and Courage. The aim of this law is to create a research institute. According to Art. 3 (1) (a) 1 of this law: The purpose of the Institute's activities is to initiate, undertake and support activities aimed at commemorating and honoring people living, dead or murdered, deserving to the Polish people, both in Poland and abroad, in the work of caring for memory or helping people of Polish nationality or Polish citizens of other nationalities who are victims of Soviet crimes, Nazi German crimes, nationalistic crimes or other crimes that constitute crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes, between 8 November 1917 and 31 July 1990. In the explanatory memorandum of this law we read: The safety and development of each country depends, among others. from good relations with other nations built on truth, even extremely painful. But besides the need to tell the truth about the tragic events of the past, there is a duty to appreciate those who save Poles and pay for it often with their lives and their families. We also want to commemorate Poles saving their fellow citizens. It is important to appreciate those who witnessed to the truth about the crimes in the Polish nation or helped to come to it, often exposing themselves to repression. We have an unpaid debt of gratitude to these people. We want to pay our respects. The task of the Republic of Poland is therefore to express gratitude to those righteous who are still alive and to consolidate their heroism. They are the greatest friends of Poland and Poles who, in the most wonderful way possible, gave a witness with personal heroism and dedication in the hour of trial. Tens of years after tragic events most heroes, whose Polish collectiveity owes gratitude, are already dead. In many cases, the Polish state will therefore be able to honor the representatives of the next generations. We must also remember those who often in remote parts of the world gave refuge to refugees from inhumane lands. Without them, many Polish lives would not survive. Appreciation of noble people and deeds, expressing gratitude to the righteous is an action in international relations that brings out and exposes what is best and most honorable in relations between nations. Thus, such activities can be the greatest steps leading to mutual understanding and reconciliation. The Institute's tasks, in accordance with the provisions of the Act, include: conducting and supporting scientific research, conducting and expanding databases, books and archives, popularising this issue through publishing activities, production of audiovisual materials and other activities. The bodies of the Institute shall be the Director and the Council of Remembrance. The revenue shall be an entity subsidy determined annually in the Budget Act, transferred by the Minister from the appropriations entered in that part of the budget to which he is the authorising officer. It's about the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, because I don't think I've said that before. The Minister will grant a grant of PLN 75 million from the State budget to the Institute in 2017. Unused in 2017 funds from the grant I mentioned will be transferred to the following year. By order of order, the Minister shall appoint a representative for the organisation of the Institute of Solidarity and Courage within 14 days of the entry into force of that law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I would like to ask the High House to adopt the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u42	Thank you, Member. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is a parliamentary bill, created and presented by parliamentarians of Law and Justice, so it is clear that the Law and Justice Club supports the creation of the Institute of Solidarity and Courage, supports the draft of this law. The purpose of the institute is to build a strong Polish institution, whose task will be to commemorate and honor the people deserved for the Polish people, it is about a special kind of merit, such as. Saving our compatriots in the worst times for Poland, when they were paid with life or repression. We want to strengthen our memory of them because she's missing. Their story hasn't really been told. The worst elements that crossed Europe in the 20th century, as it always happens, some of the victims were chosen by Poles. German Nazism, Russian communism, nationalism are criminal ideologies, which also had a hatred for everything that Poland and Poles represented. There must be an institution which not only documents, as already existing, what crimes were committed on Poles and citizens of the Republic, but also must document the memory of those who saved or helped to find out the truth about the crimes which were committed on Poles and citizens of the Republic. The most important thing for us is that we can tell the world out loud: there are people - our neighbors, but also the citizens of the world - who gave their lives for Poles, gave their lives for their neighbours, gave their lives for citizens of the Republic. We really deserve to know this story and tell it. We also want to honor those people, those who are still alive. When time passes naturally, we also want their descendants to know what their ancestors had. We want to be remembered not only for those who saved lives, risking their lives, but also for those who, like the people of the Russian Memorial, helped us to come to the truth, e.g. About the crimes in Katyn. We want to celebrate and appreciate those who saved Polish existence, not necessarily putting their lives at risk, but by sacrificing their efforts, money, commitment, for example. Save Polish orphans, just like the Prime Minister New Zealand. More than 700 Polish children orphaned in Siberia, who left with Anders' army, found shelter there. New Zealand was one of the few countries in the world that responded to the London Government's appeal for shelter for Polish orphans. We also want to appreciate India. Polish children also survived there. It's not just gonna be a story about suffering and Martyrology. It will also be a story about how great, how noble were those who engaged in saving Poland, the Republic of Poland, Polish citizens. I want to make a few amendments, which first of all clean up and clarify the functioning of this institute. We want to introduce e.g. the term of office of the director, i.e. these are organisational amendments, but two of them are very important. We're proposing a change of name. The applicants proposed a name: the Institute of Solidarity and Courage. We want to name the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. It seems that courage in relation to the actions of these people we want to talk about is a phrase behind a narrow one. It was bravery, it required bravery sometimes unimaginable, so we would like to change the name. The second very important amendment is the introduction of a new award. We want these people to be decorated with the Virtus et Fraternitas medal, which is the medal of bravery and brotherhood. This special award will be given by the President of the Republic at the request of the Institute. Of course, the Institute will also retain the right of initiative in the field of broadcasting through notification [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the Ministry of the Eastern Cross and the Western Cross, as well as other important Polish decorations. Thank you very much and I ask you to support this project. It seems obvious that such an institute should work for a long time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u44	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that from yesterday to today, applicants have at least gotten a little bit of reflection and this so pompous name that was before, they have changed a little bit. Before that, it was called the Institute of Solidarity and Courage. To tell you the truth, I was a little surprised at how much courage it took to file a sloppy bill in such a mode. Until the last moment, applicants could not ensure that representatives of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage were present from the beginning of this debate. They just didn't say there was a slight acceleration. So I don't blame the minister, God forbid, but somehow it happened. I would like to say that the work on this project looked as follows. The project appeared on October 26th. On 31 October, members of the committee were informed that the first reading would be on 7 November. On 6 November, we were talking about amending the budget for 2017 and it turned out that we are giving PLN 75 million to an institute that we know nothing about. On 7 November, the proposal for this institute was presented by the applicants at a committee meeting, and on 8 November there is a debate to close this procedure. The Act will enter into force after 7 days, within 14 days the Minister will appoint a proxy, and then it will actually not start within 3 months. So much for the procedure. It seems to me that if this topic is so important to applicants - and I understand that it is, I have heard it for two days in a row - then maybe it would be better to approach it with a little bit more piety, also with more piety towards those for whom this law is. I didn't notice that Pietism. If this topic, this institute is so important, however, I would like to see the Minister or the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, because it is to be a Ministry Institute, could present to Members even an outline of the functioning, some calendar, tell them what this 75 million PLN is meant to be for. In the meantime, what's it like? The Minister will issue a statute, appoint a director, appoint a Council of Remembrance. In a word, it's all in Minister Gliński's head right now. I believe that all good thoughts are there, but if we're gonna raise our hands behind this project, we'd rather know at least some of those thoughts. At yesterday's committee meeting, as usual, very competent and convincing Minister Gawin said very interesting things with which I agree, but they did not refer to this law. Because the minister talked about the resort center of totalitarian research and its achievements. It's great that this facility is working, especially since you've extinguished the same ministry, the Council for the Protection of Combat and Martyrdom. Actually, it's really very good, but this bill is about something else. And how to look at it in substance - and we also talked about it - are actually these competences, so broad and with such huge hopes, partly about the tasks and competences of the IPN, the Polish Academy of Sciences or the General Directorate of State Archives. I will no longer talk about numerous museums, which also carry out scientific activities. If we have the World War II Museum, we have the right to expect that there will also be attempts to find such people. If there is a Jewish Historical Institute, then they do nothing else, but just among others. looking around the world for people who also helped Polish Jews. At the same meeting it turned out that we would build the Museum of Kresów - I understand that it will be the Museum of Kresów in Lublin that will deal with this subject. If the Sibir museum is being built in Bialystok, I understand that the Sibir museum will also be able to handle it. There is nothing in this law about the relationship between these institutions in terms of competence. Here's what I'm gonna say: they've been there so far. [[♪ The bell ♪]] different methods of pushing the settings. At this point, blackmail came because you say the target is noble. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There was 75 million zlotys, you sat down, you wrote a bill on your knees, and you think that a noble purpose justifies everything. He doesn't justify it. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I submit a motion to reject the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u46	Thank you, Member. And I ask for the floor of Elizabeth Zielińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting my position on behalf of the Kukiz club15 on the establishment of the Institute of Solidarity and Courage. At this point we already know that the name will be different - solidarity and bravery. First of all, I would like to start with funding, because on Monday we had a meeting of the cultural committee, where we asked questions about funding and the decision to finance an institution that does not actually exist yet. We have really asked Minister Lewandowski these questions several times, and his answer was very arrogant, because if the Minister does not answer the question, he simply says that there is a project, the project is a parliamentary one, so we have a duty to ensure that it is a project for the State, it is a parliamentary one, and we provide all the means if the Minister answers in this way and does not dispel doubts about the legality of financing, as to the fact that we are financing the institution first and then establishing it, that is very wrong. As far as the justification for the project is concerned, Minister Gawin has convinced me completely of this justification in the committee, but this justification should be included in the proposal. She was talking specifically about archives, what are the needs, what more research needs to be done, and that was actually the justification we expected in the project, so convincing. And that's not in the print. The Kukiz Club has repeatedly submitted, initiated such gestures, e.g. to the Ukrainian side, to honor those Ukrainians who rescued Poles in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska, but how this institute is invoked also proves the great manipulation of MEPs, political manipulation, because if on the one hand the institute is called up and on the other hand our flagship bill is thrown out, it is very wrong. It is said that the Germans are falsifying history - and it is true - that they are creating their own history of World War II, and at the same time in Ukraine we are making such gestures that we give them money, and they write books, praise UPA, accept our politicians among the black and red flags - it is very wrong. This is some kind of political blackmail: you do not want to set up an institute because you do not want to commemorate these people. We want to commemorate these people, but we also want institutions to be created in a formal way that leaves no doubt, because in the case of this funding we really asked ourselves why another institute. Minister Gawin convinced me, however, that this is such a plot that this institution should be set up, but, as I have already mentioned, this formal side to which Minister Lewandowski refers has not been explained. I wonder if this kind of quick proceding is really good for setting up such an institution, because instead of starting a real debate... I would also like to hear what it looks like from researchers, what needs they have. I would like to hear the justification from scientists, from those who are already on the subject. I would also like to hear the justification of the institutions that have actually done some work in this direction, for example. that there should also be a representative of the Institute of National Remembrance in the Committee of Culture. After all, this institute conducts exhumations, conducts various kinds of conversations, we know that it also has difficulties with the Ukrainian side. The Kukiz Club15 will certainly not be against this initiative, because, as I said, even before we established the Eastern Cross award, we took this initiative and made a resolution commemorating the Bishop. Chomyszyna, but it should simply change the method of proceding, because these doubts that we have, completely formal, are very serious doubts, because really, even if we adopt them at this meeting, we will adopt - and it will certainly be at this meeting - that this institution is being created, this road will not be closed, because there is still the Senate, there is still the President's signature, and at the same time we agree that 75 million institutions have already been given. We would ask that if there are such initiatives in the future, which are important for all, for all groups, take this matter seriously. Because if it is said that the project is already hanging - I quote Minister Lewandowski here - since October 26th and I am surprised that the Members of this committee do not know... The members of this committee knew very well that this project was, but they wanted a serious debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u48	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The modern does not support the project for the establishment of the Institute of Solidarity and Courage for several reasons. First of all, it is an amateur proposal for a way of proceding and implementing this law. No substantive consultations took place. We were surprised by the actually very fast process of this law, as well as many other laws that you are proceding, creating the State of PiS. Therefore, the noble intentions that Professor Gawin and Minister Gawin spoke about yesterday are of course important to us, and this cannot be forgotten, but the Institute of National Remembrance, I think, would be a good place to conduct this kind of research, simply extending its scope of activity. It's a simple thing. Mrs Katarasińska also pointed out the institutions that are here or could be addressed to such research. It's simple. We do not need to spend this PLN 75 million on another institution, which will be served by your officials, and we simply do not agree to that. All the more so because your unbelievability, which is expressed in questioning Polish democracy, is so dominating, that we here actually have reason to believe that you are creating further clusters, another institution, which is supposed to be instrumentally serving your historical policy. We don't agree on that either. I am interested in open Poland. I'm talking about this because you're still in World War II or in Martyrology, but it's time for us to look ahead so that we can look into the future so that we can see what this future can give us. If you continue to go back to the past, you will continue to preserve and consecrate the culture of the inferiority complex, which Stefan Chwin so precisely wrote about. I am interested in Poland Gombrowicz and Żeromski. I am not interested in Poland, which is constantly demanding compassion, thinking about heroism, thinking about the victims that you are giving us here. We're a proud nation, we're a proud country, we don't need the kind of shooting that you're proposing. There's one more important thing. That 75 million is a lot of money in spite of appearances. Uninvested Polish theatres and libraries would like to benefit from this money, especially those people who live in the province, in small towns, in villages, in small cities. There is indeed no cultural infrastructure. Therefore, it seems to me that when it comes to this initiative, which was presented so nicely yesterday by the Minister, it is worth considering this during a real debate, also trying to take a critical look at it, in short, at the real form of an institution that would work. There's one more important thing. Zbigniew Herbert wrote about the power of taste. In the case of the name of this institution, this is the power of kitsch and tacky. This is not how you can simply degrade Polish history. Because the word "solidarity" is today a holy word for us, today it is an important word, a word that has entered into what is our democratic possession. The centre of solidarity, which has been functioning and working perfectly in Gdansk for several years, has its name, which is, of course, suitable for the subject of research which it is engaged in and the subject of activity. The state, on the other hand, in a way, wants to own the word. Well, there's no permission to do that. The word "solidarity" is important, important for Polish democracy, and I would like you to be aware of it as well. Finally, I would like to say that you should not miss out on either bravery or courage or solidarity, so that neither this year nor next year nor in the next institute will be called until 2019. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u50	Please take the floor of Ms Urszula Pasławska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u51	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club is opposed to the establishment of the Institute of Solidarity and Courage. We see neither the sense nor the rationalness in creating another office to implement historical policy on the order of one political option, which is to receive 75 million PLN from the pocket of the Polish taxpayer. We agree that historical policy is important, it is important, but it cannot be more important than the present and the future. After all, we already have a special office for historical policy - the Institute of National Remembrance. This year its budget amounted to PLN 289 million, next year it will be much bigger, because it will reach almost PLN 400 million. In comparison, at the Polish Academy of Sciences the state will spend five times less - 82 million PLN. So why create another office in such a situation, really a duplicate IPN with solidarity in the background, for 75 million? The bill states that the Institute of Solidarity and Courage is to protect the memory of people deserved for Poland abroad. Thus, for many, many years Polish institutions financed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as by the Senate are engaged. This year 75 million have been allocated for this purpose, and next year there will be 25 million more. The promotion of Poland and Polishness abroad was also to be occupied by the Polish National Foundation and we know how it ended. There is therefore no guarantee that the Institute of Solidarity and Courage will not change its area of activity in the meantime and will not become e.g. a government version of the European Solidarity Centre promoting alternative knowledge of activities and people in the 1980s. We all know that there are priorities, important and more important things. We know that there are many underfunded areas in Poland. The most important of them, in my opinion, is health care. The protest, which will take place in the enlarged formula since January, will be paid mainly by Poles, because access to the doctor will become much more complicated and the queues will extend. We have often heard from the Prime Minister, from the Minister, that he has no money to meet the residents' requests. There's no money to increase the cost of health care. And today we are to vote on the creation of an IPN duplicate for PLN 75 million. Should this be the priorities of the Polish state in 2018? It seems that the authors of the project took seriously the quote from the 1984 Year Orwell: Who is in charge of the past, in this hand is the future, only that Orwell wrote it ironically, and it has been interpreted literally. In the context of the Institute of Solidarity and Courage, however, it is better to move away from literal interpretation, because a little further away Orwell wrote: The true domain of the Ministry of Peace is war, the Ministry of Truth - lies, the Ministry of Richness - hunger. To conclude, I confirm that the Polish People's Party will not support this law, is opposed to the creation of the Institute of Solidarity and Courage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u52	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Niesiołowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! About the European Union of Democrats is against this idea at first reading. He's no good for anything. For proceding maybe, but only to find the absurdity, the lying, and the vileness behind it. [[This is the second reading.]] These arguments were presented. It is something completely secondary to existing institutions, such as others. Of course - I would not mention the IPN, because he has already done so much damage that he does not deserve it - the Charter Centre, the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Jewish Institute, the Council for the Protection of Monuments of Walk and Martyrdom. These are all institutions that the PiS state ignores or cuts funds for, and suddenly, it spends 75 million on some institution. This is, High Izbo, as much as the total amount for the Polish Academy of Sciences. How much contempt must be given to science, people with a higher education, intelligence, so that something like this, this PiS creation, can be financed in such a dimension as the entire Polish Academy of Sciences. I understand there's a need for positions. Mr. Święczkowski's wife works, the daughter of Mr. Piotrowicza already has a job, Mr. Ziobra's wife has found a job, but apparently you still have a few scraps or some relatives you're looking for. [[Lovers.]] I understand that's what this is for. In general, I have to say, you're showing a lot of ingenuity here, but when it comes to hiring your own, you're world champions. By the way, you're still from Kukiza15, I don't know, this PiS-owska appetizer today has some anti-Ukrainian madness, some anti-Ukrainian hysteria. Already the third performance is characterized by some anti-Ukrainian rage. I don't know if these are your internal problems? What is it that this PiS-owska appetizer is doing today for incomprehensible reasons some anti-Ukrainian dance. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this bill, what can be added to what has already been said here. And you can add that there's some kind of advice that's designed, I guess, memory. This is very strange in Poland. Why do we need the Remembrance Council? The competences of this advice are vaguely defined, but generally, in fact, someone before me pointed out this, there is an Orwellian element in it. The Remembrance Council, as you know, the memory control was a specialty... This whole initiative is part of the PiS historical policy, and this PiS-owska historical policy is a rude forgery of history in two areas: it is a forgery of facts, but it is also the creation of such a narrative that actually only PiS remembers heroes, patriots, people who fought for Poland because no one else did it, PiS reminds us of anniversaries. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen, that's a lie. All these anniversaries which PiS celebrates, apart from those which silently were celebrated before PiS, some were celebrated even in the People's Poland, were celebrated by Bronisław Komorowski, Lech Wałęsa made flowers, Aleksander Kwasniewski, and then suddenly there is the impression that Poles who fought, who helped during the war... Most of these people are already dead, so it's a bit of a ghost ministry. You will hang these orders in churches, in chapels, because most of these people, who are mentioned there, who helped Poles in exile, sent to Siberia, for obvious reasons, are dead. So it's an institution for forging history. As PiS-owska historical policy still looks, we had a sample in the courtroom today. Mrs. Tomaszewska, this icon of Solidarity, this holiday of Solidarity, comes out here and talks about Emil Morgiewicz, that he spent four years in a communist prison. Everything's fine, just one thing she didn't say: that he was in prison with me, those four years were for organizing the Movement, and this organization didn't trade at all because it's associated with me. [[Applause]] So she replaced all the other ones, just not this one. Ladies and gentlemen, how miserable it is to take advantage of the death of a man, a well-deserved, distinguished, decent man, so that, by chance, you may not mention an organization that is associated with me. This is the whole PiS-owska villainy, but I, of course, not because of the PiS-wrong villainy and the fact that the Movement was not to be told, will vote against, and near the European Union of Democrats, just because this project is absolutely for nothing, except throwing it in the basket. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u54	Please, Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft act on the Institute of Solidarity and Courage, and in the future, as we have heard, the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. Besides taking care to convey the truth about the tragic events of past years, it is our duty to remember all those who have dedicated their lives and sometimes the lives of their entire family to Poland. We are committed to honoring the memory of all those who witnessed the truth about crimes on the Polish people, helping to come to the truth, exposing themselves to numerous repressions. I think we'll always have a debt of gratitude to all those who have come to live in difficult times. No one should question the validity of the establishment of the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. For many years nothing has been done to really ensure the preservation of the memory of our compatriots, who have given everything that is most precious - their own life - for Polishness. Only now, in my opinion, many years too late, thanks to the initiative of the group of Members will we pay tribute and show our gratitude to those who have suffered the greatest sacrifices for Poland. The Republic of Poland, we all need to cherish the memory of heroes from past years, especially those who are still between us today, but not forgetting all those who have already left us. The established Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude is to be a research facility. Its main task is to support and take actions aimed at commemorating and honoring people living, dead or murdered, who are deserved for the Polish people, not only in the country, but also outside its borders. There is no doubt that such an initiative should have taken place many years earlier. The safety of each country depends on relations with other nations. It should be built on truth, even the most painful truth. The Institute's activities can become the most important step that will lead to mutual understanding and reconciliation, I hope, between us and those nations that live at our borders. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u56	Thank you very much. Before I ask Mr Janusz Sanocki to speak, I would like to inform the High House that it has been colourful and joyful in our galleries, because our discussions are being listened to by young people from the folklore team "Wolanianka" from Wolanów near Radom. We welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Mr Sanocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u57	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I understand that the intention of the initiators, as I read it, is to establish such a Polish institute as Yad Vashem. And that, in my opinion, is a very good idea. As a child of Kresowian, I have my own personal history. My father and grandfather were rescued by a Ukrainian neighbor. There were more cases like this in the East. For many years we have really neglected to worship these people or to express our gratitude for what they have done. In my opinion, the main purpose of the Institute should be to fish out such persons and honor them in a material way, in a medal or in the title that you have spoken of here. There are certainly two aspects here that I would like to draw attention to, concerning a certain nomenclature that we are using and in the law, and then in action. Well, communism, I am speaking to Mrs Lichocka, whom I no longer see here, was certainly not Russian. Communism was universal: German, Jewish, Polish, all. Communism was a transnational phenomenon, not necessarily looking for nations to exterminate. It was only by chance that the Russian people survived the Hecatomba and suffered even more victims as a result of communism than we did, and let us remember that. Besides, how we use the concept of nationalism, we are talking about concrete nationalism, Ukrainian nationalism, because other nationalism, neither Slovak nor Czech, did not cost the lives of our compatriots. Therefore, let us use this. And finally, the financial aspect. Indeed, this is such an easy reason to criticize, although, as I said, the establishment of such an institute, I think, is very necessary. With the new institution, we should also draw attention to the issue of financing this institution. In fact, what I have to say here is that in discussing budgetary amendments, the budget law. I haven't seen any government action in two years, Prime Minister and Ministers, which would be aimed at saving money in the budget. I do not see any action to rationalise expenditure, to reduce unnecessary institutions, to release unnecessary officials. Unfortunately, this is the aspect that we also need to look at, because not everything happens in a voluntary way, everything needs money. On the other hand, as regards the substance itself and the need for such an institute, I believe that this is necessary and I will personally support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u58	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Is any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still interested in the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Elżbieta Zielińska. Question time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm going to repeat this question that I had already made during my statements. I ask you to dispel my doubts about funding, because here it turns out that this funding we did in the case of an institution that doesn't exist, which will definitely not exist anymore, because it will just be a different name. I would like to ask, as far as these doubts are concerned, that we are sending money to a specific institution, which we are calling later, whether it really is legal from a formal point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u60	Thank you. And Mrs Anna Wasilewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Due to the planned establishment of the Institute of Solidarity and Courage, a research centre dedicated to historical research and dissemination of knowledge about Poland's history, with a particular focus on the European and global context, a financial impact of 75 million was foreseen in 2017. This is information from the Ministry of Culture. Minister, my questions. Was the State budget charged for the maintenance of the Institute of Solidarity and Courage estimated and estimated in the following years? Would it not be appropriate to extend the competence of the Institute of National Remembrance to the tasks to be carried out by the Institute of Solidarity and Courage, in view of the fact that the Institute of National Remembrance has in its tasks - Chapter 6 of the Act on IPN - the implementation of research and educational functions? At the committee meeting, Minister Gawin spoke of a different law, but the justification was understandable and convincing. So maybe the Ministry, before deciding and voting on the establishment of this institute, will arrange the justification and information concerning the bill that has been presented to us? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u62	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask why a non-existent institute has already been awarded in this year's budget, through its amendment, PLN 75 million for functioning this year. You waste the money of Poles who want to treat themselves properly, you spend it on your own interests and the construction of the PiS empire. The revision of this year's budget refers to the transfer of this amount in connection with the planning of the establishment of a research centre dedicated to historical research and the dissemination of knowledge about Poland's history. I wanted to ask you why. Or to create a new history of Poland? Clearly, it all points to that. What exactly will millions of zlotys be dedicated to the Institute? I'd like you to mention the details. Who's gonna be working at this institute? Is this another entity like the Polish National Foundation? Will there be billboards and jobs for your people again? You only seek jobs for your own, that's the truth, unfortunately, and that's why you're creating it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u64	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Generally speaking, you are not giving us any chance to raise our hands and support this project. The institution is very important to me, but the mode and your haste are outrageous. If I may say that the Minister in the committee is convincing me, and she has really convinced me in her own, you can say emotional speech, justification - I hold the Minister for her word that you will invite us to the institution - the giving of the second candidate, Minister Paweł Lewandowski, is one big scandal. He is a completely incompetent, self-righteous minister, here I agree with Mrs Kukiz15. It didn't convince us at all. The Minister talks about one institution, Mr Lewandowski talks about another institution. If you are taking inspiration from Yad Vashem, and this is a very important institute, it is your duty to have very serious talks with the opposition and with many circles. You can't put things on your knees like you do. You guys get used to it because you're doing all right, but we're not gonna raise our hand to spend $75 million if we don't really know what the money's going for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u66	I would ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Wolf a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At first, I must refer to the scandalous words that Mr Niesiołowski said in his speech. I do not know whose appetizer is near the European Union of Democrats and I do not want to pursue it, but if he wanted to recall his colleague who died and mention him, he could have done so without discrimination and discrediting Mrs. Eve Tomaszewska's statements. It is good that she remembered this man, very well deserved for Poland. And it seems to me that Mr Niesiołowski has gone too far on this matter. As far as the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude itself is concerned, as it is to be called in the end, I think it is very appropriate to point out that both Mr Janusz Sanocki and his colleague from the Civic Platform have presented in the Chamber that we are really referring to the Yad Vashem Institute. This is a very wise and accurate solution. A long time ago we should have created an institute that could commemorate those Poles in these difficult times, and threatened to die for helping them, and to help them. And I think that if [[♪ The bell ♪]] You think your intentions are valuable and good, and you should support that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u68	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unique words, which justify the purpose of the Institute of Solidarity and Courage, speak of painful truth, about the need to tell it, about the tragic events of the past, about our duty to appreciate people who saved Poles, risking their health, and often life. We accept these descriptions as important, lofty, and dare not discuss with them. On the other hand, the institute itself is not only a unique description of the challenges that are still ahead of us, but also e.g. the ground-based costs of its operation - I am talking about the first 75 million. Our questions include: the organizational structure of the institute, because unfortunately we do not have such information. Nor do we know the answer to questions about whether the tasks of the Institute are not in line with the objectives of other functioning institutions already described, e.g. The Institute of National Remembrance or Center of Memory and Future, which operates in Lower Silesia and performs tasks related to respect for historical truth. Please tell us whether the tasks assigned to the Institute could not be combined, as it were, in the statutes of already functioning institutions. Wouldn't it be better to co-finance the activities of these existing institutes without creating a new, unknown and very expensive undertaking? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u70	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister said that she wanted to reward those who were brave, to whom we owe freedom, solidarity. Even in this current name of the institute, there is courage. Ladies and gentlemen, you've had your chance. You had the opportunity, because a year ago Professor Leszek Żukowski at the meeting of Warsaw insurgents with the president said: If no steps are taken in the near future, it may occur that heroes will die in oblivion, speaking figuratively, somewhere under the fence. And what did you do for a year? You adopted a bill in September that doesn't give you a dollar. Nor does the zloty give to free the insurgents of Warsaw, Polish heroes, from the fees in social services homes. Today, you are pulling 75 million out of the state budget to create another Polish national foundation. We know what the goals of the Polish National Foundation had and how they were achieved - on billboards about free courts, rather about courts which will not exist in such a way and in the form in which they exist. It is a great shame. The second shame is what you said, what Mrs Raven said: We want to thank those who helped Polish children in Iran or India. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you help Polish children? How are you helping those who need real help right now? Sendler said, "Everyone who drowns should be handed a hand." How many children who are dying in the Middle East at the moment did you shake hands? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u72	Please, Mrs Margaret Kidawa-Błońska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Those good words... As for what this institution is about, we all agree. You have to remember the good parts of our history, the heroes, the people who showed courage, thinking about others. But these are passwords. In this law, however, the institution you want to create looks completely different. This is some kind of superintendent who is going to carry out the tasks that he is currently carrying out in a number of institutions in our country, for which money from the state budget is being taught. I have the impression that this superinstitution, with a very large budget... If we look at how much money other institutions are getting to remember our history, how much money is given to the Polish Academy of Sciences, then these funds are huge. Are these tasks to be duplicated? Who's gonna be in charge? Will this institution supervise others? What's the flow of documents? Because there are other tasks related to the care of documents of the State Archives, they have their tasks there, or even archives that deal with matters once run, to which you will want to return. We're gonna need the D.A.'s approval here, and that's all I.P.N.'s got. I have a feeling there's a superinstitution going on. It is not yet clear what it is to do, and in turn it is to take responsibility from other institutions, this is what it looks like at the moment. With what the Minister said, we all agree, but that document we have, and that institution that's about to be created, doesn't look like it. So maybe you need to think about it and change the records, because I have the feeling that there's really such a hat to control this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what these institutions are doing. It looks really bad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u74	Mr Andrzej Kryj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There was so much hypocrisy in the statements of opposition politicians that if I wanted to expose her here, I'd need at least an hour, not two minutes, so I'll limit myself to one thing. You say that you can not establish a Institute of Memory and Fortitude, because the tasks of this Institute can take over, for example, the Institute of National Remembrance. Consequences! After all, you want to eliminate the memory institute, just like the Central Anti-corruption Bureau. So either you want to expand or you want to liquidate, you decide. Ladies and gentlemen! Essential question: Why are we calling such an institution so late, and why could it not be established a few or several years ago? Question two: Will this institution be involved in the broadly understood historical policy of the Polish state? Because this historical policy of the Polish state has not been pursued in the last many years either. I believe that, despite certain procedural shortcomings that may exist, the establishment of such an institution makes sense, it is necessary. I think it will serve the Polish state, the Polish nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u76	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The word "solidarity" is a key word for Polish identity, a key word for our latest history. We all agree that using this word should always unite, should be done with the utmost care, because it is about the national good of the highest quality and values. It is a Polish trademark - the word "solidarity." Now the state for head inflammation is proposing a law in which the word is used, and you propose it in such a way that this law will divide instead of merge. You are proposing an institution that will be included in the institutions of the PiS state, created by the PiS state, rather than those that are to build our national identity, actually appreciate people who have great merits for the Polish nation. Did you agree with the President of the Republic of Poland, in which it is the responsibility to award awards? What's the president's opinion and his firm's opinion? What is the opinion of the Minister of Culture? Because you're setting up a research institute. What is the opinion of the Minister of Science, Minister of Culture? What do they have to say about this? You should listen, you should discuss, you should create [[♪ The bell ♪]] a solution that will link and not divide. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u78	Mr Sylvester Khrushch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Because of my education and profession - I am an architect - I wanted to ask about the location of the institute. Today we are aware that this must be a worthy, suitable location, which adds to the splendor of this institution. We also heard during the debate that this is a building that will have archives and which will have warehouses. There must also be a place to welcome guests. So I have a question for you. Is the location known yet? If we don't, are we gonna make a building, or are we gonna build a new building? Because I'd like to say it's a procedure. at least one year after entering the construction site or starting a project or even renovating or revitalizing it. I'm asking you to answer that question. Thank you. [[The archives will take it from the ECS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u80	Thank you. Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear young people at the gallery! I listen to this discussion and I am terrified to hear these statements: one in favour, one against. As we know, the institute is being set up - maybe not as we wish, but I have a question for you. Will there be condemnation of flagship by Polish state institutions and bodies with the commemoration of the Ukrainians saving Poles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u82	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Good intentions of hell are paved. If this is to be a resort institute, a scientific research institute of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, please answer me a simple question: Why is it not a government project, a ministerial project? I will answer you earlier, because I do not know if you know this answer, just as you did not know what was to be in this bill: that is because then there would have to be a structure, a cost, any appointment calendar, because the government has certain obligations. And the future group of Members, using moral blackmail, is trying to persuade the Sejm to adopt a law that is nothing but another money-jump. I'm sorry. I said, you really don't have a sense of decency to use it that way. And it doesn't. It's not okay. [[It's not okay. It's not okay. All these years.]] One last question for the Minister. So far, none of the citizens of the world or their descendants saving Poles and helping them has been awarded or honored by the Polish Republic? Because I think they were. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u84	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. That is why I ask the floor of Minister Magdalena Gawin. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to answer a few literally the most important questions that have emerged here. I must say that my last statement, Mrs Katarasińska, has upset me because it shows that you can change your mind within 10 minutes. You called it a moneyjump. I might be able to explain the first point of the budget, because it seems to be the most controversial issue, and there were probably the most questions about it. If research institutes have a budget, it's not a one-year budget. We've already talked about this on the culture committee. This is a budget that can be set up for a few years. Member of the Commission, the budget of the National Library is about PLN 100 million per year. We are talking about an institution that will have a budget of several, a maximum of several million a year. So we're not talking about an institution that's gonna have the whole administrative structure blown up, the jobs. On the contrary. If she is in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, it will function as Pilecki's center works. It was a few people who worked on old equipment, borrowed furniture - and that was the most important thing for us, and we have results. And that institution that's gonna have to work. We met yesterday at the cultural committee meeting. I have explained to all Members the situation we are in, but I would like to make one point. As it happens, I am the person responsible for keeping archives and archival networks. Archives are currently an inefficient institution, because they have not been funded for many, many years, they have to take over the personal-paying files, they cannot acquire the archival resources. Yesterday I explained to you that Poland, as a country, was rid of a certain archival resource, which should be rebuilt very quickly. With today's technology, it's really possible. I would like to clarify one more thing, while we are talking about the Yad Vashem Institute. This institute, of course, was created to honor those who deserved to save the Jews, but it was also created to secure the State of Israel. These are the normal functions of everyone, I would say, as a strong country. We need to acquire a certain archival resource, we need to do it for a very simple reason. As I said yesterday, the declassified file of the United Nations War Crimes Commission, which was founded in 1942, concerns two nations: Jews and Poles. It's not gonna happen alone. We need to negotiate this agreement in New York. I'll tell you why. First of all, I would like to refer briefly to this name. Mr Mieszkowski said that this is a kitsch. I do not know if the name of the Institute of martyrs and heroes seems more or less kitsch, but it is the official name of Yad Vashem. We don't want to copy Yad Vashem, we're not talking about the righteous, we're not talking about the martyrs. This name, this amendment by Mrs Lichocka, is good to me, because it also translates better into English: 'Solidarity and valor' is'solidarity and virtue' and 'virtue' means courage, valor and virtue. To save people during World War II in an area occupied by the Germans, the State of Israel proposes its own name: Righteous Among the Nations. This is the name that originates from the political theology of the State of Israel. She's not joining us. We don't want to copy it. We recognize that these two words: solidarity and manhood, that is a good description, simply describe the attitude of people who saved Poles, Polish citizens. There's one thing I can't agree with, I mean. On a substantive level, I can't accept that this institution doesn't know what it's going to do, that it doesn't have a thoughtful... It's just not true. I mean, I understand the logic of the political struggle you're conducting here. I really understand her. I even understand that yesterday, Mrs Katarasińska - I saw in your eyes the understanding - she requested that the project be rejected immediately at first reading. This is the political fight. But I'm gonna say one thing: I can convince you. I can, because I know what's in there... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: And you convinced me.]] I know the situation in Poland. And if I am going abroad and negotiating with the Minister of Interior in Austria to kindly secure the camp in Gusen, I am not doing this as a member of the PiS party, I am acting on behalf of Poland. And we're gonna do the same. [[Applause]] [[But we're not protesting on this.]] I want to say one thing: I remember that when the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising was established, it was exactly the same. The Warsaw Uprising Museum and the Uprising are the property of all Poles. [[We agree.]] It was created on the initiative of President Kaczyński. It'll be the same institution. She is to serve Poland and Poles. And I will secure Poland. [[Applause]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: But this is not in the bill.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say one thing: I cordially invite all the members of the cultural committee to the Pilecki Centre. I want everyone to know what it's all about, and I want to explain exactly... [[Mr Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska: But it was known how this facility works.]] You do not know, Madam, I cordially invite you. Therefore, we can outline what needs we have and what we need money for. It can't be that Poland is always on its tail. It can't be like we're the last ones to get to the sources. It can't be that we don't have money for scholarships for foreign and Polish scientists. We hosted teachers from the UK who take care of the Holocaust. We're visiting Anglo-Saxon writers. They all want to write about Poland, but we have to give them something too. Poland is inbreeding. We talk a lot, but we only say it to each other and to each other. This can't be any longer. And now... [[Well, it's not. And the ECS? What are you saying?]] Wait a minute. I just wanted to say one more thing. It's not scary, because, as I say, I understand that the procedure is really fast. I will refer again to the Warsaw Uprising Museum. It also arose quickly. It was created within a year. Ladies and gentlemen! Because there are a lot of these questions and I partly understand your questions or the uncertainty at all, why, as is to work, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, which will supervise this institution, will be very pleased to present an action plan to you. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: And that should be done by now.]] No, because the action plan is working out as the institution is. We have this plan of action... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me. We already have this plan of action, but so that I can give the dates so that I can give the tasks... Because it's just that we have to schedule the entire schedule at the right time. It's not true that I don't know that we just don't have an action plan. It is not true that this institute is to be established to be filled with PiS structures. It's not true that we're going to be doing PiS history there. Only the weakness of Poland, which I see abroad, is already so terrible... This can't be right. Poland simply needs to be secured in terms of archives. We returned our archives from 1956 to - note - 1997. We don't even have a Reinefarth trial. We don't have anything. And who do you think will go free, copy, transport? That's just not how it works. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, because the final activity, as I understand it, is the institution of solidarity and valor. And this is a very good activity, but this activity must be preceded by research. This is what the Yad Vashem Institute does. This can't be done without archives, this can't be done without research. [[No money.]] And no money, unfortunately. I think it is also necessary for Polish scientists to create working conditions in which work for Poland will be rewarded and not punished. I'm talking about scientists who aren't involved in politics who have their authority. They should have safe and good working conditions. So far, for example. they actually offer such good working conditions... Our western neighbor is extremely effective. So why don't we offer them at least comparable, similar ones. But there's one more thing I want to say. You asked me if the Institute of Memory, what is the relationship between the Institute of National Remembrance and other institutions. I would like to repeat my arguments once again: institutions that take too much competence are very weak. They're just too big after a while. Please note that in 1998 the Institute of National Remembrance was established. It was an institute originally appointed to take over SB-UB archives and to describe communism in Poland. This institute did not deal essentially with World War II, i.e. he did, but at a very specific angle, e.g. He took over the paperwork of the Hitler crime investigation committee, because there was basically nothing to do with it, just with this whole team. So it's not like we're getting into the powers of the Institute of National Remembrance. I've already told you about the archive situation, really very difficult and very hard. There are some things the archives do anyway, but some things they won't do. Archives have so far had an unordered entire archive resource. I'd just like to remind you. archive that was collected in connection with forced laborers. This is the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation. This archive is still out of order - this is a few kilometers of file - because the archives do not have so much processing power. I can't throw them another job because they're already busy. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: You can add strength.]] So now it's about creating an institution that... In my opinion, Poles have a great debt of gratitude and I very much regret that we could not do this earlier, but not because of our fault - Poland was not a democratic country after 1944. On the other hand, she raised a very important point, i.e. the question of increasing nationalism in Ukraine and a certain interpretation of historical policy, which is unacceptable and unacceptable to us. Mrs. Member! I agree with that, only that branding people is, I would say, inefficient. We have to teach them. Education is a basic tool. We can convince them, create good educational programs for them. [[Don't close your eyes.]] And if we do now, for example. such tools that we can show the Volyn case not only in the context of crime, this chain of crime, suffering and cruelty, but also tell you that there were among you those who saved us, this is, believe me, a very effective tool. [[Hence our resolution... just don't close your eyes.]] The question of condemning flagship seems to be absolutely connected to all of us. I do not imagine that Members of this House should hold a separate opinion. It's just how we're supposed to deal with our eastern neighbor. I think that they should be tied more closely to Poland, I think that some educational programs should be applied to them, and I think that we need those individuals who saved us in Volyn, just reward us. [[I see.]] This is also the method Yad Vashem used. After all, the issue of the Holocaust over the years, until the 1960s, was not discussed at all and then promoted with very different tools. Let's do the same. I just wanted to say one more thing. I cordially invite you from this place... I will apply a special letter - yesterday I did not make it - to all the members of the cultural committee, but also to all of you if you want to see how much can be done for such a short time. I would like to show the centre, because I would like to say that neither trust nor the money that is intended - let us remember - for a few years of this institution's operation, I will certainly not waste. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws (Prints 1814 and 1883). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! I will briefly point out that this is a project that technically solves the problem of spending funds at the stage of the criminal investigation in situations where the investigation is conducted by an authority which is not subject to the State Treasury unit, and most often concerns a local government unit such as the municipal guard, such as city service, local and local government. At present, the rules do not allow the payment of advances under this procedure relating to expenditure on experts, witnesses, experts and undoubtedly there was a legal gap, namely that, even in these proceedings, the Treasury was ultimately obliged to spend funds on these advances, which also involved an extension of the procedure, because it most often remained entirely within the jurisdiction of the local government. Hence the proposal from the Ministry to settle this legal gap. The Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes after considering this project on 12 October 2017 requests the High Sejm to adopt the Act in the text of the draft annexed to the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u88	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Marek Ast, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the Chamber: He's in committee.]] He's not here. He's in committee. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Wolf.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform would like to present our position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws. The solution proposed is to fill a legal gap of some kind, namely that it is not possible to clearly identify an entity which, as the Treasury, should reimburse the costs incurred in the investigation of offences carried out by the municipal guard or the municipal guard. I will remind you that the guard is an organizational unit of the municipality which has its own legal personality and therefore its budget is separate from the State Treasury budget. The solutions contained in the government proposal confirmed in the Extraordinary Commission's report on changes in codification, as the original text and the text of the draft report are identical, it was assumed that the expenditure incurred in the investigation will be temporarily regulated by the Treasury or the local government unit and then settled according to the liability for the outcome of the procedure. Given that the proposed solution clarifies the current rules that exclude a certain kind of inaccuracy, we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u90	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will not put forward arguments, the project goes in the right direction, leads to the determination of costs in the course of the proceedings. But there is another important issue. In the case of local authorities, and especially those subject to them, e.g. The city guard will be more concerned about whether to initiate frivolous proceedings, because if they lose, the costs will be borne by the local government, the government budget. So it's a good thing it's going this way. But I wanted to point out another case. Well, Minister, High Izbo, I don't know if such a billing programme is meant to keep Members busy or to serve a good law. Because only at this meeting do we proceed with two amendments to the Code of Conduct for Offences, a third project is announced. So what I'm asking is, why do these constant individual changes? Wouldn't it be better to do what she thought would happen? amending the Code of Criminal Procedure - bring all these acts, also through a public hearing, so that they have their hands and legs and that we still do not go back to the same thing? After all, at this meeting we will also recognise the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament, which is from 2014, and we adopted the Code of Criminal Procedure in 2016. So the appeal is also to Members, if this is a parliamentary project, and to the Minister, if this is a ministerial project, so that these laws may somehow be systematic and lead them together, not each, in a single article, separately. And one more point, not related to the project, but to Mr Niesiołowski's statement today at the previous point. He asked to speak about the Kukiz15 movement as an appetizer of the PiS. Well, Mr Niesiołowski, the appetizer was you most of the time, and everyone thinks so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u92	Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u93	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the position of the club in the scope of the government draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws. The aim of the project is to address the problem of covering the costs of criminal proceedings in the course of investigations carried out by authorities under the authority of the local government, in general municipal and municipal guards. As I said at the first reading of the project, there is no doubt that there was a legal gap here. The current legal situation leads to an unacceptable situation in which the same citizen, depending on which investigative authority he will have to present himself as a witness, may be reimbursed once, otherwise not. Eliminating interpretation doubts about expenditure incurred in the course of investigations, such as the reimbursement of witness travel expenses or lost earnings, is very important in terms of the effectiveness of pending proceedings. Our doubts - and this was also in the codification committee - are raised by the article. 4 of this law, according to which the municipality applies to the court for a declaration of enforceability and obtains an enforceable title, i.e. immediately passes to enforcement proceedings, which is described in the Code of Civil Procedure. It should therefore be considered whether the proposed indirect element should be introduced into the proposed project, which will enable the municipality to apply for reimbursement in advance to the person responsible. It was also raised by the Legislative Office. However, despite these reservations, Members of the House and Modern Members will vote in favour of this government submission. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u94	Thank you very much, sir. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We move on to the next performance on behalf of the club. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made his statement on behalf of the Polish People's Party club in writing. So, Mr Ireneus will gain by Free and Solidarnia. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u95	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and certain other laws. In the draft submitted, the applicant sought to address the problem of covering the costs of criminal proceedings in the course of investigations carried out by an authority under the authority of a local authority. We are talking here, above all, about explanatory activities carried out by municipal guards or city guards. It's about getting the witness's due back. Those expenditure should be temporarily covered by the municipalities to which the municipal or municipal guards are subject as their organisational unit under Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 law on municipal guards. However, there is no legal basis for imposing such an obligation on municipalities under the present law. Similarly, it concerns the question of identifying the entity responsible for the reimbursement of costs incurred in the investigation of offences carried out by the municipal or municipal guards. Here, too, is a legal gap that the applicant rightly wants to remove. The proposed amendment to the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters therefore applies in principle only to Section XIII, i.e. costs of proceedings. However, this is a very important change because the responsible state authorities must ensure that the cost of civil, administrative, criminal proceedings or, as in this case, criminal proceedings is regulated in a precise and non-excessive way for the parties, including the Treasury. Several amendments of a substantive and editorial nature were adopted during the committee's work. Among other things, it is rightly pointed out that the proposed wording of the Article. 119 § 1 of the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters should be referred not to the convicted, but to the convicted, since such a term is used by the legislator in this law, as in the Code of Offences. It is also worth pointing out the point that one of the representatives of the Legislative Office present at the committee meeting pointed out. We're talking about art here. 4 the law implementing Article. 206 Law of the Criminal Code implementing § 4. It excludes the application of Article to local self-government units. 206 § 1 stating that the court invites the person liable to pay the court's costs within 30 days and, in the event of an unsuccessful expiry of the time limit, they shall be collected by execution. As a result of such a construction, the local government unit will not have a legal basis to call on a person who is obliged to pay costs on an amicable basis and will have to apply immediately for a declaration of enforceability under the enforcement title. The chairman of the committee, Mr Marek Ast, proposed that the question of considering the validity of the amendment in this regard should be resolved in the course of further work on the bill. In this respect, I believe that the amendment by which a self-government unit, before it starts the execution of judicial costs, will call on the person obliged to pay them voluntarily within a specified period, is, of course, justified and justified. Adoption of a proposal which, as a rule, obliges the local government unit to direct the case immediately to enforcement without the possibility of acting on an amicable path, will expose the obliged person, ready to settle the debt immediately, to bear additional, completely unnecessary costs associated with the execution of the bailiff. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle agrees in this respect with the position expressed by the representatives of the Legislative Office, with the approval of the representative of the Legislative Department of the Ministry of Justice, requesting that the wording of the following Article be amended accordingly. 206 § 4 of the Implementing Penal Code. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the proposed bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u96	Thank you very much. No eager Member has entered the list of Members asking questions. Therefore, Minister - I have heard that you want to speak - please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u97	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There were doubts raised in two areas regarding the project being examined, the changes being examined, which, as rightly emphasised here, are important because there cannot be a situation where a citizen is deprived of the right to return funds if he stands, for example. as a witness at the time of the investigation in these cases. It violates his constitutional law. This is, you can say, a minor but still a problem that shows that there is a legal gap here. But that is not what I wanted to talk about, but what Mr Jerzy Jachnik said first. He was talking about whether it would not be possible to proceed with all proposals for amendments to a single legislative act within a single project. As a rule, the Member is right. As a rule, it is because it is known that it may reduce our bureaucracy a little bit and reduce our time and resources, including taxpayers, but it is important to remember that in this case we have a slightly different situation, because we have two areas here, Mr. The project you were talking about, another entirely, concerns a material issue. It's about the forfeiture of the murder weapon, as I recall. In this case, however, it is a purely procedural matter. So this applies to two documents, two different legal acts and two different actors who brought these cases, which is to be remembered. on the one hand, that there is an initiative of the Senate and on the other, the initiative of the government as regards this document that we are currently discussing. It was therefore considered inappropriate to combine these cases. As a matter of principle, I agree with you, but in this case it seems that nothing is wrong to proceed separately. As I say, it is difficult to combine material matters with procedural and two different acts of law. But in principle, I agree with you. On the other hand, as regards the second point, Article. The 4th government project, there is no obstacle here - I am talking to people who signaled that everything that is in the article will have to be redeployed. 4 written down, and that at the end you will have to refer the case to the bailiff - because there is nothing to prevent it, there is no prohibition for the municipality to call for payment of the voluntary payment of the person concerned. There is no such obstacle to the solutions that we adopt here. The municipality or local government unit becomes a creditor in this case and nothing prevents it from leading to a situation in which enforcement proceedings will not be initiated. It can be done voluntarily. And these provisions that we propose do not prevent this under any circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u98	Thank you very much, Minister, for your speech. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Committee on Justice. changes in the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Offences, Prints Nos 1814 and 1883. The draft concerns the introduction of rules which clearly indicate the entity responsible for the reimbursement of costs incurred in the course of criminal investigations carried out by an authority under the authority of a local government unit. In the current state of law, there is no legal basis for imposing a temporary obligation on the municipality to pay expenditure incurred in the course of investigations carried out by the municipal or municipal guards. The project therefore provides for the following solutions: 1) expenditure incurred in the course of investigations carried out by an authority under the authority of a local government unit will be temporarily provided by the competent local authority unit and will then be settled, as has been the case so far, by the State Treasury, in accordance with the rules of liability for the outcome of proceedings; 2. expenditure to be provided by the State Treasury and the local government unit will be flat-rate - a lump sum would not include the claims of experts or institutions appointed for the opinion and the non-payment by the parties of aid granted ex officio by lawyers or legal advisers; 3. the Minister for Justice shall determine in the Regulation the amount of flat-rate expenditure in criminal proceedings in the course of investigations and in the course of judicial proceedings; 4. flat-rate expenditure and other charges to the Treasury or local government units shall be ordered from the sentenced person; 5. the costs of the proceedings will be borne by the Treasury or by the local government, respectively, in the event of the termination of proceedings or the acquittal of the blamed person. During the committee's work, amendments were made mainly editorial and legislative. In this situation, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill submitted in the draft.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws (prints 1814 and 1883). The aim of the project is to address the problem of covering the costs of criminal proceedings in the course of investigations carried out by an authority under the authority of a local government unit. Expenditure incurred in the course of investigations is to be regulated by the proposed regulation temporarily by the State Treasury or the local government unit, and subsequently settled by application to liability for the outcome of proceedings. The proposal introduces a rule that, if the investigation of offences is carried out by a municipal guard or a municipal guard, the reimbursement of expenditure will take place from the municipality's budget. If these activities are carried out by the police or other public service, the reimbursement of witness expenses will come from the state budget. The expenditure will return accordingly to the budget of the municipality or the Treasury after the court has completed its proceedings. They will be charged with a lump sum by a convicted felon. It was therefore assumed that the expenditure incurred by the State Treasury or local government unit would be flat-rate in order to settle the expenditure in the final decision - the flat-rate will not cover the costs of appointment of experts and the costs of unpaid legal assistance provided by lawyers or legal advisers. Until now, only the costs of legal proceedings have been borne by the convicted person. Only in the event of termination of proceedings or of acquittal of the accused will the costs of proceedings be borne by the State Treasury or by the local government unit. Thus, in the event of the withdrawal of proceedings or the acquittal of the accused, the costs of the proceedings will be borne by the State Treasury or by the local government unit. On the other hand, flat-rate expenses and other claims to the Treasury or to the local government unit will be ordered from the sentenced person. The amount of flat-rate expenditure in criminal proceedings in the course of investigations and in the course of judicial proceedings is to be determined by the Minister of Justice in the relevant regulation. High Izbo! On the basis of the current rules, it is difficult to clearly identify who is required to regulate the type of expenditure concerned: the Treasury or e.g. the municipal guard being an organisational unit of the municipality. The municipal (urban) guard is an organisational unit of the municipality, while the municipality has legal personality and therefore its budget is separate from the State Treasury budget. Currently, interpretation doubts cause that the witness's right, expert's right, interpreter's right, specialist's right to pay the fees granted to them for their involvement in criminal investigations carried out by the municipal guard is not exercised. The solution to this problem is necessary in order to ensure proper enforcement of the witness, expert, translator, specialist for the payment of the fees granted to them for their involvement in criminal investigations carried out by the municipal (urban) guard. The proposed regulation will eliminate the ambiguity of interpretation and ensure that witnesses receive the right remuneration also when a local authority is a party to the case. It seems appropriate for such institutions to participate in the costs of judicial proceedings in local self-government units. From now on, a clear division will be introduced: if the investigation is carried out by the police, the reimbursement of expenditure will be made from the state budget, and if the investigation is carried out by the municipal guard or city guard, the reimbursement of expenditure will be carried out from the municipal budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u101	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the law on the income of local government units (prints No. 1919 and 1924). Mrs Anna Maria Siakowska, I would like to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u102	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I am pleased to present a report on the draft parliamentary law amending the law on the income of local government units. The bill submitted in this project is commonly referred to as the Law on Shooting Ranges. But before I move on to discussing the bill and the work of the committee, let me break a bit of the convention and ask the High House, who of the ladies and gentlemen ever fired a gun. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There's a couple of people, all right. And in the last year, who's been at the shooting range? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] A few people.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u103	You can see that, gentlemen, because the ladies don't raise their hands. I didn't shoot either, Member. Rapporteur: Ms Siarkowska: Indeed, a few Members. [[Voice from the Chamber: In the internal affairs committee.]] As part of the internal affairs committee, great. This is a very good example that Members here set for citizens. But the example itself is not enough. Just as important as the example itself is to create conditions for citizens to be able to use shooting galleries. And those today's terms aren't good. The state should invest in security. Why? Because safety is a common good. On the other hand, the years 2007 and 2015 were the years in which the weakening of the defence capabilities of the Polish state took place all the time, it was continued. Why? Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have dealt with the miniaturization of the army, secondly, the restriction of the army to an operational component, with the elimination of the germs of territorial defence. The training of the Polish Armed Forces personnel reserves was stopped at that time, and the general training of the shooting was discontinued, which had previously been carried out in the framework of compulsory military service, and there was a degradation of the defensive training infrastructure. It's mostly about the shooting range. Currently only 53 garrison shooters, 33 pistol shooters are active in the Polish army. Over 60 shooting galleries have been closed in recent years. So that this infrastructure, even in the Armed Forces itself, is quite poor. This results, among other things. the fact that some units are forced to shoot more than 200 km, not to mention the civil infrastructure itself, which also does not represent itself impressively, because there are only 170 shooters throughout Poland. It's definitely not enough. What are the effects of this catastrophic state of affairs, this degradation of defence infrastructure? The result is the fall of shooting training, and Poles should be able to shoot and should be able to handle firearms. Why? Because it's crucial to our safety. This is crucial both from the point of view of national defence and from the point of view of the state. I am referring to the necessity of training during the peace of the Polish Armed Forces, training of personal reserves, training of pro-defense organizations, which should also participate in this process, but also training shooting officers of uniformed services outside the Armed Forces, and as we know, even if police officers today have a huge problem with access to shooting galleries. In turn, in times of crisis and war, shooting skills are necessary for the mobilisation of reserves. On the other hand, when it comes to civilian needs, also very important, people should be able to train themselves for the purposes of personal defense, so that they can effectively defend, if necessary, their family, their assets, but also so that they can practice shooting sports, i.e. recreational sports. Another group worth mentioning are hunters who also use shooting range and improve their shooting skills on these objects. Now that we're creating territorial defence, the need to develop infrastructure just for shooting purposes is all the more pressing. Why? That's because we're increasing the state of the Armed Forces at the same time. Today we're going to have an army that's going to be almost half as big as it is, because it's going to be about 100,000. Twelve thousand soldiers. from the NSR - we go to the state of 150,000. soldiers. We see that it is necessary to train these people in the field of shooting skills, and therefore it is necessary to develop training infrastructure. And it is this law that meets these needs. The first reading of the bill was held on 12 October. What are her assumptions? Firstly, local government units will be able to receive special grants for the financing of their own tasks related to the construction and renovation of shooting galleries, as well as the development of shooting sport, especially among groups such as children and young people, such as pro-defence organisations. This grant, which the local authorities will be able to obtain, will come from the funds of the Minister of National Defence, the Ministry of National Defence. These funds are today aggregated in the budget foreseen for the financing and modernisation of the Armed Forces. Currently, the Minister of National Defence cannot provide grants for the construction and repair of shooting galleries, and this law allows for this. It also provides that the Minister for National Defence will define in the Regulation the scope of the tasks covered by the State budget funding and the manner and modalities of granting grants for these tasks. The law creates an opportunity, I would like to make it clear, it creates an opportunity, but it doesn't force the local authorities to do anything, it doesn't oblige them to do anything. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Security matters should be dealt with without delay. What do you mean, right away? Without undue delay. The key to doing so is political will. If there is a political will, you should proceed. All the more surprising in this context is the attitude of Members of the Civic Platform who, a month ago, at a time when the committee's work on this law was being carried out, in protest against the too rapid process of the act, just left the committee's sitting, just left. They argued that it was too quickly processed. Let me comment on that. [[That's not true.]] Let me comment on that, 'cause... [[In violation of the rules of procedure.]] ...this law does not provide for any additional burden on citizens. [[You have to tell the truth. You have to be decent. It's not nice to lie to your face like that.]] Nor does he provide, Minister, for any obligation to local government. Like I said before, she creates opportunities. Today, I think you forgot that a few years ago, because in 2012, you were making changes, such as an increase in your pension contribution, at an express rate. It only took you five days to introduce a law called the Rostowski supplement today or even a legislative blitzkrieg. And this tribute - an increase in the pension contribution for entrepreneurs - took out about PLN 7 billion out of the citizens' pocket just like that. 5 days. [[The rapporteur should be honest.]] Therefore, today, when we are debating a month later about the law on the possibility of subsidising shooters from the budget of the Minister of National Defence, I think that this deadline is as appropriate as possible. [[But the report should be impartial.]] And the State should support all measures taken in this context to improve security. [[Your Marshal...]] Only those changes which require longer consultations, which create a burden on the taxpayer, should actually last longer. [[That's what happens when you don't know the law.]] [[And customs.]] The Act improves security understood locally. It's addressed to local governments. It doesn't burden local governments, but it gives them a chance to build and renovate facilities that ordinary people will be able to use locally. [[This is an agitation, not a committee report.]] Today, ordinary citizens have nowhere to shoot. [[Voice from the hall: Who will build these shooting ranges?]] What do you mean, who's gonna build? According to the letter of this law, local governments will build. [[It's a burden on self-government.]] It does not burden local governments because it gives them the opportunity to obtain grants for this purpose. If they want to build a range... [[In what area?]] If citizens turn to the local authorities that there is a need to build a shooting range, local authorities will not only be able to allocate their own money for this purpose, but also ask the Ministry of National Defence to subsidise such facilities. The introduction of the possibility for MON to subsidize the construction and renovation of monuments, which commemorate the tradition, glory and fame of the Polish weapon, is a side, although also valuable element of the procedated law. In the course of the work on the project, only the Legislative Office notified comments to the draft law at the joint meeting of the committee. These comments were of a strict technical nature and were partly taken into account. [[Luckily, there's protocol except for your speech.]] High Izbo! Joint Committees: National Defence and Territorial Government and Regional Policy recommend the adoption of a law... [[That's awful.]] ...called the Shooting Ranges Act in print no. 1924. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In my own sauce.]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please speak on behalf of the Club Law and Justice of Mr Tadeusz Dziuba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First, I congratulate the national defense minister, the government of Beata Szydło... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...for the proposal to amend the provisions of the Ministry of Defence to support grants of local government units which will undertake the construction or repair of shooting galleries, as well as those which intend to build or renovate monuments commemorating the tradition and glory of the Polish weapon. This initiative undoubtedly responds to the growing needs in Poland for many years to improve the defence skills of citizens and to commemorate patriotic acts and attitudes. Without exaggeration, it can be said that the government's initiative is due to a thorough recognition of the expectations and hopes of many circles of our homeland's citizens. Allow me to continue to focus on the need to rebuild or rather build small-scale infrastructure. To be credible, I will first appeal to the example of my hometown and its surroundings. In Poznań alone, there are now five more shooting galleries. Three of them will soon be eliminated, farthest from next year. There will be two shooting galleries, namely hunting and military, also used by the military section of the shooting sport. For those interested in shooting civilians, access to both these shooting sites is very limited. There are two other shooting ranges underneath Poznan. One military, rarely made available to outsiders, mostly officers under the banner of the National Defence League, as well as one municipal shooting range in the Podpoznan village, by the way, well maintained and well equipped. This is everything that is offered to those interested in almost a million Poznań agglomerations. In conclusion, soon only one shooting range will be available to the interested parties in this agglomeration. According to my diagnosis, this is a typical situation for most large cities in Poland. Smaller cities are in even worse position. The proposed legislation will provide a real impetus for building small-scale infrastructure. In comparison, I will give an example of the city - so far from my hometown - which is Frankfurt on the Oder. This city is more than eight times smaller than Poznań. Frankfurt has a shooting complex with multiple axes for shooting with pneumatic weapons, small-caliber weapons, black powder weapons, smooth-bore weapons, firing axes with guns and archery tracks. In addition, it has a shooting range with mobile targets for hunters and an electric training and training system. Such complexes should be at least in several, and preferably in dozens of Polish agglomerations. The measures offered by the Ministry of National Defence under the new rules will provide a real incentive for local authorities to create such complexes. It can be suggested here that they should be modularly designed. So that starting with a certain baseline, they can be gradually expanded in the future. An alternative, in particular attractive for smaller towns, could be versions of universal shooting range, e.g. with 8 and 10 axes designed to be interchangeable with short and long weapons and with 8 and 10 short axes for pneumatic weapons. In Poland he repents fear of shooting unknown in many other Western European countries and not only there. The construction of small infrastructure by Polish local governments thanks to the Ministry of National Defence funds gives the opportunity to effectively popularize shooting in our country, and thus to break the fear of Polish citizens from using firearms. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u106	Your marshal, your corrections. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is really something symbolic about this bill. On the one hand, we had Polish Orliks, on the other hand we have Polish shooters and monuments. We built highways and modern stadiums - we have a collapse in public investment. We had a Minister of Defense, and now we have Minister Macierewicz. First of all, you should ask, and I think this is a question that should be asked: Is there no more urgent need in Poland in 2017 than building shooters for 7 million PLN in each district? Because I will remind you that the project, if it is to be implemented in its entirety, will consume PLN 2.5 billion according to preliminary estimates. So I'm asking if all roads have been renovated. Has every parent found a place for their children in kindergarten and nursery? Are the doctor's lines gone? Each time, the answer is no, and yet you considered that there was a need to build shooting galleries in each district. And that's the first key: you've arbitraryly decided that there's a need. Up to PLN 2.5 billion at the shooting range on the one hand, for day care 450 million PLN on the other hand, 2.5 billions on the shooting range and 800 million on local roads, 2.5 billion on the shooting range, and no 130 million PLN was found for all starving resident doctors. You present a law on self-government, but in the legislative process itself, you forget to consult it before submitting a law. You talk about dialogue, but you don't establish dialogue. You're putting forward a project that's supposed to help local governments, and it can really get local governments into trouble because you're not guaranteeing a transfer of land or a donation, and you're saying that it might be better in the future. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to make it very clear on behalf of the Civic Platform: the shooting range is needed. It's built by this government, built by the previous government, and built by the next government. A large professional military shooting range was created in my town, in Sieradz, at 15. The Sergeant-in-Chief Service Unit. Military facilities are needed and should be built. But today I ask: Where is the map of needs? Who developed it? Why wasn't this map presented to the National Defence Commission? Why don't we know what a country-wide map of needs looks like? The lack of consultation, the lack of thoughtful ideas and a plan is only one side of the coin, because there is something equally and perhaps even more important next to it. That's where we get to the bottom of it. We have come out completely innovative - I must admit - Macierewicz's doctrine. It's completely innovative, because no country in the world has ever figured that out. Well, Minister Macierewicz proposes that we disarm the army, not buy him equipment, but arm civilians for billions of zlotys. For the first time in the history of the free world, civilians are supposed to defend the army, not the army of the civilians. It is therefore a really innovative thought, but I do not know whether it should be implemented in 2017 in Poland. I just think that this approach to the situation is absurd. Let me remind you that it is Minister Macierewicz who speaks to the army: just don't take too much risk. And in what context does he say that? Help the people of Pomerania. Minister Macierewicz hasn't decided a big bid in two years. Infinitely, there are tenders on helicopters for the thousands of drones you've been talking about. Also, no tender for combat helicopters has been issued all the time. What have we got? There is a 16-day training against the specnaz, there will be mass permits for weapons and shooting galleries in each district, because the minister decided not to spend money on the Polish army, only with the money of the Polish army implement his guerrilla visions. All your failed experiments, and you need to know that, are at the expense of the regular Armed Forces, which are the basis of the state's defense. Who does that? Mr Macierewicz not only wastes huge resources, but even transfers them to other resorts. PLN 0.5 billion for the Ministry of Home Affairs? No problem. If you can't spend money from your own budget and pass it on to others, and the other part you're squandering, then something, I'm sorry, but it's wrong. What these experiments arise from, we all saw after the storms in Pomerania. Your territorial defence, the territorial defence of Minister Macierewicz, in which billions of zlotys are invested, was indeed capable of defiling President Duda during the parade, but she was unable to help people in Pomerania after the storms, and I understand that it was one of her tasks. Shooting range should be built, but it should be done by the state, as the government is responsible for the security of Poles. We are making amendments today, and we depend on them to continue their work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your Marshal, if I may, one more sentence. Ladies and gentlemen! The Sejm granted the Ministry of National Defence a huge amount of money. The Minister has the money for the shooting range, so let the Minister of Defense build these shooting galleries, not use self-government, giving him further tasks. Today the Polish army is a hostage of your decisions, is a hostage of Minister Macierewicz, and consequently, all Poles are hostages of these decisions. To say of Minister Macierewicz that he is the worst minister of defense in history, is not to say anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u107	Thank you very much, even though it was a crazy big sentence, Mr Pierce, and it was only meant to be one thing. [[Extensive, but there was one thing, Your Marshal.]] Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, please, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Kukiz Club...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u109	Sorry to interrupt, sir, but I was asked to, and I have missed this and the students can leave the plenary room. I have information that students from the district of Szczytno, Wielbark, Pasym and Rozoga listen to the debate. I cordially greet you and wish you a pleasant stay in the Sejm and in Warsaw. [[Applause]] I ask the Member to continue his speech. We'll count the time, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u110	Thank you, Marshal. I say hello, too. This is my district. Greetings, Szczytno. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present my position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. This is all the more important to me because as head of the Parliamentary Committee on Local Government for 2 years I have been hearing about the fact that the government is not giving money. And for the first time in my life, the government wants to give money, and the politicians in the Sejm say no. There's something I don't understand. I understand that the Platform has learned for 8 years to disarm and dismantle Polish units in Warmia and Mazury. I can give you many examples here, and many of my mayors and mayors would like to thank you for stealing the units and thus bringing down the local authorities. Today it is rebuilt, thank God, because linear units at the border with Russia should be, so commands logic, and here there is no shadow of doubt. There's no doubt about it. That's how I looked around the room, I think we all had a defensive attitude. I, too, had such a defensive attitude, and I learned how to shoot at the shooting range. Somehow, no one was killed. At the same time, we studied culture. If it's over $24,000. We have municipalities just now, and still below the level, 1 000. These municipalities, I ask you, where are the young people, uniform schools, territorial defenses, police and other officers supposed to learn shooting and culture? Shooting range is a place to learn culture and it's worth remembering, not taking a tour. I understand that shooting range - yes, and Macierewicz - no. And I don't give a damn about Kukiz15. I care about personal trips between Mr Macierewicz and the Platform and vice versa. I'm interested in learning culture, also the culture of being at the shooting range and using weapons, so that we don't have dangerous cases. The day will be November 11th and I am pleased to invite you to the village of Jonkovo near Olsztyn for the municipal celebrations of the day of independence at the shooting range. There are more and more cases like this. And that's not a big problem because the municipalities want to be active. If they want, they have opportunities and there is a legal gateway to receiving grants: they may, but they don't have to, then I don't know why we have to complain. I've asked some of the guys who have these shooting ranges. They say, yes, at last. They're happy, and the state isn't. I don't understand any of this. Something's wrong here, ladies and gentlemen. Here's another thing. Shooting range, ladies and gentlemen, they're expanding. Here we have representatives from the district of Poznań, there is also a shooting range in Dzwetce. I took part in an open shooting competition, and, ladies and gentlemen, there really is no one dying, everyone studying there, and it works normally. There are more and more of these shooters and there should be more because there are more and more defensive classes, classes with a border guard profile, police, troops are getting more and more. Excuse me, where are these young people supposed to practice? On the street? No, this must be a professional place, prepared to be developed, also for territorial protection, because this is not the Minister's private army. These people wear Polish uniform and have eagles on their hats. Personally, as a Pole, I do not wish to call it a party army. I'm not from PiS, I'm Polish. I'd like to look at it with dignity and respect. It's worth thinking about it that way. The Kukiz15 supports and will support this initiative, the more that we are fighting today not for fanaberia, but for the possibility that from 1 January next year, according to law, without cheating and composing, the more that we have the jubilee year, the year of independence, to be able to support local governments with a grant - not with a duty, not with any ceremony, but with a grant - if the municipality feels that it has the possibility, the need and such measures. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not get enchanted, it certainly will not benefit more than 2,400 municipalities, it is not feasible, but in the case of any municipality that will do it in addition, it will be on the plus for Poland, not for the PiS party, for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u111	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present the position of our club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the law on the income of local government units. I will immediately remind you that this law is not about building military shooting galleries, as we could see in the case of the rapporteur's statement. The Minister of National Defence can build military shooting galleries according to the needs of the army where they are simply necessary. In fact, this law provides for the possibility for local authorities to carry out two tasks with a grant from the Minister of National Defence. The first task is to build and renovate shooting galleries and develop shooting sport. I would like to say right away that this is the job of the Minister of Sport and he should be the right minister to carry out this task. And the second task is to build and repair monuments commemorating the tradition, glory and fame of Polish weapons. This task belonged for years to the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom, and last year it became the competence of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the Institute of National Remembrance. So we have very clearly identified actors who are responsible for these two tasks. There is nothing to prevent these relevant government entities from carrying out their tasks. You want funds that are dedicated to upgrade the Armed Forces to other elements. On the one hand, you say we're raising our defence spending to 2.5%. GDP and, on the other hand, you carry out tasks that either have nothing to do with defence, or have little to do with it. Modern has nothing against the construction of shooting galleries or commemoration of Polish tradition, glory and fame. Moreover, as I said, we believe that this task should be carried out. The budget of both the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Sport should be increased, even today, when a point is being implemented in the form of a revision of the Budget Act for 2017 and the implementation of this task by the relevant actors. I would also like to say that we agree that the current number of shooting galleries is far too small, that the construction of shooting galleries is a much better task than that which is pushed by both Kukiz and Law and Justice, i.e. the task of liberalising access to weapons, de facto allowing every Pole to have weapons. It is clear to me that we should start by saying that there should be great facilities where under the protection of instructors we can simply develop these passions. But in order to accomplish these tasks, there is no need to make any changes to the bill. There is no reason for the Minister of National Defence to carry out this task through local authorities. You just have to prepare government programs, not parliamentary programs. If you look at the justification for this bill, it is simply dramatic. There are no assumptions, we cannot find out what budget is allocated for this task. That is not enough, I will tell you that in the explanatory memorandum it is written directly about the sources of funding that the project does not generate direct costs. Well, if it doesn't generate direct costs, then we're not gonna use any gold to build the shooters. It's just some paranoia, you can't write a show like that. There should be a correct assumption that we are spending, as the Minister says in the media, 2600 million in a year or in a few years, that we will be giving a grant of 100% or 50%. You have to say the size, the cost of building one shooting range. We learn from local government that this could amount to PLN 4.5 million for one shooting range. We want this data to be legitimized. The programme should be properly prepared, have its assumptions, period of implementation and should be organised. The willing will then agree. If you can't write this show on your own, I suggest you check it out. Similar programmes have been implemented in recent years. These mechanisms can be used to change only the facility which is the subject of financing. Therefore, we cannot accept such proposals. As a modern one, we also believe, as regards the amount of PLN 2600 million, which is said to have not been highlighted, that it is too much money, especially in the context of the lack of resources for health care, for the construction of roads, railways, for any support from the government in the case of air quality improvement measures. That is why I am requesting your marshal to reject this bill at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u113	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Urszula Pasławska, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We are discussing, as it turns out, a very controversial and ambiguous law. Probably if we were to talk about spending money on sport for a narrow society group, because we have so much money that we can locate it in many areas of sport and social life, we would probably all support it. If the applicant were Minister of Sport, she wouldn't have raised so much doubt either. The very idea of supporting local governments, that is, small local communities, is a very right idea. However, today's bill still raises a lot of doubts. The first doubt is the cost of building shooting galleries. This is estimated at PLN 2.6 billion. We can consider this when it comes to these investments, if we actually have a large budget surplus. However, information about this is contradictory. Even the state ministers issue contradictory communications on this issue. It is also worth considering whether shooting galleries in Poland are a priority, or whether it is better to allocate this money for another purpose, for example for the renovation of local roads, for which the government wants to allocate three times less funds in 2018, because 800 million PLN, or to increase the reserve of educational subsidies, which today amounts to 200 million PLN, which is far too low in the context of the implementation of the education deformity. The financing of the healthcare system is even more important. In the 2018 draft budget, we see an increase in defence expenditure compared to the current year, while in terms of health protection, it is more than 1% less. We have some doubts as to whether these are the right proportions. Secondly, shooting galleries are not objects that will be used by all residents of the municipalities, starting from children, through women, to seniors. In this context, widespread investment is more justified, e.g. swimming pools, sports halls, stadiums or already invoked road and rail infrastructure. If we're going to invest public money in local governments, then let's do it fairly, with the whole community in mind. Thirdly, the officials of the Ministry of National Defence officially admit in interviews that the shooting galleries are intended to serve the territorial defence forces and promote the popularization of the shooting sport. We know very well that the Territorial Defence Forces are a paramilitary organization, and in no way do they strengthen the defence potential of Poland. Even if someone learns how to shoot in a city, county, municipal shooting range, they won't be able to compete with a soldier who's professionally trained and armed. If you already spend money on an army, you spend on a professional army, mainly on combat equipment for the 21st century. Fourthly, the submitted project does not specify how the money is divided into shooters. The Ministry will allocate grants at its discretion. So maybe one county gets a few million, the other gets a few thousand or a few hundred thousand, and the third gets nothing. It's gonna matter... What's it gonna depend on? From local connections? Are they here, have you prepared any concrete, measurable criteria that can be addressed today? Fifthly, it's about the mentioned gun access law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating this and we are proceeding today with a law that can lead to the widespread use of weapons in Poland. And then this law, when it comes to the general construction of shooting galleries, will have a whole new meaning. As I said, the law is controversial and the Polish People's Party will express its position in the vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u116	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! At the initiative of the previous President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Bronisław Komorowski, a man dedicated to the security of Poland, a great friend of the Polish army, both in terms of its history and... [[The People's Army.]] ...contemporary state, fighting capacity and defence issue of our country, has been increased in previous years the amount of funding of the Polish Army to 2% GDP. They spoke in favour of, as I say, both the security requirements of our country, especially in an increasingly unstable situation beyond the eastern Polish borders, as well as the requirements of NATO membership. We had no doubt, Members, members of the European Union of Democrats, to vote for such a law, even with the difficult financial situation of the Republic of Poland, and these 2% GDP is allocated to finance the technical modernisation of the Polish army in order to make it more modern, more efficient, prepared for increasingly demanding combat conditions. When in September of this year, on 15 September, a law appeared in the Sejm increasing these expenditures first to 2,1% , and then even up to 2,5% , prepared by the current government, by Minister Macierewicz, we had doubts as to whether we were actually dealing with a real increase in financing expenditure of the Polish army or with another mystification and another cuglary from this government, which promises a lot and does little. As a result, half of our circle abstained from voting on this law, among others. due to the outrageous behaviour of Minister Macierewicz, for example in terms of delivery or execution of tenders for modern helicopters necessary for the smooth functioning of the Polish Army. And what did it turn out to be? Turns out we were right. A month later, the draft of Members of Law and Justice is coming to the Sejm, so that 2.5 billion PLN from the fund for the financing of modernization and modernization of the Polish army is allocated to the shooting galleries and monuments. Is this how the modernization of the Polish army is supposed to work? Is this how modern Polish troops are supposed to look? Minister, I had the opportunity to familiarize myself with, I would say, a shocking interview of one of the generals, already at rest today, General Drewniak, former head of air forces of the Republic of Poland, who said that underfunding, lack of implementation of the technical modernisation plan of the Polish army is a real threat to the safety of Poles. The shocking information that could be read from this conversation is that according to simulations carried out quite recently, Polish aviation is destroyed within 4 hours in a situation of serious armed conflict. [[We got this effect from the Platform's governments.]] This is not the result, as Mr Macierewicz says, of the negligence of previous governments, that is the result of the inability, inability, harmful policy of Minister Macierewicz, who, among other things, is. he has already tendered for the delivery of modern multitasking helicopters for the Polish army... [[They disassembled the Polish army, unfortunately.]] ...and which money, the next amount, first close to PLN 4 billion, spends on the purchase of VIP aircraft. Is this a modern army? VIP transport? And now it's going to be 2.5 billion dollars for the construction of shooting galleries and the restoration of monuments. About the European Union of Democrats has nothing against the construction of shooting galleries, but you should build these shooting galleries without robbing the Polish army of funds that are intended for its modernisation. Instead of 800 million grants for the Polish Television Jack Kurski, you could use this amount as part of the 2017 budget amendment to finance local governments who want to build shooters and repair monuments. We are not only dealing with the mystification, we are dealing with stealing from the Polish army, so near the European Union, the Democrats are applying to reject this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] at second reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u117	Thank you, sir. As the last on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels, Mr Ireneus Gains. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the subject of the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the income of local government units. The proposals contained in the draft law aimed at supporting local self-government units from the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, particularly in the area of modernisation and construction and renovation of various types of shooting galleries, which are in the areas of individual municipalities and powiats, meet the expectations of the growing and already numerous enthusiasts of shooting sports and pro-defence organizations. The technical condition of many shooting galleries in Poland is catastrophic, and the real needs of using these devices repeatedly exceed the current possibilities. The lack of shooting range significantly inhibits the development of shooting sports and weapons science. Building a shooting range is a significant expense. The result is that we have very little shooting range in Poland. Many old shooters, especially hunters, built by hunting wheels with their own funds, were closed because they could not meet the new strict technical and safety requirements. The result is that even the appropriate service equipped with firearms and having an obligation to systematically train itself in its use often has a problem finding shooters where they can improve their skills. In recent years, around 60 military shooters have been liquidated under the coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party in Poland. There are only 52 garrison shooters left. As a result, soldiers must reach the nearest range even 200 km. No wonder, then, that most likely the military, including the Territorial Defence Army, will be one of the beneficiaries of the concept: one county - one shooting range. [[Then let the army build the shooting range.]] We must also remember that if we want to speak seriously about national self-defense forces in any form, our strategic objective should be to teach as many citizens as possible the efficient use of firearms. The best way to do that is to spread the shooting, and not by increasing the number of trainers, because it will come with time itself. Rather, it is about spreading shooting as a way of recreation, e.g. on the weekend, on your free time. We're talking about building pitches so the kids have a place to play soccer. And why can't we talk about building shooters... [[They're already built.]] ...so people can perfect themselves in a shotgun? Not necessarily with his own gun, it could be a club gun. Shooting is an Olympic sport. [[It's from the MON budget, not the government budget. That's the key.]] In comparison, you can take a look at what the issue looks like in our neighbours from behind the Oder. Small villages, and almost everyone has a shooting range. Even housing estates have their own neighborhood shooters. It turns out that recreational shooting is very popular there, it is a sport for everyone. There's no reason this shouldn't be the case with us. In our view, the entry into force of the law in the long term will significantly contribute to the improvement of our country's defence capabilities. In addition, the bill assumes that the Ministry of National Defence will be able to support local government units in the construction of monuments commemorating the glory and tradition of Polish weapons and the care of existing monuments. We hope that thanks to the proposed changes throughout Poland on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, in line with the announcements of the Minister of National Defence of Mr Antoni Macierewicz, 100 commemorative speakers commemorating the heroes of Polish independence and those who fought for it in the last century can be created. Importantly, the draft law does not contain provisions obliging local government units to undertake the tasks set out therein, but gives such opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! There were many words spoken today on this speaker about what the predecessors had done. I think it's time to act. Perhaps there are some imperfections that the predecessors have talked about, but doing nothing and continuing to talk about the lack of shooting range will lead us nowhere. We will continue to have shooting galleries in catastrophic condition, and especially the young generation, which should enter into adult life, knowing what weapons are used for, knowing how to deal with them, and knowing a culture of weapons use, responsibility for weapons, will still not have that knowledge. So that the initiative is of the utmost support. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Free and Solidarni Circle will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u119	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list in order to ask a question? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. And, please, we begin with Mr Mieczysław Mizga, the Law and Justice Club. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome. [[One and a half minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u120	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project under investigation envisages the introduction of provisions giving the Ministry of National Defence the opportunity to support grants of local self-government units, which will take action to build or renovate shooting galleries and develop shooting sport, so I would like to ask questions in this respect. Are the consequences of long-term negligence as a result of the cessation of shooting training in Poland, especially in the field of irreversible often damaged infrastructure necessary for carrying out shooting training? What order of magnitude should be involved in this under grants to local self-government units in order to rebuild and refurbished shooting galleries which, due to the long-standing negligence in this matter, do not meet the requirements so that the optimal number of people are trained in shooting and thus increase the capacity of trained people in the defence system of the State? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u121	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Wilk, Club Law and Justice. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a longtime self-government officer, I have no doubt that this solution is good, this grant. That's what it's all about. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I didn't bother you, Mr. Tomczyk. It's a sign of your culture. I have no doubt that this is not about the Ministry of National Defence building these shooting galleries for themselves, but about the possibility of using the resources of the Ministry of National Defence in order to obtain grants for the construction by local governments of such shooting sites in their premises. For a long time in schools in Poland, in secondary schools, there are uniform classes. There's a fashion for these schools, but it's really about this fashion that parents see the future in the fact that these kids are gonna tie up with the uniform and they're gonna keep going. [[♪ The bell ♪]] his activities later as adults. That's why it's not a compulsion, it's an opportunity that some local governments will benefit from, others won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u123	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u124	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The territorial defense forces have nowhere to learn to shoot. The territorial defense forces have nothing to shoot at. The territorial defense forces have nothing to shoot at. The Minister probably took to heart the relation of one of the adepts, one of the volunteers to the Territorial Defence Army, who, I quote, referred to: we practiced contact, attack, masking, what to do, how to attack you. We just didn't have any ammo, so we made noises of gunshots, we screamed, and here comes the uncensored words, so I'm gonna use the other ones - pif-paf, pif-paf. For example, contact - front. You had to hit the ground, aim and scream as loudly as possible: pif-paf, pif-paf. Okay, now the Minister is funding his military shooting range. Just let him build it himself. He received huge plenipotentiaries from the government, a huge budget, 40 billion zlotys, to build shooting galleries, not spend them on [[♪ The bell ♪]] their construction by local governments. This is paranoid. It is the Minister of National Defense who should build shooting galleries for soldiers. [[For myself, not for local governments.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u125	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u126	Cuius regio, eius religion, is such a Roman maxim that says: whose authority, this religion. We wanted the kids to be able to shoot goals, you want them to be able to shoot guns, and that's effective, because this bill is specifically addressed to children and young people. That's how it's written. Even if you accept this logic, let it be done with your head. So it is asked for a government program, because the task: sport is the task of its own local government in fact, and the task: defence is not its own task. Here you introduce this task into the local government. It's a contradiction, it's a novel. You don't even ask the local authorities what they think. And now, let it be done with your head, so you have to ask for archery, because in open objects you can do it, it's also a sport, and you have to ask for the cost of keeping shooting galleries, because they will be large objects, at least 50 meters worth millions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which will cost hundreds of thousands of zlotys to keep, because that's where you need an employee, where you need a weapons warehouse, where you need protection. This needs to be kept warm, cleaned up, lit up. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The construction of shooting galleries is one thing, and the use of shooting galleries is another. Grants are to be directed, inter alia. to develop shooting sport among children, youth and pro-defence organisations. I don't know what's under the rules so formulated, there's no regulations, we don't know how they're gonna settle it, what the Minister of Sport says. Mrs... Oh, the rapporteur has already disappeared to me... [[Voice from the room: There it is. There it is.]] Is it? Uh-huh. Mr President, shooting is a really deadly serious matter. Weapons in inappropriate hands and learning to shoot without proper professional supervision in the form of qualified, responsible instructors can really end tragically. So how do you intend to ensure this security? Will there be any money for that? I'm also asking as the mother of a child who trained a modern five-biter, and she knows a thing or two about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] By the way, I wanted to ask how many pro-defence organizations are currently in Poland and how they are supervised. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Nemś does not exist. In that case, Mrs... Oh, there it is. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that it is possible to support local government units with grants from the state budget for the construction, repair of shooting galleries and the development of shooting sport is not particularly dangerous in itself, but in conjunction with the highly controversial activities of Minister Macierewicz, which all my predecessors have already mentioned here, is questionable. I absolutely do not agree to such a statement that the shooting range equals security and culture. Absolutely not such a message. I would like to remind you, Madam rapporteur, especially that there is also a part of the society that claims that merely dealing with arms and all the incentives associated with it give rise to aggressive associations. You can read about the effect of the weapon. Ladies and gentlemen, in a situation where the quilt is small, we do not have enough money for everything, I would like to ask if it is well, best spent money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u131	Thank you very much, Member. And Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. Member, please approach the speaker. We'll have time to talk later.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I wanted to draw attention to the words of Mr Maciejewski, who said that the Civic Platform is against the construction of shooting galleries. That's not true. He should listen to what the rapporteur says. The Civic Platform is behind the construction of the shooting range, but with the funds of Minister Macierewicz. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And that's what... That's just what I said. And please don't mislead the public. [[You're wrong.]] But don't disturb me. Your marshal, you're just gonna explode in this seat because that's how you act. [[Voice from the room: Today is extremely calm.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u133	Madam, please proceed to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u134	Why is it such a rush to process this change in the bill? Maybe you can answer why you're in such a hurry. Why is the Sejm's rules not being followed? How can that be a law? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Under the rule of the PiS That's standard. But I am very surprised that Mr Maciejewski supports these bad practices as an appetizer of the PiS. The Minister of National Defence can grant grants from the state budget, so I wanted to ask what the rules for granting grants to local government units will be. What must be the own contribution of the local government unit?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u135	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u136	What will be the cost of building shooting galleries? Will local governments receive subsidies from the state budget for the maintenance of shooting galleries? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Very funny. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u137	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform. There is no Member this time. Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are currently about 38 million citizens in Poland, while there are only 170 professional shooting galleries, i.e. 223 thousand for one shooting range. persons. This is one of the worst indicators in Europe in terms of access to such facilities. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important that those who want to raise their shooting skills do not do it somewhere in the woods or in hiding, but in a legal, legal and safe way, in professional facilities. That's why, Minister, I have questions. How long after the proposed bill has been introduced, will new, safe shooters be created? Will access be significantly improved? What funding for newly built shooters is provided by the Ministry for Local Government? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u139	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law that we are investigating today is an important element supporting willing local governments in the renovation or construction of shooters, which are less and less in the country, many speakers have noticed. It should be noted that the above law does not force local authorities, but gives the opportunity to apply for funding for construction or repair of shooting galleries. And as you know, needs are big. Not only civilian, but also uniformed services or hunters we talked about, or sports shooting, especially uniformed classes, uniformed schools. Recently, I have been approached by representatives of sports shooting environments, uniform classes and hunters with a question - this is a question I am giving to the Minister - whether these environments will also be able to use these new shooting galleries, under which rules, who will manage these shooters. There was such a suggestion as to whether the ministries of sport and the environment could be involved in these activities in order to do so together. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, the construction and renovation of the shooting range is a good idea. I was asked to give you such words from uniformed classes, which often have to go several dozen kilometers to participate in shooting lessons. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u141	Thank you very much. I am about to give the floor to Mr Caesar Grabarczyk, but I was asked to welcome the students of the Second General High School. Olkus' land in Olkus. I don't know if you're on the right or on the left, but welcome. [[Applause]] But also the other group, because I see that on the other hand there are also young people, and I wish you a successful visit to the Sejm, positive impressions from this place. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Nothing about self-government without self-government. This must sound because local governments have not been given a chance to express their own opinion about this project. It is important to draw the attention of the rapporteur of the committee, because Mrs Siarkowska acted as an agitator, not as a rapporteur. [[Applause]] The Rules of Procedure clearly state that the rapporteur in his report cannot put forward any proposals other than those set out in the committee's report, and that there was room to demonstrate the reservations which the Members of the Civic Platform put in the procedure. And it must be said that the Minister of National Defence has in his tasks and competence to secure the conditions for shooting exercises, but this task cannot be transferred to local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's move on, Minister. Are we going to build a military field in every county? Are we going to build airports for those mythical drones you want to buy? Let's put an end to this madness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I really have to say this with fear, but you are doing a lot to destroy the Polish army and deprive Poland of the claws we could defend ourselves with. Minister, you're assigning incompetents to military commanders. Airborne brigade commander can't jump with a parachute. These are psychic decisions. You're transferring new equipment to de facto civilian units because that's what you have to call territorial defense. Military units - the real army - use old equipment. These are actions that lead to the fact that the military is actually collapsing. There won't be an army in a minute. Minister, I have two questions. Is it true that these expenditures on monuments will be included in the 2% limit that the State should allocate to defence, and will you [[♪ The bell ♪]] This information also tell our allies that you build monuments as part of your defence spending? And the second thing: Why aren't these shooters financed by the Ministry of Sports and Tourism and the monuments financed by the Ministry of Culture? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u145	Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This parliamentary bill is a special example of how you should not prepare and conduct public affairs, how you cannot perform public tasks properly, because it is a project without a head. Members decided to launch a programme dedicated to local government, but did not check whether local government was interested in implementing such activities at all. But there is a worse thing about this project, except for the fact that there is no schedule here, there are no calculations that this project is really just a thought related to emotions, not common sense, not engineering, but engineering projects will be implemented. Here is a worse thought, namely that responsibility is removed from who should perform the tasks of the state. The responsibility of the Minister of Defence is to train troops, he is to create tools for this training. If there are no shooting galleries in Poland, it is necessary to build enough for the military to have a proper training process, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For pro-defense organizations to be trained. Minister Macierewicz should get to work, not through parliamentary projects triggering emotions in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u147	Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice, please, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The last years of government of the previous coalition of PO and PSL were the gradual degradation of defence capabilities of Poland and the ability of Poles to use weapons. There is no training system in this area. The parliamentary initiative to improve the situation on this issue therefore seems very necessary. The number of shooting galleries operating in Poland is very small, which limits the possibility of practicing shooting sports more interested persons or holding trainings in the framework of pro-defence organizations. This situation urgently needs to be changed, especially in the context of the abandonment of general training for shooting in the framework of universal military service. The development of the infrastructure necessary to carry out the shooting is part of the Ministry of National Defence's wide dissemination of knowledge and skills in the safe and effective use of firearms. Local government units count every zloty, they can't afford to build or repair shooting galleries. The possibility for the MON to make use of this objective can definitely change this situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will this encourage local government units to take a greater initiative in this area? And to Mr Suski: These shooting ranges are mainly intended to serve ordinary so-called. citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Why were there quotes here?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u149	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u150	Marshal, why don't I wait for the Minister to... I'd like to make sure the Minister can hear me. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: I can hear you perfectly.]] I'm glad. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This is obsessive. Really, there's not everything I'm saying right now, there's politics, there's just serious concern about what we're doing. We've done it. We've done it. We've done it. Because it was a package: we'll give everyone a gun, then we'll give the shooting range to get him to understand what's going on, we'll equip the Poles with 1.5 million guns - that was the idea in this bill, 1.5 Millions of Poles with guns - and we will give them gun range. Ladies and gentlemen! Modern armies, modern wars don't require societies to be able to shoot. I don't know, let's invest in some protection so there's somewhere to hide in case there's a conflict. After all, we, by shooting young boys, will not solve the conflict, at best increase the number of victims. And the needs we really have in many areas... You can take care of public money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Really, you have to take care of public money, not spend on... They're gonna be standing around these shooting galleries for the next 30 years when you create them, and no one's gonna use them. [[Applause]] [[Oh, my God.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u151	Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: I hope that Mr...]] [[Of course, Minister.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: Thank you.]] Minister... Mr Cezary Tomczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister was nodding when we said... He denied that it wasn't meant to be that civilians were supposed to defend the army from now on. It must be made clear - you often mention 8 years - it must be emphasized that for these 8 years the last 2 years are the worst years, the last 2 years when you manage the Polish army. I'm asking today, if that's not true, how many multitasking helicopters did you buy, how many combat helicopters did you buy, how many of those thousands of drones? Here every time the answer is zero, as in the case of the Minister of National Defence. You have taken the tactics that Mr Nitras was talking about: weapons for everyone and shooting range for everyone, but the truth is that you simply want to arm civilians at the expense of the Polish army. All these experiments, which are conducted on the tissue of the Polish army, take place at the expense of a regular army, which is supposed to defend us just when a catastrophe occurs. And you, as Deputy Minister of National Defence, must know that very well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u153	Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We can keep up to date with information about the great problems of modernization of the Polish Armed Forces. Choppers, Vistula programs, Narew, cybersecurity, Navy equipment - it's all lying down. You're still looking for a replacement. Undoubtedly, the project that was presented today is just such a replacement project - a project that shows that you cannot spend money, you cannot invest in the security of Poland, the equipment of the Polish Armed Forces, but you are looking for an alternative to settle the budget. But now that you're on it, I'd like to ask the Minister why it's not a government project. After all, we can find out that the Minister has been working on this program for months. Why didn't you introduce this project into the Sejm as a government project? You didn't present the assumptions of this program. You wouldn't show it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who will later maintain these objects in the form of shooters? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u155	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poles, listening to this debate, may feel that here we are preparing the nation for the world Olympics in the shooting range. [[There's no Olympics in the shotgun.]] [[It will be.]] But she'll be national, sir, that's what we can expect. Let's not create such psychosis and scare Poles. As a representative of Radom land, I am very happy - let the shooting range be on every corner. [[Is that what you want or not?]] The weapons factory will have an overlay until the end of the world. But as a recently-functioning local governmentman, I'm worried that we don't look at the needs of counties: hospitals that need to be maintained and which are getting worse and worse, vocational education, which is subject to the districts, because we no longer have vocational schools, there will be no one to teach the competition, and we are worried about the shooting range. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the job of the Minister. And I would like to ask, will the Minister give money to build and then keep these shooting galleries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u157	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u158	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! From this point on, I would like to thank you for this bill. Thank you for it on behalf of the inhabitants of the Jedlinsk municipality... [[They're waiting for the shooting range.]] Allow me to finish, sir. I never interrupt anyone. [[Of course, I'm just impressed with the locals.]] ...and your Uncle Kamil the Virgin. I'm saying this because it's on Radom soil that there's one shooting range in this community that needs modernization. This shooting range is very popular among residents, there are various kinds of competitions... [[Shooting.]] You really can't keep your mouth shut for a second? Let me... [[I can't shoot either, ma'am.]] You're just being rude.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u159	Mr Nitras, you do not like to be disturbed, so do not disturb and let the honourable Member speak. [[Your Marshal, but pay attention to me when I speak, not when I do not speak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u160	Therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, I have a question for you. These funds will be in the form of grants, the local government will be able to obtain them. Will this self-government be able to sign e.g. Any cooperation agreement with the organizations? Because there are organizations in Poland that run such shooters. Will it be possible, or will these funds be dedicated only to local governments and only they will be able to spend them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We could say that it's so typically yours, so Platformer-like, so modern, you could say unwise, illogical, inconsistent. Ladies and gentlemen, we are either playing defense seriously, or we are taking it as Mr Nitras has said, that we should put these measures on something so that we can hide somewhere. Where do you want to hide? To a mouse hole? Sir, think about what you're saying. We are talking about the safety of Poles, and you want to spend money on hiding somewhere. [[You have to hide behind your governments.]] I am not surprised at the statements of various Members who speak, as I have said, illogically, but you were once Minister, Deputy Minister of National Defence. [[And you never will be.]] [[He was someone you'd never be.]] And you don't understand what it's like for Poles to have access to weapons and to be able to use these weapons not to do something wrong with them, but to learn to get used to defend their own homeland. She sums you up great. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your messenger Mrs Navel: this is just ridiculous. Pif-paf, sir. That's how you've been acting so far. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u163	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. [[I just lost my speech.]] [[You're even out of your mind.]] Mr President, I do not want to apply the rules of procedure, but that was rude. [[We're used to it, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question - because I will no longer repeat many questions, I hope that the Minister will answer them - how much specifically in Opole is planned... is there any upper limit, are there any places, or is it on such a principle that who will point out who is first, the better. Important question: Will only local governments themselves be able to apply for the location of such a shooting range, or will they also be able to do so with so-called entities. Third sector, which is non-governmental? I also wanted to join Mr Ruszczyk's appeal, which was just here saying that we should, in fact, have you... I'm wondering. You're from the P.O., and I think you've appealed to your colleagues: don't go into fear psychosis. The fact that there's gonna be gunfire... [[It means everyone's gonna have a gun.]] ...that the nation will be able to handle weapons, that's just fine. Certainly better, Mr Nitras, that Poland should be protected by a professional army than by a security company, as it has been for the last few years. [[Applause]] [[But that's the way it is all the time. Do you know that?]] This is pathology. Mr President, this is a pathology for military units to be protected by security companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This can't be right. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And there will be no shooting galleries in Opole because that's where the Germans live.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u165	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice - another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For decades we have heard that there is a need for a profound change in our army. I don't think anybody's discussing it. But also for several dozen years these types of objects have been destroyed in Poland. I have this very simple question because we have heard about 8 years, in total from Members of the Civic Platform: How many such objects have been built for 8 years of the Civic Platform's rule? [[How many Orliks have been built, please ask.]] I'll probably get back to that in a second. [[Speech outside the microphone]] Member, allow me to finish. Mr President, it would also be nice if you could listen. What's important is this number. I'd like to know that number. How much government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party has built this type of facility? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Congratulations on Radom Airport.]] [[Airport in every municipality.]] Yes, Mr. Nitras, yes. Great. I'm glad you agree. Once again, Minister, I ask for a brief, concise answer. [[That's a great idea.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u167	In writing, Mrs Beata Małecka put the question... [[Don't start with us because we have a sense of humor.]] [[Nitras, come on.]] Allow me, sir, to finish. In writing, Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera put the question. This question will be referred to the Minister. She will expect an answer in the same form. Now, please respond to the speeches and questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence of Minister Michał Dworczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo... [[I'm here.]] Thank you very much for waiting. I think you can be a role model for a lot of colleagues who, unfortunately, I regret to say, have left. [[They'll come back, they'll come back.]] This is another situation, gentlemen or state, that you're pressing charges, and then you're not even waiting for answers. [[I'm here with you, Minister.]] Let us try to be serious and respectful. I think it'll be easier for us to talk then. [[And do you see that there are more members of the opposition than coalitions?]] If you don't mind, I'll try to answer some of the questions you've been putting together. I have tried to write them all down, and if I do not answer any, then of course I will be at your disposal to answer these questions in writing. First of all, Mr Tomczyk started, and you focused mainly, I have the impression, on insulting the Minister of National Defence and the Ministry of National Defence. [[Kid.]] You exchanged the amount that gave god I don't know where it came from, the amount of PLN 2.5 billion. I don't know anything about that much, much less... In fact, this is where I should start: I would like to thank the initiators very much for this amendment. The project is a parliamentary initiative. Therefore, thank you very much for taking this initiative, because we see it as very positive, and I will also tell you why. At the moment, there is no guarantee of any appropriations in the 2018 budget. Why? Therefore, for the time being, there is no legal basis for securing such measures in the budget. Therefore, only if there is a legal basis will we be able to talk about the resources for this purpose. This is the first case. Case number two. Mr Owl was surprised to mention that grants are being used either for the promotion of shooting, or for issues related to commemorating the history of Polish weapons. Well, sir, it is worth looking into the history of the past few years. Each year, the Ministry of National Defence allocates from several to several million zlotys to support NGOs in this area. - I answer you now - and that is why I urge you to read the subject before the next such meeting and discussion. These tens of millions of zlotys - this year it was 16 million, next year it will be 18 million, 2 million more, which is related to the 100th anniversary of regaining independence by the Polish Republic - this money is used to promote shooting, to support pro-defense organizations, to promote the history of Polish weapons. This money is passed on to non-governmental organisations: associations and foundations. What's the bill for? The law is that, as in the case of non-governmental organisations, if a local government wishes to do so, it is possible to grant such a local government. That is why we believe that this bill is necessary. This law does not imply coercion for anyone: neither for the ministry to carry out such activities nor for local governments to apply for such measures. This law, on the other hand, creates an opportunity for all, and that is valuable in it. The amount of PLN 2.5 billion came up again. If you have that amount saved somewhere, I'd really like to see it, because I don't know anything about this kind of sum. At the moment, when we were trying to support the construction of shooting galleries, we were having a discussion at the Ministry of National Defence, and I would like to say that the amounts we talked about are radically different from those mentioned by parliamentarians. [[What's that, give it to me.]] Mr President, allow me to answer the question first. [[Because you say it's bad, and you don't tell me how bad it is.]] I'm saying that the amounts are diametrically different, and that there isn't that amount yet. If there's a bill and there's a program, then we'll talk. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're making a plan, so what kind of money would you like?]] Here's another thing. Mrs Pasławska... [[Voice from the room: A effect of regulation.]] This is not a government project, and as you know, the effects of regulation are required for government projects. [[Why isn't he government?]] This is a parliamentary project, and I'm telling you this is an amendment to the bill, not a government program. You're confusing these two kinds of documents. I would agree with you if we were discussing a government program. Then you should ask how much money was secured for this, what was the analysis of situations and needs, etc., etc. Then you'd be right. On the other hand, we are discussing an amendment that creates an opportunity. And I suggest you focus on that. Mrs Pasławska - it was surprising to me - she said that the programme for the construction of shooting galleries was yes, but not by the MON. Well, if we talk at this level, it's a good thing something's gonna happen, but it's not that nasty MON with the nasty national defense minister that he's doing it... [[That's what you said.]] It's surprising. I am speaking as I understand the statement made by the Member. If the intention was different, I'm sorry, but that's what it sounded like. Anyway, if we were to discuss it at this level, it would be weird. [[And I feel like you've had the satisfaction of saying it from the Parliamentary Speaker.]] Please? [[You've had the satisfaction of saying those words from the Seymary. I think so.]] I don't know. Here's another thing. Mr Miazga asked if the shooting facilities were being closed. I think that's what this was all about. Yes, in recent years - and it is a pity that Mr. Darkman is not here - 61 facilities, military shooting galleries have been closed. Right now, ladies and gentlemen, we have 52 military shooting galleries, 61 locked down. This shows the scale of the loss when it comes to training infrastructure. Those are the facts. Well, that doesn't really apply to this bill, but the question is, so I'm answering it. Mr Wilczyński said that the Civic Platform wanted the children to kick the ball, and we want the children to shoot. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we, of course, want to support sport. We also want to support initiatives and programmes that promote sport among children and young people and adults, but we also want the citizens of the Republic to be prepared to defend outside sport, in addition to fun. And in this respect, building pro-defence attitudes, supporting pro-defense and shooting organizations is beyond overrated. If you look at how it works in other countries, you'll see that we're not alone in this. Mrs Rutkowska said that the shooting galleries would not be able to maintain that all this would be very expensive and would require subsidies from local governments. I can answer this: this program, if it comes into force after the adoption of this law, will create some opportunities for local governments. [[Oh, the program, and yet the program.]] If local governments take advantage of this, they can either run these shooters themselves or rent them or lease them to non-governmental organizations. [[All-Polish Youth.]] Anyway, given today's interest in shooting, I don't think anyone's lost it. However, I stress that if a local authority considers that it does not need this program, it will not have to be interested in this programme, this project. Mr Grabarczyk said that local governments had no opportunity to comment on this. Well, I'll remind you what Marshal Kuchciński said today. There were 30 days for local governments to speak in this matter. That's one thing. Secondly, I will repeat for the time being that none of the local authorities will be obliged to take such measures. And thirdly, if such statements and such proposals are made by Mr Grabarczyk and other parliamentarians, that it should be a government programme, that all this should be done by the government, then, please, where is the subsidiarity principle, subsidiarity principle, support for local governments in the implementation of the projects? I'm sorry, you're the ones who always say how important this is. [[Applause]] [[It's the government that's gonna take care of the security of the country, isn't it?]] And now you need to be told that these kinds of projects and initiatives that create opportunities for self-government are important? It's really surprising. I am sorry to say that, as far as Mr Suchon's question is concerned, I have understood little of this question, apart from insulting the soldiers. Minister Darkenk is right... I'm sorry. Maybe I'll start with this. Mr Mroczek, as the next parliamentarian, forgot that we are talking not about the program, but about the amendment of the bill. That's one thing. [[You were just talking about the show.]] Secondly, Mr Mroczek, Minister Mroczek is right, training and infrastructure are extremely important. This is very important from the point of view of the level of defence of the Polish state, from the point of view of state security. And in this context, the fact that 61 military shooters have been shut down speaks for itself. In this situation, if we compile data on how many trainers there were still in 2007, let me remind you that this was the last year of the rule of law and justice - 53,000. - and how many in 2014 - 4,8 thousands. - then we'll see that 10 times the number of training reserve soldiers has fallen. This is for Mr. Darkness, who unfortunately isn't in the O.R. He should really take a more critical look at his own accomplishments and weigh words, because what he says, just in the context of these numbers - these are numbers, this is not an assessment, these are numbers - it's just funny. Mrs April asked about the principles of the programme, if this is the case. I hope that this bill will be passed by Parliament and that this programme will be established. We're gonna want all of these rules... for the whole program to come up and be announced in December this year, which is the rules on which local governments can apply for funding, and what this cooperation would look like. As regards the question about Opole, Mr Grabowski - the same. It depends on how this program is designed. I'm sure we'll also consult with the defense committee and non-governmental organizations and uniform schools. These are the answers to the questions I wrote down. If I'm missing something, I can either answer it in writing or I can answer it in the next round. [[I waited, I waited...]] That's right, I'm sorry, because here maybe not the most important but the important statement of Mr. Nitras. [[Thank you.]] Oh, well, Mr Nitras was afraid that these objects would be empty. I must tell you - I was surprised by this - that when it comes to pro-defense organizations that want to use the infrastructure of shooting galleries, it's some, because I'm not talking about individuals, but about organizations that, I don't know, the team, want to use... [[ONR.]] ...they have to wait for it... [[Young people from all over Poland too?]] ...for over a month. Therefore, I am afraid that your concerns are burning and there will be no such situation. [[Voice from the hall: ONR, Youth of All Poland.]] And as far as I'm concerned... [[These aren't pro-defense organizations.]] ...about the package set... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...is a Member, and I see that this unfortunately is quite common in your speeches... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...is ready... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...say absolutely everything. Because you're talking about some package of laws, some kind of... [[Of course, and that wasn't the gun bill?]] I think you're mistaken for the Kukiz Act... The PiS project... [[Do you know Macierewicz's statements about this bill?]] ...who's been reported and who's been presenting... [[Don't judge me. Just answer my question.]] First of all, Minister Macierewicz. Secondly, don't yell at me. [[And third, please tell me the truth.]] In this connection, Mrs Siarkowska's draft of parliamentarians of Law and Justice presented, I remind you. [[Is Mrs. Siarkowska in Law and Justice now?]] You missed it, too, but these are the details. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I'd like to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u169	There's no application for... Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: ...to finally say whether to answer one fundamental question that, I think, is important to all of us. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Have a seat, sir. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: What's the point of all this, to whom it's all meant to be used, this amendment of the law, which will allow the Ministry of National Defence to transfer funds to those self-governments who will voluntarily apply for this, to finance revitalization or to build shooting galleries? Firstly, this is an opportunity for local governments and communities to make investments that they currently have no money for. Secondly, it has a chance to support the development of shooting sport and pro-defence attitudes, pro-defense organizations, which in Poland is very important, not only in Poland. [[We're gonna paint each other's faces.]] And thirdly, also very important, thanks to this they have a chance to increase training opportunities for the Polish Army. Because at the moment there are many units that reach such objects over 100 km. If these facilities are built in different districts, if both pro-defence organisations and individuals and the military can use these facilities, then we can only enjoy it together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative... [[Your Marshal, I asked for a corrigendum.]] Please have a seat, Mr President, the time will come, and I will refer to your requests for correction. Now, sit on the bench. [[Will I be able to correct it?]] Mr President, please sit on the bench. ...the representative of Mr Wojciech's applicants... Son of a bitch. I'm sorry, but my name is so vaguely written that I couldn't read it. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[...it's not a project about Kukiz's weapon...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u171	Mr President, please sit down and allow us to speak again. Sit down, sir. [[I'm sorry, I'm not saying anything. I think I can say something to the minister...]] What do you mean you don't say? You talk all the time. And I would like you to... [[I wouldn't want to in any way...]] ...the applicant's representative had an opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is an important bill made by Members of Law and Justice and we thought, by submitting this printing to the Marshal's staff, that it would be accepted in a very favorable way by the High House, regardless of political views, by all political formations sitting in Parliament. Turns out our hopes were burning. Ladies and gentlemen, but I am convinced that the benefits of this law will be benefited first after the New Year, since 1 January 2018 by local government officials: mayor's mayors, presidents representing among others. The Civic Platform - I'm sure they'll do it first, the Polish People's Party - I'm sure they'll do it first. Because this is a very important bill. A law that supports local governments. No one will force the local authorities to apply to the Minister of National Defence to support the modernisation or construction of the shooting range. Nobody's gonna force you. And we will live practically during the election campaign, and it will be your uncles who will want to boast to their local community, especially the conservative one, which in Podkarpacie there are a lot of, how well this ghetto works, this mayor from the Civic Platform, from the PSL, that he also meets these expectations of paramilitary, pro-defence organizations, these young people, to whom you forbade your failed decisions of shooting training. It's about middle school kids or upper secondary school students. You young people have destroyed this drive over your 8-year-old governments, and that's why these paramilitary, pro-defense organizations have been created like mushrooms after the rain. They wanted to, they were looking for something you took from them. We go to them, we point them out, we help them and we help your self-governments, because above all, it is about those young people who want to train their eye, and maybe someday they will use their skills and abilities for their own homeland, our homeland, to defend our homeland. There were a lot of charges here, a lot of words, from Saxon to Las. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say two things. The Member was talking about the gene. Woodman and his last interview, I understand, about the fact that Polish aviation will only defend itself for four hours in an emergency situation. But General Drewniak, as commander of the Air Force, has not even once stuttered under the rule of the Civic Platform, and has been commander of the Air Force since 2013, that there is a problem. [[Air Force.]] He didn't even say a word once... [[Because they weren't there.]] Because they weren't there, of course. Problems in the Polish army came on 25 October 2015. Only, Commissioner, with all due respect, you dismantled the Polish army, reversed the Polish army and led to the situation that our country was simply defenceless on 25 October 2015. [[Applause]] Minister Antoni Macierewicz, who is being framed by you at the moment, receives times from one side and the other, rebuilds the morale of the army, rebuilds... [[What's he rebuilding?]] ...the Polish army, modernising the Polish army and meeting social expectations. [[Misiewicz.]] And you're not gonna scream reality whether you like it or not, you're not gonna scream reality. But there's one more thing you're after, not these shooting ranges. You're hurting the other part of the bill. You're afraid to say it out loud, but it hurts and it hurts. It is about supporting initiatives, precisely local ones, in local governments, where the glory of Polish weapons is lifted, monuments, often destroying somewhere, because local governments do not have money for their renewal, reconstruction, or maybe construction, as Mr Ruszczyk did, in the case of the National Army monument in Radom. I hope that you will vote in favour of this bill so that we can finally sit this monument on Radom land and put it in the vicinity of the city office. I am counting on you to support this bill because it is an opportunity for President Radom of the Civic Platform to leave and say before the election: listen, I give you the statue of the National Army. But it's gonna be our success together. I hope you vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, this is what bothers you and pains you, and we give you this opportunity: to restore faith, restore hope, but also the glory of the weapon and the Polish soldier forever and ever. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u175	Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska, rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to Mrs Rutkowska's question to the rapporteur of the committee on how security is currently ensured at the shooting range, it must be said first and foremost that the safety is ensured by the owners of the shooting range by adopting the rules of procedure of the shooting range in accordance with, for example, the guidelines of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration's regulation on such regulations. As far as those who do not have a gun permit are concerned, they must be carried out at the shooting range by the so-called. conducting shooting, i.e. the person who has conducted training in conducting shooting and providing medical assistance in the organizational units of the Police, Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, the Polish Association of Sports Shooting or the National Defence League. In addition, it is clear that every responsible adult is bound by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is also subject to the application of the basic principles of safety, which he is previously informed about, which is also our own security, we use our own reason. Another element of the question was how many pro-defence organisations are currently in place and what is the supervision of these organisations at the moment. Well, such estimates of pro-defense organizations, what is the exact number of them, I don't think there are, certainly there are a lot of them, and the biggest ones, the most active ones are about 100. There's a lot more to it than that. The supervision of these organisations is carried out in accordance with the Associations Act, it is judicial supervision, supervision by the Supreme Audit Chamber. As regards pro-defence organisations, they are also obliged to agree their statutes with the Minister for National Defence. Some of them also conclude cooperation agreements with the Minister of National Defence, but he can already choose from among the organizations that will turn for it, those that, according to the Ministry of National Defence, are worth working with them. On the other hand, referring to the questions of Mr Grabarczyk, who argued that I did not give enough detail to the comments that the Civic Platform had on the procedure for proceeding this law - the shooting range law, I would like to clarify that. The Civic Platform argued that this law was being processed too quickly, referring to the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm that the first reading may take place not earlier than the seventh day following the delivery of the draft to Members, unless the Sejm or committee decides otherwise. In this case - and I add here - the committee decided differently because it voted on the move to first reading. [[But in the middle of first reading.]] I hope I was precise enough at this point. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Tomczyk has tabled a request for correction. Time - 1 minute. [[May I have two minutes, Your Marshal?]] No, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think the Minister really misunderstood me. Let me quote your words, Minister: We'd like to have one shooting range in every county as well. We have secure resources for that. So, a note: this range costs between 5 and 7 million. [[Voice from the room: That's not true.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Poland we have 380 powiats. If we multiply 380 counties by 7 million... Is that right, Minister? [[Voice from the room: No, it doesn't.]] ...that's gonna be $2660 million. [[Over 2 billion.]] Just to make it easier, I'm gonna put a dot. 2660 million. This is a mathematical action. You said the numbers didn't lie. These aren't opinions. These are facts. The cost of the shooting range - wrote about it by the Gazeta Prawna, wrote about it in the journal "Facts" and wrote about it "Independant" - is within such limits. So this is math. If you wish to refer to the opinion, please, but these are simply facts. As regards Mrs Sierkowska and the Kukiz club15, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was indeed that the Member was there, and now she is here. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[How perceptive.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u179	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Sowa Also on the issue of corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I too, Minister, must say that I think you have deliberately misled us today, saying that we do not know what budget, that we do not know anything. I have a message from the Ministry of National Defence on the part of the MON of 7 September 2017, where you are quoted as saying: Shooting range is to be open to everyone, located in every district. It is a programme prepared by the Ministry of National Defence, which will be in force from the new year. We have secured measures - if the measures are secured, the level of these measures must be stated - and we are at the stage of legal change. That's what you're saying. I also have to say that there's a strange note downstairs that if someone wants to know more, they should look at the TVP Info website. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u181	Thank you. Such a request was also made by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome. Time, too, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I don't think you understand me. I asked three very simple questions. First of all, why aren't the shooting galleries financed by sports funds? Secondly, why will the Ministry of Culture not finance monuments? And the third question: Will these monuments be included in the 2% limit GDP that should be devoted to defence? And if these monuments are counted to the 2% will you inform our allies about this fact? Because you made such an obligation. Minister! I must say, this is where you abused your trust and misled the High House. I haven't offended a single Polish soldier. I've assessed your competence. The designation of people who cannot jump with a parachute is precisely a lack of competence in this area. If the Minister doesn't understand such simple things, I'm not surprised he doesn't understand his actions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're destroying the Polish army. Thank you very much. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u183	Thank you very much. Minister Michał Dworczyk has expressed his willingness to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me repeat: let us try to discuss substantively, not to be offended whether it is directly or indirectly. That doesn't lead to anything good, sir. As for Mr. Tomczyk's statement, I understand that the amount you were talking about came from the calculations that you yourself did on the basis of what you thought or read somewhere... [[Did you read your quote? You didn't see it.]] ...you have read in the Legal Gazette, etc., etc. I'm telling you, the shooting range could cost $50,000 and $25 million. Therefore, your presumption is... [[So the average is about 7 million, right?]] No, sir, that's not how it works. Your presumption is not based on any facts. These are your speculations. [[But you can't give me any money.]] Therefore, you are misleading the public on the basis of some of your ideas. This is the first case. [[This is the information contained in the press release. That's one thing. And secondly, you can't tell me any amount.]] Mr President, may I continue? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u185	Mr. Speaker! Allow the Minister to respond to your comments and not disturb you at this time. Minister, you're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Sowa recalled the statement from which the memo was posted on the website of the Ministry of National Defence, which I repeated: the programme is being prepared. I don't see your MP. Oh, he's over there, yeah. The programme is being developed, it is true, because we hope that Parliament will adopt this law, which is why we are developing the programme. However, it is also true that we do not know exactly how much money we will spend on it, because there is a budget envelope for various kinds of projects that are not yet distributed. Whether more money will be used to support non-governmental organisations in the field of cultivating the Polish arms tradition or promoting the history of Polish weapons or other projects, it is not yet defined. Therefore, I'm not really misleading you, but it's exactly what I said. Another issue is why the monuments will not be financed by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Yes, they will. But also - and I am telling you that this is a practice that exists all over the world - every army makes sure that its heritage is ensured that the history of the weapons of a given country is well publicized and honored. And there's nothing weird about it. Besides, it's been doing it for years. Therefore, nothing changes here, but so far these projects have only been implemented by NGOs, and now they will still be able to do this additionally by local authorities. So nothing's gonna change around here. Why not sport? The Ministry of Sport can also finance various types of projects for the development of shooting. But given that sports shooting is something else, and what else is shooting related to pro-defence organisations, it is perfectly justified that the Ministry also supports projects aimed at supporting pro-defence organisations and shooting precisely such tactical and one which is carried out by paramilitary and pro-defence organisations. Does that count as 2%? GDP? Of course I do. I assure you that all NATO countries have various kinds of programs specifically related to commemorating the heritage of their armies, which include those 2% GDP. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u186	Dear Minister, Projectors envisage granting the Ministry of National Defence the possibility to support grants of local self-government units, which will take measures to build or renovate shooting galleries and develop shooting sport and grant for the construction and renovation of monuments commemorating the tradition, glory and fame of Polish weapons. Apart from the question in my view, I would like to ask: 1. Has this project, designated as parliamentary, been consulted to any extent with the Ministry? 2. Does the Ministry share the opinion of the projectors that such grants are in demand in local governments? If so, for what reasons have the opinions of the local authorities not been presented? Did the Ministry receive requests from local authorities for such grants? If so, how many? 3. In other words, did the Ministry ask local governments what money they need most for these days? For monuments and places of worship and shooting galleries instead of e.g. For kindergartens and day care? 4. From what sources and to what extent will public funding be spent on the grants referred to in the project?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u187	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the Commission's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system (prints 1891 and 1941). Ms Anna April will present the report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u188	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, to present a report on the work of the committee, in print No 1941, relating to the draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system, in print No 1891. The aim of the Act is to make minor changes in five, or actually in four laws - the effect of the committee's work - to adapt the terminology in them to the current legal situation. On 10 October 2017, the Marshal of the Sejm sent this bill to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation for First Reading. The first reading was held on 25 October. It is worth noting that this law is a reaction of the Committee on Petitions, which has responded positively to the petition filed by Mr Sebastian Adamowicz, as a result of which the Act is being discussed in the High House. In the course of the committee's work, only one amendment relating to the article was proposed. 3 Law on Road Traffic due to the ongoing parallel work in the Sejm relating to this law. These works also include the revision of this Article. 3. The committee therefore unanimously adopted the proposal to amend, i.e. to delete the article. 3 in the bill. The other articles raised no doubt, they were adopted unanimously. Therefore, on behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, I recommend that the High House adopt a law with the proposed amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u189	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I'll be the first person to ask Mr. Peter King, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on prints 1891 and 1941, the draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. First, I would like to pass on one amendment to your marshal, which we would like to make on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law amending certain laws to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system concerns four legal acts, namely the Law of 26 June 1974. The Labour Code, secondly, the Law of 18 April 1985 on the recognition by the courts of labour law and social security cases, thirdly, the Law of 24 June 1999 on the implementation of the legislative initiative by citizens and finally the Act of 5 January 2011. The bill is a reaction of the Committee on Petitions of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland to a petition addressed to the Sejm by Mr Sebastian Adamowicz, which the committee considered justified. The purpose of the Act is to make minor changes to the five laws adapting the terminology in them to the current legal situation. The introduction of these amendments will make it easier for the addressees to revise the legislation, to understand it and to apply it properly in the current legal environment. As far as the Labour Code is concerned, there is a reference to voivodship courts that no longer exist in the Polish judicial system, and it is therefore proposed to make a comprehensive amendment to the article. 262 taking into account both the replacement of regional courts with district courts and the restoration of appeals courts. It also appears necessary to amend the Law of 18 April 1985 on the recognition of labour and social security cases by the courts. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Sorry, this one's about Traffic Law. It's been crossed out. But there's another amendment to this bill, which is the Election Code Act of January 5th. There is the concept of a health care establishment that has been eliminated from legal trading by the Law of 15 April 2011 on medicinal activities. This law replaced the concept of "health care establishment' with the term "health operator'. It is worth noting that the essential socio-legal effect of the proposed law will be to improve the coherence and transparency of the legal system. Due to its nature and limited scope, the law will not have economic effects as well as financial implications for the public finance sector. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, with this amendment that I had the opportunity to pass on to your marshal, intends to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform would like to recommend voting in favour of this draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system in the Committee on Petitions. The consequence of the reform of the state system, the adoption of new legislation or the revision of existing legislation is the need to take account of the coherence of new solutions with those already in place. The system of law is really quite delicate matter. Even a slight change in one law can lead to inaccuracies in another. As a legislative authority, the Sejm must ensure the transparency and high quality of the laws in force in Poland, which is why we consider the amendments in four laws to be justified. As a Civic Platform club, we will support any project that improves the quality of our law. Affordability and high level of laws contribute to increasing the sense of security and civic awareness of Poles, and are also a manifestation of the efficiency and integrity of legislative bodies. That is why we will vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the contested bill deserves support because in a way that does not make life difficult for citizens, it changes old legal texts such as the Voivodeship Court, the Warsaw District or the health care establishment, which are no longer based in reality. It is only a pity that the High House did not think of this earlier when it caused this confusion at the legislative level, brought chaos and put citizens into difficulties in applying the rules. It is worth to review all laws in terms of consistency, so as to eliminate all anachronisms and all outdated wordings in Polish law. I would like to point out that with the change of words in my opinion, in my opinion, there should also be an ideal cut-off from the past, especially from this past from the times of the Polish People's Republic. In many Polish laws there are still anachronisms from the Polish People's Republic. Therefore, let us not only change words, but also change institutions that remember the times of the right past system. And I would like to ask such open questions addressed to the honourable House: Why do we still need the reporting obligation restored at the previous sitting of the Sejm by Law and Justice, Modern and Civil Platform? Why are we still banned from selling from the counter? Why do we still need to appeal to the Polish People's Republic in press law and in the act on socio-professional farmers' organisations? Why do we still need a crime in the form of public insulting the head of a foreign state? Why do we still need to appeal to the Civic Militia in the Minister of Health and Social Welfare's decree on the death and cause of death? And why do we still need a lot of other communist relics? It's about 28 years after the transformation of the system to end this farce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u195	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u196	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the Commission proposal for a law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. The draft submitted aims to make minor changes in the group of laws, adapting the terminology in them to the current legal situation. These amendments should make it easier for the addressees of the amended acts to understand and apply them properly in the current normative environment. It is extremely important that the legislation adopted is consistent in terminology. Unfortunately, the bill submitted shows that the law adopted in the current parliamentary term, but also in previous terms there is much to be blamed on this issue. This puts all the existing parliaments under pressure, but it should be a lesson for this parliament. Unfortunately, the current government and Parliament do not benefit from these valuable teachings. We are only halfway through the current term, and yet the Seym has passed a record number of legal bulls, quickly and forcefully pushed by the PiS. It should be anticipated that in the near future the Polish Parliament will have to adopt many laws to correct this state of affairs. Therefore, on the occasion, I appeal to the Members of the PIS to come to their senses in the spoils of Polish law. Give more attention to the substantive work and the refinement of your laws. Don't bring chaos into the legal system. Polish people and Poles deserve a stable and above all a good law. But returning to the point - the Modern Posel Club will definitely strive to improve this law, which has already been created, and this law is moving towards it, hence we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u197	Thank you. Mr Jan Łopata, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u198	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present our position, our opinion on the report of the committee on the draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. High Izbo! The project under investigation is a good example of citizen-state feedback, in this case the state understood as a parliament. As a result of a citizens' petition to the Committee on Petitions, the Polish Parliament has proposed a number of changes, on which we are currently proceeding. Generally, the changes in terminology are indeed minor, perhaps even irrelevant, but they certainly correct the terminology used in the current legal state. It refers to the wording of the Labour Code in the law of the Voivodeship courts, although for a long time, as we know, since 18 December 1998, since the amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts, the voivodeship courts have become district courts. The restoration of appeals courts should also be taken into account in order to comply with existing legislation. An amendment to the Article should have been made comprehensively. 262 Labour Code. Another amendment proposed by the Committee on Petitions is the elimination from the Road Traffic Law of the reference to the district of Warsaw, which is, as we know, inadequate for the current administrative division. This amendment, bearing in mind the suggestion made by the legislators, the applicant withdrew, because, as we have been informed, the work on eliminating these provisions in other laws is being carried out. Another proposal for a revision is to update the electoral code to include a health care establishment. Given that the name has since been changed to the company of the medicinal entity and, in turn, to the medical establishment in 2016, this had to be taken into account. High Seym! According to the present range of changes, this is not some revolutionary legislation, but I think that order is an important element of some sort of satisfaction. If, at the request of the voters, the citizen can do it, then let's just do it. The Members' Club of the Polish People's Party will be in favour of the proposed changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u199	Mr Ireneusz Gains, near Free and Solidarnia. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation on the Commission's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. The draft submitted, as we can read in the explanatory memorandum, is a response to one of the petitions that was dealt with by the Committee on Petitions and which it considered appropriate. It introduces in the provisions of four laws: the Labour Code, the law on the recognition by the courts of labour law and social security cases, the law on the implementation of the legislative initiative by citizens and the electoral code of amendment aimed at adapting the terminology in them to the current legal situation. Although these are minor corrections, but extremely important, eliminating historical events, outdated terminology and the names of institutions that do not exist in the current legal order, this undoubtedly contributes to greater transparency and legibility of the law. It is surprising that none of the parliamentarians had previously noticed that the Labour Code, which is so often used in practice, still contains a provision on the settlement of disputes over employment claims by the Voivodship courts that have not existed for 19 years. It should be noted that there are more similar cases. Polish legislation still contains legal acts in which there are references to institutions known in the Polish People's Republic. This was noticed by the Sejm created, among others. by former and present activists of the Independent Students' Association of Repairs, which addressed us in February this year. a petition indicating five laws which require immediate amendment. The most vivid example is the Act of 26 January 1984. Press law, which is in many places a true relic of the Polish People's Republic. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2, i.e. at the very beginning of this law, we can read: The state authorities in accordance with the Constitution of the Polish People's Republic create the press the necessary conditions for the performance of its functions and tasks. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by 3: The editor-in-chief of the journal or journal must not be a person convicted of crimes against the fundamental political and economic interests of the Polish People's Republic. Similar flowers, you can say, we can find e.g. in the Act on Socio-Professional Organisations of Farmers, for example in the provision that individual farms are a sustainable and equal element of the socio-economic system of the Polish People's Republic. It is worth noting that this problem has been recognised by the current parliamentary majority and the government. The process is ongoing on the draft amendment of the Press Law which eliminates, among others, the law. Communist raids. It welcomes the fact that all parliamentary clubs support this proposal. Following the petition, the Ministry of Development also announced work on decommunization of the laws. In our assessment of the action to organise and ensure consistency of the legal system of the Republic of Poland should go as far as possible during this term of the Sejm and be reduced to a comprehensive review of the most important laws concerning particular branches of the law in order to eliminate all kinds of contradictions, old terminology or outdated references to legal acts. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u201	Thank you very much, sir. One person, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, entered the list of people who want to ask a question. Only, sir, I understand that this is a question for the rapporteur. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is impossible to disagree with Mr Pampuch that if we put more care into lawmaking in the Polish Sejm, we would not have to receive such requests and petitions. The question is this: Should we wait for outsiders to draw attention to the really low quality of the law? Wouldn't it be good to take the initiative? The question is for you: Should this be an initiative from the petition committee to take action so that the Sejm can actually check certain legal acts where there have been such provisions which do not fit the current legal situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u203	Thank you. I ask Anna April, the rapporteur of the committee, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! You will allow the marshal that in the first words I will thank all the clubs for this, I think, honest work on this law and common position, because our view of the issue of terminology coherence in the laws is the same. We want the law created to be consistent, clear, so that people, citizens who use it, so that when we read, we have no doubt. Of course, such doubts arise and arise. That's all I'm gonna say. Mr President, at one time, I remember such data - I can't say when it was, maybe 2 or 3 years ago - I read that about 40% of the bill's drafts have such discrepancies and situations where there is no such terminology coherence. There's a lot of work ahead of us. On the one hand, the honourable Member said, because we are creating this law too quickly, and that is why such errors arise. But I wanted to stress from this point of view that you often accuse us that there hasn't been a bill yet, something hasn't been settled yet. So you'd like a cookie and a cookie. You can't do that. Although I think it's a job. All of us. And here we have to say that the legislators pay attention to this, they are very insightful. These are people with a lot of experience, yet such mistakes are slipping away. We're all here to pay attention to such mistakes, correct them. No one is exempt, no Member or Legislative Office, from this obligation, which is consistent and clear lawmaking. This obligation cannot be transferred to one group, even to the ruling group, it is an obligation All of us. As to the question whether the Committee on Petitions should come up with such an initiative, I will try to ask such a question. On the other hand, I would like to say that the petition committee is one of those who work very honestly and very hard. Citizens are extremely creative and many petitions affect this committee. The Members shall endeavour to work on these petitions as soon as possible. On the other hand, from this point of view, as far as this committee is concerned, I have a chance to thank Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, who presented this bill on behalf of the committee. Allow me to pass on this question to the President and this request from the Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u205	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft Act on Insurance Distribution (Prints No. 1781 and 1985). I ask Mr Jan Shewczyk to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u206	It's a shoemaker, but it's a common mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u207	I'm so sorry. It's written like that, and that's how I read it. I'm sorry. It will be Mr Jan Szewczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u208	I'm used to this Szewczyk being with me since I was a kid. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present a report to the Committee on Public Finances on the work on printing project 1781 on insurance distribution together with draft implementing acts - the first version. I'd like to show those who say we're not doing anything but talking about what this document looks like. This is, of course, the implementation of EU legislation, the directive on both insurance distribution and, you can say, insurance mediation. Of course, the faith of legislators in the European Union is even greater than our belief in the power to do so. These rules are intended to make it good for insurance in our country from now on. All insurance products will be distributed in a reliable, honest, professional way, because of course we have such records here. This is such a wishful thinking, because it is not just a letter of law, about which the representatives of Modern times have spoken a lot just now, that special attention must be shown to legislation. As a matter of fact, in the case of this document, some of the modern colleagues did not get very involved in the work. Indeed, it is not so politically attractive to speak, because it is more than 100 articles with such a very technocratic meaning, so to speak. One could say that there is a message going in such a direction to protect the client from any ambiguity, from all these types of misselling used in this type of activities of insurance companies. However, it seems that common sense, decency, honesty in business activities and proper supervision of such institutions guarantee that we will not face such a financial scandal as in the case of polysolokat. 5 million Poles were cut into grossly cheating products for nearly PLN 50 billion. So we accept it with the benefit of the inventory. Two subcommittee meetings on this matter and a committee meeting yesterday. There's probably gonna be some more attempts to make adjustments. We know that the financial spokesman at the committee meeting yesterday made some proposals. We'll work on it. Working in the subcommittee and in the committee was, it seems, quite consistent despite differences of temperament and political attitudes, because it is such a document, you can say, technocratic. Of course, we will see how it will actually work in our country. These are similar to previous BRRDs or MIFID-related EU proposals. We are, of course, open to continuing this work and ending it in the field of insurance distribution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u209	Thank you very much. The committee report was presented by Mr Jan Szewczak. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I will ask Mrs Iwona Michalek to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u210	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the government bill on insurance distribution. The establishment of new regulations results from the need to implement in the national legal order the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016. According to the Directive, customers should benefit from protection at the same level, regardless of the differences between distribution channels. It is therefore essential that insurance distributors operate in a level playing field. The draft law assumes that insurance intermediaries should be classified as brokers and insurance agents, subject to the inadmissibility of the merger of both functions. Such a solution is justified in the current market practice and the reasonableness of such a solution. An entity's breakdown is a classic picture of insurance mediation where only brokers or agents registered as brokers can perform mediation activities. This division also applies to persons engaged in brokerage activities. Consequently, it is proposed to maintain division into agency activities and agency activities carried out by insurance agents and brokerage activities and brokerage activities carried out by insurance brokers. In addition, it is proposed that agency activities and agency activities be carried out in addition to insurance agents also by agents offering supplementary insurance. The draft law provides for the direct performance by the insurance undertaking of the activities relating to the distribution of insurance by the employees' insurance undertaking. Such activities are defined as the distribution activities of the insurance undertaking. Similarly, it is proposed that reinsurance undertakings entitled to carry out reinsurance distribution activities shall perform the reinsurance undertaking's distribution activities. Until now, insurance intermediation has also included reinsurance intermediation. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed law proposes that insurance distribution also means carrying out preparatory activities to conclude, conclude and assist in the administration and performance of insurance guarantee contracts, as well as in matters of compensation or benefit. I would like to say briefly: this law is intended to secure very strongly, to increase the level of protection of customers who have insurance contracts, and therefore the Law and Justice Club recommends this law positively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u211	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u212	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present an opinion to the draft Act on Insurance Distribution, which implements the European Parliament and Council Directive on several issues: on insurance distribution, this Directive should be implemented by February 2018, and we are introducing a partial implementation of the Financial Markets Directive, as well as on insurance mediation, which refers to additional customer protection requirements for insurance-based investment products. This directive should be introduced into the Polish legal order, i.e. into our regulations, by 3 January. The project is important, we discussed this project both at first reading and in the subcommittee, but also at the meeting of the Public Finance Committee yesterday. We pay attention to a number of important aspects. As regards the aspect of customer information obligations, in this respect, as in the case of banking products, we have improved the quality of the information provided about the product itself. Thus, it is a clear, legible way for the consumer, the customer, to know as much as possible about the product when concluding the contract. This information obligation was included in this bill, indicated and, I think, well discussed. As regards additional training for all entities that distribute insurance through insurance companies, intermediaries, but also brokers and agents, it is detailed how long and what additional training these persons should take. As regards market protection, the Civic Platform introduced the Ombudsman's institution in the previous term of office for complaints, but also for assistance in disputes with the entities in which the product is purchased. In our opinion, one of the important solutions that are included in this law if we introduce it by the end of this year - I think it will be welcomed by all market participants - is the entry into force of regulations that give the opportunity for Polish companies to start their business on the Polish market providing information about transactions. We have said a great deal and there is no dispute about the fact that the Civic Platform Club will support this project as it came out of the committee, although there are still some elements that we hope will be improved at the stage of the Senate work. However, we want to ensure that there is a certain order in this market, apart from the information obligation, in terms of the prices offered for the products, but also the commission for certain products. We have said this in the context of changing prices in the motor insurance market. We have proposed that, in terms of entering certain costs, which the customer pays for such a product, we weigh it and measure that in the beginning there should be no competition war, i.e. everyone sells cheaply and then increases the price of the product, with which, once again, we have dealt with in the case of motor insurance. I said that we would support this project, and that we are also able to convince our senators to make such shortcomings, which may be indicated by the Members when they ask questions, to complement them. We are also counting on reliable and constructive cooperation with the government in this regard. As for what Mr Szewczak said, we have been implementing since 2004 so that these rules, as agreed, are consistent with European Union legislation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is not the biggest problem. We were dealing with the Customs Code, which had 900 articles and 108 in the introductory regulations. It happened in a short time. I would like to remind you that Parliament is working at such a rate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u213	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Długi on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. I can't see. So, Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u214	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement on the report of the committee on the government draft law on insurance distribution, printing No. 1781 and 1985. The proposal concerns the establishment of new regulations resulting from the need to implement into the national legal order the provisions of Directive 206/97 of the Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 20 January 2016. The Act lays down rules on the exercise of activities in the field of distribution of personal and property insurance and the distribution of reinsurance. The Public Finance Commission has made numerous amendments to the draft law, on which the subcommittee was also working on the issues of financial institutions. The bill imposes on brokers and insurance agents a number of new information obligations on customers. They shall be required to present them before the contract is concluded. They should inform the client in a fair and consistent manner about the principles of complaint and out-of-court dispute settlement and, which is quite controversial, must provide information on the nature of the remuneration received in connection with the contract offered. The insurance distributor will also be required to determine the customer's requirements and needs on the basis of information obtained from the customer and to provide him with objective information about the insurance contract in order to enable him to make an informed decision. In the course of its work, the Public Finance Commission amended the definition of the client in the case of insurance guarantee contracts and identified it as the payer of the insurance guarantee and introduced the definition of the seeker for insurance protection. In addition, the definition of insurance mediation has been amended. During the committee's work in the article. Paragraph 16 has also been added. 6, which concerns the provision of information on complaints by insurance agents and supplementary insurance agents who perform agency activities for more than one insurance undertaking under the same heading. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 14 was divided into three successive paragraphs, which fosters a better understanding of the provisions of the Act. In Chapter 2, Article 2. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 concerning the provision by the insurance undertaking of information before the conclusion of the life insurance contract, the need to provide information on the distribution cost index and the cost index of the commission of the person performing the distribution activity of the insurance undertaking has been changed to the need to provide information on the amount of the distribution cost index related to the proposed contract. Modern is in favour of this bill. It is intended to implement EU law, but it also covers the implementation of other legislation and is therefore a comprehensive regulation. What is very important is that it strengthens the protection of people who have insurance contracts, which are, after all, an important part of our lives. Customers have the right to be properly informed about the provisions of the insurance contract before it is signed, so that they are fully aware of the decision as to whether or not to sign such a contract. That is why we are in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u215	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, who will perform on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on insurance distribution, printing No. 1781 and 1985. The draft law sets out the rules governing the exercise of activities in the field of distribution of personal and property insurance and the distribution of reinsurance. It is a rather extensive document, and I confirm it in favour of the rapporteur, an extensive document. The project has been consulted with many institutions and contains many solutions so far proposed by these institutions. The project was subject to an in-depth analysis during the work of the Permanent Sub-Committee and the Committee on Public Finances. Recommended for adoption by the High House contains a number of editorial and legislative amendments tabled by the Legislative Office. The Ombudsman's Office submitted comments on the complaint procedure and the out-of-court settlement of disputes. The Commission also accepted the amendment proposed by the government, which concerns the possibility for Polish entities to apply for the authorisation of the Financial Supervision Commission to provide services for the provision of information on transactions. This proposal is good and in line with the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. The heated discussion at the committee meeting triggered provisions on penalties for violation of the law. Many members of the committee, including the Office for Sejm Analysis, drew attention to the simplifications in this area. These records are vague, may raise doubts, be interpreted differently, and punishing anyone should however be clearly defined, clarified. However, the entries in the draft submitted have not been modified - they are in the form proposed by the Government - with full acceptance by the Financial Supervision Authority. The reasons for the provisions relating to sanctions and penalties concerning their details appear obvious, but it should also be stressed that the draft law is an implementation of Union law and certain provisions are transferred to Polish law in the form literally contained in the EU Directive. After all, the draft law is the implementation of directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on insurance distribution, as well as a partial implementation of directives on markets in financial instruments and on insurance mediation. These directives introduce a single legal regime for the insurance market, which is very important, in all the Member States of the European Union and the countries of the European Economic Area, and leave in principle a small margin to regulate the law in this respect by individual Member States. This is why the bill allows you to provide cross-border insurance services. The overarching objective of the project is to integrate the insurance market, ensure fair competition and ensure consumer protection. And these objectives are met. Recalling the most important provisions of the bill, it should be noted that the project strongly strengthens the position of supervisory authorities, i.e. The Commission for Financial Supervision, and very detailed rules for the functioning of both insurance undertakings and agents, as well as insurance brokers and insurance intermediaries. The Act obliges very widely understood information activities in relation to clients, supervisors, i.e. the Commission for Financial Supervision, but also the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. The draft standardizes the rules for the production, approval and sale of products, as well as the keeping of certain records concerning products and entities in the insurance field. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In general, it should be stressed that the draft law, through the included information, organisational and supervisory requirements, is a pro-consumer project that raises the awareness and safety of insured persons. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u217	Thank you very much. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law on insurance distribution. The aim of the bill is to implement the EU directive, which, as members of the European Union, we are obliged to do. A brief discussion was held at one of the meetings of the subcommittees on which this draft was discussed on the extent to which the regulations implemented by us correspond to the content of EU legislation. It is a fact that the scope of the laws implementing the Union rules in question varies and often goes beyond the framework set out in the document on which it is modelled. However, I do not believe that this is a priority issue. It is important that the regulations put in place in the best possible, fully respond to specific problems and can help our society to ensure that solutions that meet the required standards are best suited to the reality of our country. I'm sure the bill on insurance distribution meets these requirements. As the representatives of the Ministry of Finance claim, the bill submitted to us is the result of a search for a compromise between the so-called. freedom of business and consumer protection. These searches continued during the long work on the project in the Ministry, during subsequent consultations and work carried out in the Sejm. A number of interested parties' comments and amendments that have been made translate into the draft that has been examined today. I have no doubt that the solutions contained in it are reasonable. The need to increase consumer protection in the insurance market is not a new need. Various cases of fraud and fraud, obscure and crooked products were the result, among others. insufficient and poor regulation. The proposed rules will increase customer safety, professionalism of services and transparency of the entire market. Matching products to expectations and needs will be improved. Of course, I agree that a significant impact on the receipt and outcome of this law, as with all legal acts, will have the enforcement of the new rules. However, I am convinced of the sense and need to adopt these regulations. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u219	Thank you, Member. Three people have entered the list of Members. Anybody else want to ask you a question? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. Time - 1 minute. We begin with Mrs Iwona Michalek, please, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law, of course, aims to increase insurance safety. Customers are to be reliably informed by professional employees, insurance intermediaries. I wanted to ask: What standards will these workers have, and did they set training requirements for these people? Will they be, like, permanently trained to actually serve every customer well and professionally? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u221	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u222	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! A professional, complicated bill, so that's the question. The question concerns inter alia. the provision of information on transactions by Polish entities - we introduce such an institution - concerns the audit of financial statements by an audit firm or a statutory auditor with an entity that is a provider of transaction information services where - this is the amendment introduced - the auditor suspected a breach of law or a threat to the activities of the provider of that service or issued a negative opinion on the financial statements of the buyer of the services, as well as on the provision of information on transactions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is indicated that it does not need to notify the Authority for important reasons. And these important reasons are not indicated in the act itself. I would therefore like to ask once again: Will the government try to lean forward at a later stage of the legislative process to identify important reasons why it is not necessary for the statutory auditor or audit firm to notify the statutory bodies of these very reasons and of these errors in its conduct? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u223	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, will ask the last question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill is good, everyone agrees to support it. It increases the safety of customers who should be operated by professional brokers and companies that offer insurance. I just have a question: Is it certain that these solutions and the credibility of these companies will also make these companies responsible for the products that are offered? Because, indeed, those requirements which are currently set out in this Act, in my opinion, can improve the fact that these offers will be more reliable, and companies which in turn offer these insurances will also be verified in terms of reliability by professional tenderers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u225	Thank you. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the questions. The first question concerned information requirements. The Regulation, which is the Commission Implementing Regulation of 11 August 2017, states that this standardised format for the presentation of an insurance product information document should contain information, after printing, on 2 pages in A4 format, and in exceptional cases where more space is needed, such a document may consist of a maximum of 3 pages in A4 format. Of course, the purpose of this regulation is that all information should be presented in a concise and simple manner so that it does not require reading a great deal of text. Question about training requirements. The regulation states that this requirement is 15 hours of training within a year to improve the presentation of information obligations. Mrs Skowrońska asked about matters relating to statutory auditors. What is the key, what is the idea behind this solution, not to inform the supervisory authorities as soon as it is established that there are irregularities in these important matters? First of all, and here it seems to be a reasonable solution, in fact the auditor is responsible at the beginning, when the case is really serious when it concerns the so-called. important issues, to inform the Financial Supervision Commission, i.e. this obligation to inform the Financial Supervision Authority exists. But, on the other hand, such a solution, in order not to inform the supervisory authorities of the company, is precisely allowing the company not to have time to mate, can be said when the Financial Supervision Committee is preparing for control, and to be able to control by surprise in these very important matters. So this is a rational solution from the point of view of the company's risk of jerking off. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u227	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws (Prints No. 1864 and 1962). I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance a report on the Government's draft law amending the law on value added tax and certain other laws. At its 49th meeting, on 11 October, the Sejm sent the above draft to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Commission examined the draft on 26 October 2017 and asks the High House to approve the attached draft law. The main objective of the bill is to fight against dishonesty, fight against VAT carousels, fight against the VAT gap, i.e. to seal the VAT system in Poland. The second objective is to improve the stability of VAT receipts. I think that a very important goal is also to give Polish entrepreneurs tools so that they can effectively protect themselves against unwanted participation in VAT carousels and all the consequences. The Act introduces an innovative, albeit based on the experiences of several other countries of the European Union, solution from English called split payment, or split payment mechanism. What is this mechanism? Payments resulting from VAT invoices to be made by the taxable person to his suppliers, his service providers, will be distributed into two sources: one payment will be made in a net amount into the normal account of the trader, the other payment, the amount of VAT resulting from the invoice, will be made into a separate VAT account, and from this separate VAT account the trader will be able to transfer VAT to another invoice, somewhere to his supplier, or to transfer this obligation, VAT, to the tax office. This bill will be safe, you can't steal money from this account, which is actually the end of the VAT carousel. If entrepreneurs use this tool, it will not be possible to use the mechanism of a typical carousel. Of course, it is voluntary to use this solution, but the law proposes incentives to use this solution. If the trader and his contractor choose to benefit from a split payment, if this VAT is paid on a separate VAT account, they will be exempt from the so-called "tax." joint responsibility for the dishonesty of its counterparty. In turn, for those who accept such payment, it will certainly be an incentive that any refund of VAT will be received on VAT account in an accelerated period. During the committee meeting, I think all our political groups agreed that this solution was valuable, that it would secure our tax system, that the government had simply done a good job in preparing this bill. Some of the details probably did not appeal to some of you, although it is worth noting that the opposition Members did not make any amendments and thus did not submit any minority proposals to this draft law, while some amendments were tabled by Mr Sylvester Tułaev of Law and Justice. These amendments dealt with minor issues, you can say details, but also important ones. One amendment referred to a change in the model of keeping the VAT account. The bank will only open one account for all settlement accounts - this amendment was accepted by the committee - so that these accounts will not be multiplied by opening them for each account that the trader runs at the bank. The exception will be the National Bank of Poland. The second amendment, also tabled by Mr Sylvester Tulayev, is an amendment introducing the possibility to serve provisions using the electronic communication system or the electronic communication system. It concerns provisions on the authorisation of the head of the tax office to transfer the funds collected in the separate VAT account to another account held by the trader in the same bank. This amendment was also accepted by the committee. It remains to be summed up, to thank the government on behalf of the committee for a really good job, for a bill that will, as a result, give us a good increase in revenue to the budget, will, I think, end effectively the issue of these VAT carousels. I move to the High House at the same time to adopt the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u229	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and some other laws, which is presented in prints 1864 and 1962. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth recalling at this point 2007 and the information that appeared from the European Commission, which stated that Poland was the leader among the countries of the European Union with the lowest VAT gap. Only the Netherlands could boast of a better outcome than us. Since 2008, the VAT gap has been growing at a downward rate. In 2015 it was already over PLN 50 billion. The gap in VAT in 2015, as I mentioned, was seven times higher than in 2007. The cumulative VAT gap for the years 2008-2015, i.e. during the time when the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party coalition ruled, amounts to over PLN 262 billion. So we knew how great it was to allow the tax system to be leaky so that we could just steal from our country. Therefore, as Law and Justice during the election campaign, we have repeatedly stressed that the tax system must be effectively sealed. And that's what happened. You will admit that these actions of the Government of Law and Justice, these actions of Prime Minister Beata Szydło are very effective. We can see this even after the budget surplus for September 2017. This surplus, let me remind you, is PLN 3800 million. Of course it is important to make further changes, seal the tax system, which is why we have this bill on the split payment mechanism. The aim of this solution is to ensure greater stability of revenue from goods and services tax, but also to prevent tax evasion on goods and services, which will ensure, firstly, greater tax security, secondly, the certainty of doing business and, thirdly, to maintain a level playing field. As the rapporteur mentioned, amendments were tabled during the work of the committee. I thank the committee members very much for adopting these amendments. One amendment is quite significant, changing the model of keeping the VAT account. The details have already been mentioned by the Member, and I will not repeat them. I would like to say that the split payment mechanism is considered to be one of the solutions aimed at combating fraud and tax fraud, eliminating the risk of taxpayers disappearing together with their counterparties and not exempting VAT. This mechanism makes it difficult or even impossible for fraud to arise at the very stage of the transaction. At the same time, it ensures greater transparency of VAT settlements and makes it difficult to transfer money abroad. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to make two amendments to this bill. The first amendment is necessary in view of the need to maintain fiscal secrecy in those proceedings where consent will be given only for the part of the amount requested by the taxpayer. We are talking about changes in the article here. 108b. The transfer to the bank of the same provision which was provided to the taxpayer carries a risk of disclosure of the tax confidentiality, as such a provision may be justified in fact. information on the taxpayer's tax arrears due to which the provision was issued for an amount lower than that requested. That is why we consider this to be a very important amendment. The second amendment aims to remove unnecessary provisions in the draft and is adaptable. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request the adoption of the amendments tabled by our club and the adoption of the Act on the content presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u231	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The split payment mechanism introduced in the project may be an effective instrument to combat tax evasion in relation to the tax on goods and services, as the tax paid at the price determined by the supplier or service provider will be credited to the separate VAT account and from it to the tax authority. However, it should be stressed that the rules contained in the project also have shortcomings. They may have a negative impact on the financial liquidity of traders, since the taxable person who is a supplier or service provider will be free to own only the net amount of the receivable received, as the amount of the tax which is part of the price will be frozen in a separate VAT account. Moreover, it should be borne in mind that the introduction of a split payment mechanism will cost both businesses and banks. The Ministry of Finance in the explanatory memorandum of the project indicates that the application of the split payment mechanism will be voluntary. This is true, but only with regard to the buyer, because from the supplier's point of view it is difficult to say on a voluntary basis. It must be stressed that the buyer has the sole initiative to apply the split payment. As a result of a unilateral decision by the buyer on the supplier's side, there is a need whether the obligation to pay in such a form, which is often detrimental to it, for its liquidity, becomes necessary. The Ministry of Finance itself acknowledges in its justification that the financial consequences may be serious for suppliers. The granting of an exclusive initiative to the purchaser using a split payment mechanism may lead to an increase in the number of cash transactions, of course within the limits applicable in this respect, and the bureaucracy of business-to-business relations. Uncertainty as to whether or not the purchaser will benefit from the split payment mechanism means that the supplier is deprived of the possibility of forecasting its financial situation and pursuing a rational financial policy. Currently, the turnover, as we know, often takes place without a written contract. Following the introduction of a split payment mechanism, the supplier may seek to formalise the contractual relationship with the buyer by concluding a written agreement in order to increase the predictability of its financial situation, its financial flows. Therefore, it should be considered whether it is appropriate to authorise the supplier directly at the stage of the contract to be able to expect a binding declaration from the purchaser whether or not he intends to use this option. This would eliminate one of the most important shortcomings of this regulation. The desire to exclude the right of the purchaser to use the split payment option may lead to stigmatisation of the trader in the market as a potential fraud, even if the trader has never committed fraud before, there is no fraud in the plans, but is simply forced to ensure that his financial situation is predictable in order to maintain liquidity. Paradoxically, however, such an effort may undermine the credibility of the supplier in the market, dissuading the buyer from entering into a transaction. Contrary to the claims of the Ministry of Finance, honest suppliers may not want to receive VAT payments, because the funds collected in this account are theoretically the funds owned by the supplier, but at the same time the resources which are heavily restricted. It should also be noted that the impact of the introduction of this institution will be better managed by larger actors with resources to benefit from expert advice and analysis and with greater potential to mitigate the negative impact on financial flows by obtaining external funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz club15 regarding the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws, print No 1864. I would like to present what will be the mechanism of split payments according to the proposed law. The buyer will transfer only the net amount to the seller's basic account and the calculated tax on goods and services, which is part of the gross amount, will be transferred to the special VAT account. And here I'm going to try to list the raised doubts about the bill. The use of split payment will limit access to funds frozen in the VAT account, thereby reducing the company's liquidity. The situation becomes particularly complicated for the buyer, for example. an excess amount will be transferred to the VAT account. There will be situations where bilateral commitments will be regulated in split payment mode in full, in part or in general. Which institutions will keep VAT accounts? Do banks and payment institutions have to carry them out? Here the question arises as to the extent to which they will be responsible for the collection of funds. Is the rate of the funds collected in the VAT account assumed? I will present some questions and comments that I have received as part of the drafting of my position on the bill. In a letter addressed to me by Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa on the impact of changes in VAT settlements on the activities of public administration and companies, I was informed that when the split payment mechanism is applied, the moment of collection of the tax is shifted for a moment of payment. Consequently, the implementation of the split payment model should in principle be linked to a change in the timing of the tax obligation and the deadline for payment of the supply tax and the provision of services covered by it at the moment of receipt of payment. With this mechanism, account must be taken of the cost of implementing the different options, it will be necessary to adapt the payment and accounting systems to the new needs. The completion of the tax system will benefit from the creation of an electronic invoice database. Tax offices should have a database of entities involved in activities that have the characteristics of tax fraud. Such a base would also protect honest entities from the danger of unwittingly entering into a transaction with such an entity. In the position sent to me by the Polish Petroleum Concerto Orlen, the company president informs me that the main advantage of the application of split payment over other mechanisms, among others. The reverse payment or central invoice register is the fact that it is a systemic, preventive and long-term solution. The split payment model will prevent abuse already at the transaction stage. The split payment mechanism should be considered as an institution influencing the sealing of the tax system and as an effective tool against VAT fraudsters. At this point, I will also use the opinion of the Chief Director of the Main Mining Institute, who presented me with problems in writing and pointed out difficult issues related to the settlement of tax on goods and services, which need to be improved. Here is the problem of time-consuming tax formalities. For example, the Institute prepares and sends two VAT and VAT-EU declarations on a monthly basis and a single control file. All this concerns the settlement of a single tax on goods and services, which, with a large number of documents, makes it necessary to devote a considerable amount of time to the preparation and reconciliation of data in order to draw up and submit a declaration to the tax office. It will also be a problem for large units to move away from the quarterly clearing system, which may also result in difficulties. Clear and transparent rules are also lacking. The existing VAT rules are often unclear, incomprehensible and require frequent use of tax rulings or court case law issued by tax chambers. Unfavourable way of deduction of VAT using the proportion of sales and the pre-ratio of sales. An entity such as an institute, which in the structure of revenue one third of its revenue is obtained from non-VAT subsidies, has lost the right to deduct VAT by 30% compared to the situation of 1 January 2016, resulting in an increase in operating costs, including the transfer of higher VAT in activities carried out to an unchanged extent and the absence of an increase in sales, etc., etc. Regarding the fact that the head of the IRS will have 25 days to pay back the excess VAT... An application for reimbursement to a VAT account will be able to be submitted by any clearing taxable person in a split payment system. Here we are talking about the money deficit on the Polish market, a multi-billion-dollar deficit, and this deficit hole will be enlarged even further. You know, there's a lot of comments. As much as you need to look at it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] support any amendments that will be tabled and consider whether this solution will really benefit the Polish State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u236	Dear Marshal, Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present the position of the club regarding the government draft law amending the act on tax on goods and services and some other laws. The purpose of the bill submitted is to stiffen the system of value added tax and to ensure greater stability of VAT receipts as well as to prevent tax avoidance. According to the proposed solutions, a new tool is to be introduced, so-called. split payment mechanism. This mechanism boils down to dividing the payments for the goods or services delivered into two amounts: net, paid by the purchaser to the account of the supplier or service provider, and the amount of tax to be entered in a separate VAT account. From this separate VAT account the taxable person will be able to pay the tax on goods and services as well as pay his VAT obligations to the tax office. The proposed solution assumes the buyer's voluntary principle in the application of the split payment mechanism. This also means that it can be used in a selective manner, i.e. not every invoice must be regulated using a split payment mechanism. It is the purchaser who decides which invoice he will pay using this mechanism and on which supplier he will apply it. It must be borne in mind that the purchaser's decision unfortunately affects the supplier of goods or the provider of services. The seller will be forced, and therefore obliged, to participate in this mechanism. The Ministry claims that the draft law provides for facilitations to encourage taxpayers to use the split payment mechanism. One of these facilitations is to be faster - i.e. within 25 days - VAT refund. However, let us remember that VAT is refunded within 25 days at the request of the taxable person. In such a situation, unfortunately, the Ministry misses the truth by referring to the additional benefit to the taxpayer resulting from the application of the split payment mechanism. Of course, the Ministry has provided for other mechanisms or facilitations for taxpayers using this mechanism. In my opinion, however, they do not compensate for the negative effects that may affect entrepreneurs. First of all, in this mechanism, the funds received for VAT due will not be used by companies for ongoing non-VAT settlement operations - including public-law debt operations; this was a call for many entrepreneurs to pay public-law claims from this account as well. Consequently, this law may lead to a reduction in the liquidity of companies. Thus, companies may have to bear additional costs associated with the need to borrow to cover liquidity losses or the loss of the management benefits of the available funds. Moreover, an obvious complication of the payment process and among others. the need to monitor the receipts for VAT own account and to make possible adjustments resulting from erroneous transactions will require an increase in the cash and time spent on accounting services. Let us also remember that companies will be forced to bear additional costs to adapt their IT and accounting systems. The Ministry assumes that, under certain circumstances, the taxable person will be able to benefit from the funds collected in the VAT account with the permission of the head of the tax office. However, the problem is that provisions on this issue can be issued within 60 days. Such a long period is clearly unsatisfactory for entrepreneurs. Despite these reservations, due to the fact that the proposed project aims to eliminate the VAT gap, the actual problem facing our financial system, the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u237	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws, namely 1864 and 1962. The Committee on Public Finance analysed the project, accepted several editorial amendments and adopted two substantive amendments which were not of great importance and decisive importance for the project. The amendments adopted concern the use of the electronic system for the correspondence of interested parties and the possibility for the holder of the bill of account to request the opening of more than one VAT account for the accounts held. Recalling the project's assumptions, it should be stressed that an additional mechanism is introduced in the VAT system, i.e. the split payment mechanism, which is, as my predecessors have already said, that the payment for the goods is divided into the net value of the sale paid by the buyer to the supplier's clearing account and the amount of VAT that is paid on a special account in a bank or cooperative credit and savings bank in Polish currency. The accounts according to this project do not require separate contracts: they will be settled on general terms, so without any additional fees and fees. The split payment mechanism is intended to ensure better transparency of VAT settlements and this is the main objective of this project. The proposal assumes - what is important and what should be underlined - the voluntary principle in the application of this mechanism by taxpayers and the tax authorities would not be able to access the account without the taxpayer's consent. On the other hand, there are numerous incentives for taxpayers to use the split payment mechanism. These incentives include: non-application to these taxable persons of penalties resulting from the VAT Act; the fact that the provisions on joint and several liability will not apply; the faster settlement of refunds of excess VAT or the non-payment of a higher amount of interest for late payment in certain cases of settlement. By keeping a separate VAT account, the taxable person will be able to demonstrate and prove that he is carrying out tax settlements with due care. I would say that this is quite an important argument to keep accounts through this special account. Unfortunately, liquidity problems can be a billing instrument for split payments, especially for small businesses. The discussed project contains very numerous technical solutions for the operation and operation of VAT accounts, with many limitations. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the introduction of a split payment mechanism with this separate VAT account will lead to restrictions on the ownership by businesses of their funds, and in these small ones may cause problems and liquidity disruptions, but there are also arguments regarding the transparency of the accounts and every time the tax authorities have documented to the tax authorities by the trader that the settlement is conducted carefully and reliably. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u239	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up again, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor. Question time - 1.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u240	Continuing, Mr Marshal, Minister, I would like to say that this draft split payment mechanism has no direct effect on the rise of tax revenues in the state budget. Therefore, my doubts are that the government is planning to receive such a large amount from the introduction of this mechanism. I say: a large amount, because it is somewhere there in 2022, an amount of PLN 9 billion. I'm questioning whether it could be that much to limit fraud. According to the analysis carried out by the European Union, the average VAT gap in the countries of the European Union amounts to 10 to 15 billion a year. It has also been estimated to be about this high for us. Today we have many laws of a cross-border nature to prosecute VAT crimes. My previous speaker at the PiS talked about some twisted amounts. This information is in favour of the European Union's analysis. And my question is, isn't there an overestimated income from the application of this mechanism? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u241	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As you know, VAT is a harmonised tax, which means that it is uniform throughout the European Union, and national law, which is adopted in the field of value added tax and VAT, must comply with the VAT Directive. You put in place a split payment mechanism as a general mechanism. Has the Ministry applied to the Council of the European Union for a derogation on the introduction of this mechanism into the Polish law on tax on goods and services? If there were, when and possibly when do you expect an answer? And if you didn't perform, what was the reason? Because surely our split payment mechanism is not the same as what the Czech Republic has introduced, because they have introduced this mechanism very pointlessly and very narrowly. In my opinion, Art. However, the 395 VAT Directive requires a derogation, i.e. a derogation by the European Union, to be introduced in the event of such a mechanism. I would ask you to explain in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u243	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u244	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We are the leader by introducing a solution for split payments, for Italy, for the Czech Republic and for Romania. This solution is relatively new. It causes, as all those who speak before me, a number of comments and doubts. One of the comments is the liquidity case. I would like to add an assessment of the client's creditworthiness, because in this respect no creditor will be able to indicate such a solution that there is access to funds, even in the case of collateral, i.e. power of attorney to dispose of funds in the bank account, when the client is not in a timely manner governs the obligations. That's one thing. Secondly, we talk as if the trader has only one account and now he has to open a second account to VAT alone. But entrepreneurs don't only have one bill. So what will it look like in terms of execution when he doesn't pay his suppliers' obligations? You say it's a panacea for the VAT gap, and you say it's a panacea for the VAT gap. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Law and Justice solutions for the size of this gap. It's just respect. In this respect, speaking of the budget surplus for September, when the year is not over, is not allowed. My last question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u245	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u246	...the country will shorten the deadline for VAT refund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u247	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! These actions will, of course, lead to a situation where they will be frozen in these VAT accounts of huge amounts. Unfortunately, Poland is not such a developed country that we have access to unlimited amounts of money on the market. Therefore, the freezing of such amounts will actually create a situation where these financial flows can be significantly smaller and companies may have problems. Another point is that the analysis shows that the costs of introducing additional accounts for entrepreneurs who decide on this double payment form are estimated at almost PLN 2 billion. This is related to changes in information systems, to the operation of these accounts. Of course, you can't presume how many of these accounts are going to be, because if it's going to be a sure thing, then we're not going to be able to decide. However, I have a question: Will not banks which will bear such a high cost of maintaining these accounts do so that these bills will be interest-free? And the question is, will these bills be interest-bearing, or will they not be interest-bearing? Because if the banks want their money back, they're not gonna pay the bills. And what's the effect? Banks lose, entrepreneurs lose, who earns? He's gonna earn as much money as ever from the PiS government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u249	Thank you. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u250	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Minister, but also the whole government, for fighting the VAT gap effectively through efficient action. There's been a lot of that. This is, for example, a road transport monitoring system or a single control file, all the things that are currently being implemented. But it is also worth going back to the matter we are discussing. I am aware that the effects will not be visible after a week or after a month of operation and functioning of this law. I would like to ask the Minister about the effects of this law in the future. What expected effects for the state budget will be visible for the fight against the VAT gap and to what extent will the VAT amount be used by Poles in the state budget? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u251	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Paweł Gruza.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u252	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for all the comments in this first part and some questions to this law. All your comments were analysed by us at the stage of the preparation of this law. None of these comments is taken in any way by the Ministry of Finance as going beyond what was analysed and considered. This project seems to be the best possible compromise of business, economy and fiscal interest. It is clear that, by the very nature of the split payment mechanism, there must be some restriction on the right to dispose of the funds collected in that account. Otherwise, the split payment mechanism would not be itself, it would not carry out those basic functions which were provided for in the European Commission's 2010 documents, where this mechanism was outlined. With regard to the issue of derogations in the European Union, we are in dialogue with the European Union, with the Commission. It is necessary to distinguish between the draft currently under consideration, where we have confirmation by the European Commission that it does not require a derogation... [[Voice from the room: Officially.]] On the other hand, if we extend its operation to mandatory settlements in a split payment mechanism for specific sectors, we need a derogation for these specific sectors. At least today there is such a state of knowledge, and in such a dialogue we are with the European Commission. As regards the issue of effects and whether our OSRs are overestimated or overestimated and how we are supposed to deal with the effects of this law, I would like to say that this law is part of a series of major structural and legislative changes related to VAT sealing. The first thing, of course, was the electronicization of the JPK, which is that entrepreneurs - the biggest ones - submit the JPK monthly to the IRS. We extend this to all entrepreneurs, we add some functionality in a short time and we will have so-called. the central register of invoices. These are things known in Europe. This is the first element. The second element is the STIR-owska Act, i.e. the IT system of the clearing house, which is to supply the treasury with data about financial flows, so that behaviorally it can be analyzed and invented even predictively carousels before they even bring money abroad. Another element will be the split payment, which has a different effect. It has e.g. also the effect of protecting the interests of the trader and safeguarding the market against unfair competition and unfair VAT taxpayers. These are very difficult to estimate the results of individual components of this structure. There are also indirect effects, e.g. such as economic development or the fact that, as we can see, after sealing Orlen fuels has income and can invest. Where are these revenues and where are these investments for the last 8, 10 years? These are the costs of VAT fraud today unquoted and it is difficult to quantify for the future the profit for the economy, not for the fiscal, contrary to what is said here from this parliamentary tribune, the profit for the economy due to the sealing of the system and the level playing field for entrepreneurs. These things are very difficult to quantify and the whole system must unfortunately be assessed as a whole as a source of state revenue and VAT sealing. As far as credit is concerned, these measures, if it is not necessary to use them for VAT obligations, will constitute assets of the trader, will be released in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Act and will be available to the bank bailiff or non-bank bailiff. As regards the deadline for VAT reimbursement, I would like to remind you that Poland is in a good European average, and I will even say that we are returning more quickly than many European countries, those with more mature: administrations, jurisdictions and fiscals. As regards interest rates, the rate of the VAT account is directly linked, in accordance with the provisions of this project, with the interest rate of this leading account. So there's no arbitration on interest. As regards the general remark concerning the freezing of money on the VAT account, I will repeat once again that this is an immanent feature of the split payment mechanism. We've got mechanisms to mitigate this effect. First of all, VAT can be prepaid and you can get a discount account. This is the first thing that this money isn't lying around and wasting away. Secondly, you can pay your counterparties for this VAT. And these are the elements that mythize in legislative form. In an operational form, there will be a programme of loans, restructuring loans to improve its liquidity, to improve the business' economic capacity from one of the state-owned banks 100 percent, and this programme already dedicated synonymously to entrepreneurs who present their problem will be addressed. The details will be presented soon. In our view, however, the sum of these solutions entitles us to introduce this mechanism, especially in the voluntary version. And here I would like to stress once again that if an entrepreneur does not want to use this mechanism, he declares it to his customers and these customers simply decide whether they are trading with this counterparty or not. This is a left-over market game, business decisions. On the other hand, if the taxpayer wants to strictly protect his interest in the risk of being involved in the merry-go-round, he will be able to benefit from this mechanism and protect himself from the negative consequences of these events. So I think the project deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u253	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Piotr Uściński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I listened with interest to this discussion. Most of the arguments that have emerged here have appeared on the committee before. The Minister, at both the committee meeting and now, has responded perfectly to your substantive reservations. Thank you for this debate, which was essentially very constructive. Thank you for the amendments tabled on behalf of the committee. Of course, we will try to consider these amendments in the committee in a moment. I also thank the opposition for its basically constructive approach, except perhaps the Civic Platform. You are one, sir. Tell your colleagues to think about it. Consider whether you are afraid that the budget will continue to grow, and you are afraid of the next success of the government. After all, it will be Poland's success. Or are you fighting for the business of crooks... [[What nonsense?]] ...who, in your day, carried billions out of the state budget? I call on you to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u255	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u256	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Minister! Is the definition of a special bank account foreseen in banking law? How will the trader be informed about the VAT account balance? Will an unregistered trader as a VAT payer also have a split payment account from 1 April 2018? Will the enforcement of obligations be carried out by the tax office of the trader's VAT account?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u257	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of items 8 and 9 of the agenda: 8. Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Government's draft law amending the Budget Act for 2017 (prints No. 1946 and 1986). 9. Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 (prints No. 1944 and 1983). I would like to ask Mr Sasin to present the report of the committee in print 1986.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the Budget Act for 2017, Parliamentary Printing No. 1946 and 1986. On 24 October 2017, the Government of the Republic of Poland passed to the Sejm a draft law amending the Budget Act for 2017. The first reading of this project took place on 27 October this year. After the Sejm's failure to accept the motion to reject the draft law at first reading, the draft was adopted in accordance with Article. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 and 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and individual parts of the draft were sent to the relevant Sejm committees to submit to the Committee on Public Finance positions containing proposals, opinions or proposals for amendments, together with justification. The draft budget law has been examined by the Committee on Public Finance and the result of this work is a report in print 1986, accompanied by one minority request. This minority request concerns the reduction of expenditure by PLN 980 million for radio and television activities to increase expenditure in Part 46: Health for highly specialised services and increases for health professionals in Part 24: Culture and the protection of national heritage. The Commission could not accept the proposed amendment, since without amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare, it is not possible to allocate funds for salary increases. In addition, it was recalled that the funds for salary increases were secured by the National Health Fund in connection with the provisions of the Act on minimum salaries of PLN 17 billion. The work of the Committee on Public Finances on the bill took place on 7 November this year, when the committee considered its own budgetary parts and the opinions of nine other parliamentary committees. The opinions of the Sejm committees on the sections of the budget considered were positive. Only six amendments to Annex 1 were notified to the draft law amending this year's budget - expenditure from which the Commission for Public Finance adopted five. The Commission has also accepted legislative amendments concerning the textual part. In the context of the amendments adopted, it should be pointed out that the Committee on Public Finance has accepted all the amendments tabled by the chairman of the committee, as well as the amendment tabled by the Committee on Culture and Media, and it should be noted that these were amendments to which a representative of the government expressed a positive opinion. Thus, the first amendment adopted concerned the reduction of expenditure in Part 15 in respect of the Ministry of Justice and several appeals courts for a total amount of PLN 140 million for the increase of property expenditure in Part 88: Common organisational units of the prosecutor's office for the purchase of real estate for the National Public Prosecutor's Office at its seat. The reduction in expenditure in Part 15 was related to savings reported by the Ministry of Justice and appeals courts. These savings concerned various current and property expenses, as well as those planned for pensions of retired judges and family allowances. Thanks to these saved measures, it will be possible to improve the conditions of operation of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. It should be recalled that this office has not had its own seat for years, and now the annual expenditure of the prosecutor's office on renting the building amounts to about PLN 9 million per year and raises doubts from an economic point of view. The prosecution cannot modernise this building and adapt it to its own needs and extended tasks, including in particular the fight against tax fraud. It should also be added that the Committee on Justice and Human Rights has also given a positive opinion on the Minister of Justice's proposal to provide funding for the acquisition of a new seat for the National Public Prosecutor's Office. The second amendment accepted by the committees reduced the current expenditure of the budgetary units in Part 21: Maritime economy by 723 000. PLN intended to increase in Part 69: Inland navigation of investment and repair expenditures concerning the Westerplatte II floating set, which is the equipment of the newly created - in 2017 the Inland Navigation Technology Institute in Wrocław. The third amendment adopted concerned changes in part 24: Culture and protection of national heritage consisting of a reduction of PLN 75 million in grants included in Chapter 92 195: Other activities - and an increase in property expenditure in the same chapter by PLN 43 million and property expenditure by PLN 32 million in the chapter on teaching activities. The increase in property expenditure under this amendment concerns the regulation of issues related to the acquisition of the collections of the former technical organisation museum in Warsaw for the established National Technology Museum, the purchase of an eastern farm adjacent to the Wilanowski park at the King John III's Palace Museum in Wilanów, the purchase of a historical hospital facility on the street. Siennej 60 in Warsaw for the purposes of the Warsaw ghetto museum and the purchase of the Lubomirski Palace at 3 Lithuanian Square in Lublin for the purpose of the building of the created museum of eastern lands, i.e. the so-called. It's a museum of limits. This also applies to property expenses arising from the need to finance cultural investments operating in the area of films under the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage or through them co-financed and related to the development of the Polish film market and film culture and property expenses resulting from the need to co-finance investments of artistic universities operating in the area of film and film culture. This amendment does not detail the amounts of expenditure for individual investments due to ongoing negotiations in certain purchases. The fourth amendment adopted also concerned the transfer of part-time expenditure 24: Culture and the protection of national heritage. This amendment reduced current expenditure in the general government offices and central government bodies by 4592 000. PLN intended to increase expenditure on financing of activities and development of museums in the amount of PLN 3 million and to support the activities of public archives in the amount of PLN 1592 thousand. PLN, including for the purchase of IT equipment with a value of up to 3.5 thousand. zł. The fifth amendment adopted consisted of changes under Part 20: Economy. This amendment reduced the expenditure of the current budget units for the amount of PLN 1 million for the remaining activities intended to increase expenditure on the special grant to the Institute for Market Research, Consumption and Conjugation in connection with the granting of its status as a State research institute. On 31 October this year. A Regulation of the Council of Ministers on the conversion of the Institute for Market, Consumption and Conjugation Research into a State Research Institute was signed, which enters into force on the day following its publication. The Institute in the new formula will carry out important tasks commissioned by the research institute, among others. monitoring of service companies in Poland, examining the export potential of Polish industrial enterprises, preparing regional policy models or developing state strategies in part of Polish Polish business investment. The implementation of these tasks will also involve the employment of new people. I already mentioned at the beginning one amendment which did not receive the approval of the committee and was presented for consideration as a minority request. During the committee meeting, questions were asked, concerns raised by some of the members of the committee concerning, in particular, the possibility of using the financial resources allocated by the end of the year, as well as the legal basis for making certain expenditures. That's the last amendment I was talking about. The questions were answered by government representatives, which in most cases resolved these doubts, although some of the members of the committee, especially the opposition, in these matters which I had just mentioned, retained these doubts, which was later expressed in the votes held. In accordance with the wishes of the Members of the Committee, part of the answer to the questions will be forwarded in writing at a later date. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the draft law amending the budget law for 2017, together with the positions forwarded by the competent committees and after receiving an opinion on the compatibility of the project with European Union law, requests that the attached draft law be adopted by the High Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u259	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Maria Zuba to present the report of the committee in print 1983.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I submit to the High House a report on the work of the committee on 7 November on the draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. The legal solutions proposed by the government in this project make it possible to finance the implementation adopted by the government, in agreement with Poles, of a programme to improve the social situation and economic development in our country. During the committee's work, three amendments were tabled to the government proposal. Following their discussion, the amendments were adopted by a large majority. These amendments increase the transparency of the rules and improve the spending of funds. Amendment 1 provides for an amendment to paragraph 1. Article 1 16a. This article provides the possibility to provide the National Radio and Television Council with compensation of PLN 980 million for the proceeds of subscription fees lost in 2010 and 2017 for the dismissal of persons, inter alia. those who are over 75 years of age, disabled, receiving low pensions. The full catalogue of exempt persons shall be governed by the Act on subscription fees. The government proposes that these funds be used to carry out a public service mission by public broadcasting units. The Commission's positive opinion leads to the replacement of the expression "expenditure' by the expression "costs'. Where public service broadcasting undertakings carry out public-funded tasks and settle according to an accrual-based, cost-based method, the proposed provision needs to be amended. Amendment 2 concerns Article. 16c project to create a special-purpose reserve for the provision of health prevention offices in schools. An amount of 88 217 000 was provided to ensure improvements in the quality and availability of healthcare services. zł. Local government units will be able to apply for a grant to create offices in schools for which they are an authority to the competent voivodeship. A grant to equip the health prevention cabinet with equipment in schools subject to ministers will be granted by the competent minister and other public schools will be awarded by the voivode at their request. The amendment to this amendment excludes the application of Article. 170 Public Finance Act, which sets out the deadlines for changing the amounts of special grants to tasks commissioned by local government units. Amendment 3 also excludes the application of Article in 2017. 170 to the amount planned for educational services in part 85 of the voivod's budgets. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I request that these amendments be adopted in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u261	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice have the floor. [[How many minutes?]] Five minutes. [[You're a very economical man, Mr. Marshal.]] It's not my call.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to stress that we welcome both the draft law on amending the budget law for 2017, as well as the law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2017 and the amendments tabled. Members of the Law and Justice appreciate the validity of the amendments made to both the Law on the creation of legal bases, the specific arrangements for implementing the Budget Law and the Law on the Budget, with the exception of a minority proposal. It must be made clear that the amendments proposed for both laws show a flexible and rational fiscal policy of the State. First of all, because during 2017, as so far, we have managed to generate budget savings without prejudice to the tasks performed, i.e. we have done the tasks with less money. Moreover, the money saved will still be used this year for important social goals for the economy, serving the family, for health and culture. Here we talked about various aspects of these changes and these expenditures. It should be noted that the size of the budget deficit as a result of these transfers is not changing, but the structure of the budget expenditure itself is changing. I would just like to point out more clearly than it has sounded so far, that this money is not just for consumption or overeating, as someone might have defined, public funds, because investing in the health of children, in protecting the health of Poles is considered, and there is no doubt, to be very serious, maybe the most important investment. Furthermore, I would also like to stress that here we are dealing with spending an additional amount of PLN 100 million for the Polish Investment and Trade Agency, which is to support not only investments but also promotion of the Polish economy. The promotion of the Polish economy, the promotion of Polish exports is a priority task, because it is export activity, as we know, that many countries in the world owe their huge success. So far the promotion of Poland, promotion of Polish brands, promotion of Polish export has not been appreciated by the predecessors. So... [[And Milan?]] This is noted by the current government and there is a clear respect for this. You couldn't even use Euro 2012 to promote the Polish economy. The proof of this is that when the European Commission asked Polish entrepreneurs two years ago if they would like to use the "Made in Poland" sign, of course they were in favour of "Made in EU" because they thought they were more recognizable. Recent studies show that among the countries that are most recognizable, Poland is not in the first 20 countries despite its enormous economic and tourist potential. Therefore, expressions of appreciation should be addressed to the Ministry of Development, which takes decisive steps in this direction, and here we have an expression of this will to act through the funding of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency. Thank you for your attention. I stress once again that we support all the amendments made to both laws when reading in the Committee on Public Finance, with the exception of the one we have been talking about, and we will, of course, vote in favour of these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u263	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u264	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! The Civic Platform Club is in favour of rejecting the draft law amending the budget for 2017 and the around budget law. Why? You didn't do anything. During your parliamentary work, you did not try to improve this project. It is not known what the deficit will be, because in the case of the Eurostat report you indicated that there will be PLN 51.2 billion in the deficit. This year the public debt exceeded 1 trillion PLN. So we are the leader in increasing debt. In 2008 and 2015 we were the leader of growth in the European Union, showing that we can create new jobs. You had a chance to give extra money on the roads. You didn't. You gave me TV. You had a chance to give these roads 200 million, because your program itself says - 1 billion PLN for 2017. There's 800 million. You had the chance to show that you wanted to invest this money, because investment for 2017 is the lowest compared to gross domestic product. You are not using European money. Two, then. I would like to say this: you have not shown the calculation of the arguments that support the transfer of money to the public media and the way in which they are separated. I've asked for it many times. You are trying to give money to the media and say that they will use it because there is a separate bill, but you have already given TV 800 million credit in July and there is 160 million PLN of debt. The transfer of PLN 88 million, as Mrs Masłowska said, to dental offices, to shopping for couches will not improve the health of Polish children. You could have, and you had a chance to get treatment, to protect your health. You could have introduced such a provision into the around budget law so that those rules could be introduced. About that? 16 dentobuses? Isn't that a shame? We were hoping that if you were already tempted to revise the budget, it would be serious, reliable and decent. There was a strike at that time. You've had an opportunity to show off the unexploded measures, to give the money you've blocked, to health care, to residents. You've blocked 7 billion, so you're not spending that money. And that's why we're trying, first of all, to say that this is a bad budget, that we're against it, because if you don't use that money, they're going to reduce the deficit, reduce the debt, and they're not going to work for other generations. But we make at least two amendments, also an amendment to the around budget law. We want to allocate the money to a special reserve for the remuneration of doctors, interns and resident doctors, but also for one purpose, small money, because the state has deleted it, for the treatment of women with a mutation of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes for the refund of double mastectomy treatments with simultaneous breast reconstruction. What we're trying to say is that it's a 100,000 problem. Polek, it's a modest 30 million. But if you don't want it, we're offering you a choice. We want to put on roads, on county and communal roads in the scope of your program, but also on voivodeship roads. Once again, we insist: give money for the treatment of women, it is indeed a serious disease, and the state is such a trifle that you will give on public television, nor will you improve the health of Poles, nor investment, nor the Polish economy. You're saying you're gonna get a promotion. After all, Poland has been promoting itself for many years, starting with the Expo in Milan. You have to remember that and not say stupid things in this room because it's unreliable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, Mr. Marshal, as I have pointed out, the Platform Club is applying for the rejection of both projects, but also amendments which, if adopted, will certainly improve the health situation, and local authorities will be pleased with this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u265	Thank you, Member. Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz,15 will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We talked about this project. Last time was two weeks ago. I'm glad the government jury's full. I also greet the Vice-Ministers. It's about money again. It's about mandatory presence. Mrs Law and Justice said that the budget deficit is unchanged. She said with such a calm voice that nothing changes, it's the same. It's the same, so it's written 60 billion backwards, which is 20%. State revenue. Just because your voice didn't shake, I'm a little surprised. Most of all, I think, we're all affected by this change in the transfer of a billion zlotys to public media. Like I said at the time, if the public media were really... [[Mission.]] ...this mission, if these public media were the people, if they were the general election of this president, if it weren't the political media, then maybe we'd look at this case a little differently, but it's strictly here. political action, you transfer almost PLN 1 billion to the media, which unfortunately is difficult to call public. There's another question. The legal design of this record is, I think, a little flawed. It turns out that you are transferring PLN 1 billion due to the fact that there was a relief saved and there was no influence on television. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a pattern and this pattern already included this relief. The calculation of these subscription fees, which is made each month or every year, already covered this reduction. Now you're taking 1 billion zlotys out of the budget and giving TV. I'm just asking what law and on what grounds. Further along this path, we can come to the conclusion that, in that case, since there were and are exemptions for different people, e.g. in public transport in different municipalities, it may also be necessary for these municipalities, as there are exemptions and reliefs, to provide additional money now. You take this money out of the state budget and you give TV because there were less influences on TV because it was a relief, but this relief has been since the beginning of the pattern, but at the same time you do not change the rates that are written, i.e. those people who were paying today feel in some way deceived by such a record. We have tabled an amendment transferring this PLN 1 billion from public television to health services, and specifically to highly specialised medical services. These are benefits that include, among others, benefits. cardiological procedures in children under 18 years of age, heart failure, chest aorta, infant birth defects, radiotherapy or kidney, liver, pancreas, heart, lungs and cornea transplantation. Corners so important and so much needed to watch public television. I think it's going to be the first thing that needs to be done, and then you can enjoy TV. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! It was supposed to be as beautiful as it always was. Last month was supposed to be a surplus of 5 billion, I already told you that. This month it turns out that it is much lower and at the end of the year it is to be a deficit of PLN 51 billion. [[30.]] And that's the problem with our country. Once again, it turned out that we cannot talk about any healing of public finances, that Poland is still in debt at an indecent rate, that you are planning for the following years horrendously high deficits and that we will have huge problems at the moment when the crisis will come, because we are not in any way ready for this crisis, that you are in debt the country fastest in the history of free Poland. Last year it was a 100 billion increase in public debt, this year it will be a deficit around PLN 40.50 million, for next year you planned another deficit of 40 million. That's kind of one problem. The second is that you are chasing the money of Poles to the left and right, without care at all how this money is spent. You can give the best example of the last hours. It is about the advertising promoted in Poland by the Ministry of Health. It's better not to judge it in artistic terms, because I think children in kindergarten would come up with a more interesting, more inspiring advertising spot. However, it should be said directly how you could spend the 2,700,000 you spent on the production of this spot, helping Polish marriages to have children. It's enough to convert it to in vitro treatments that could be financed with that money. In the hope that on average 15,000 will have to be spent on such an operation. zł, 180 marriages for the money you spent on this insane advertisement that really makes Polish people laugh, not encourage them to have children, could have children, could become parents, could feel what it means. No, it's better to throw money in the mud - 2,700 thousand. zł for the production itself plus those for emissions. I don't know what the budget for this ad is. But in the same way, you spend your money exactly in many areas. The best example of throwing money in the mud is nearly PLN 1 billion allocated to support propaganda in the performance of television and public radio. You just promoted $800 million for Jack Kurski's TV loans. If the president can't rule, doesn't know how to make money, doesn't know how to manage television well, so that he can make a relative income and earn money, then just let him leave the country. Not doctors, but Jacek Kurski. This budget you put forward, this amendment for 2017, as I said at first reading, is completely unacceptable to us, for example, because we do not see a reason why it would suddenly be necessary to support public television, which does not fulfil the missionary role, but plays the role of the propaganda tube of the government. Different tweets like that the topic of debate on regional television will be feral by total opposition, show what you really pay these horrendously high bills for. It's for tweets like that, and for such topics in the media, whether it's regional or state. This is Goebbels propaganda in your performance and you will be ashamed of it until the end of your parliamentary service. A similar example is 900 million spent on saving unprofitable mines. Long ago they should be reformed so that Poles do not have to, not only that coal poisons them, pay for maintaining inefficient positions. They should be privatized and work for themselves. In this context, everything I have already said and other aspects of this revision of the club A modern proposal to reject this project also at second reading. But since we do not think that our proposal to reject it will be positively considered by you, we also make amendments to the second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u269	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the committee's report on the budget law and around the budget. These are the 1946, 1944 and 1983 prints. In the course of the work of the Committee on Public Finances, several changes have been made to the projects in question, including those of substance. According to the positions presented at both the first reading of the projects and their analysis at the committee's meeting, the most controversial was the funding of the public media. The mere conclusion that these expenses are compensation for the loss of revenues from subscription fees is highly unauthorised, and the lack of finance is due even to poor management of the public pennies and failure to carry out the public service mission. Moreover, the media are obliged to do so, and in fact they are only used for propaganda purposes. The amended law introduced an amendment - this is a valid amendment - reducing expenditure in the judiciary with the use of funds for property expenditure in the prosecutor's office, i.e. for the purchase of real estate for the Public Prosecutor's Office in the amount of PLN 140 million. In the original version of the draft amending the 2017 budget, many controversy raised the creation of a new research centre for history - we already know that under the name of the Institute of Solidarity and Courage - for the amount of PLN 75 million. And as a result of the amendments, another one will be created - the State Institute for Consumption and Conjugation Market Research, for the amount of PLN 1 million. None of these institutions actually exist today, and one month before the end of the year it needs to be strengthened so financially. The same is true of the Minister of Culture's quite extensive proposal to buy real estate at the end of the year, with the mystery of both the subject matter of the purchase and the amount of funds allocated to it. The question is perhaps rhetorical: Is this how projects should be prepared for debate and voting in the High House? Besides, we had the same situation last year. With regard to the basic proposals contained in these projects, as well as the amendment tabled by the Members of the opposition, I stress that no funds have been found to increase the budget of the Minister for Health, the funds for doctors, and health security should be a priority today in the financing of tasks. Although I am already in doubt today, watching a video about rabbits, which is supposed to be an incentive to procreation, for 3 million PLN, and not more than a month ago we had pointless billboards for 19 million PLN vilifying Polish courts. And these are examples of public management of a penny under Law and Justice. It is difficult to understand the drastic reduction of resources for seniors in the revised budget. I will remind you that PLN 4.5 billion is deducted from the CRUS and the CRUS, but it is also deducted from special grants, including the Government's programme for the social activity of older people - almost PLN 1 million, even medicines have been reduced by PLN 50 million and many, many others. And, of course, these controversial expenses related to the fossil economy. A large part is, you know, compensation, but 90 million is for restructuring, and it is certainly only for mining in Silesia. In that case, I ask whether this will not be the case for the competition of the mines in Lublin. These measures for restructuring the Śląskie mines are not the only amount, there are already several million zlotys transferred for these purposes. In conclusion, I will say that the proposals for changes to the budget for the current year are an expression [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prosperity, they're unwarranted. The proposals do not show the care and economy of the rulers, do not meet the expectations of the most needy, so they are not for protection...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u271	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u272	...health and the elderly. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will not support such an amendment of either the budget law or the around budget law. [[Applause]] [[It's not a loss.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u273	Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! I present my position on behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle on the reports of the Commission for Public Finances on the draft law amending the Budget Act for 2017 and on the government bill amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. It's obvious to us. The amendment of the budget law is necessary as the amount of State income has changed. On the part of the opposition, questions are raised about the reason for this correction in recent months of the year. The surprise of this part of the opposition was easy to understand, eight years of its government and its financial policy in fact consisted of one total proposal: all Polish taxpayers' money was spent long before the end of the financial year, permanently borrowing other loans, even at the expense of paying the most expensive credit lines, and if there was still no money, selling for priceless further components of the Polish national property, which for the next 8 years were done to the detriment of Poland and Poles without being remembered. The nervous reactions of the total proposal to propose only debt and selling out in the most obvious way come from the fact that we are all witnessing such a management of the public penny today, where not only do we need to borrow more credits to debit the next generation of Polish people, but also, as it turns out, we do not need to sell out further national assets. The amendment of the Budget Act for 2017 is very good news for Poland and Poles. After 8 years of government of the Minister of Finance, who, despite debt and sale of Poland, could only say that there is no and there will be no, we have today such a host of Polish finance, deputy prime minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who does not indebted, does not sell out, and finds money for such help for millions of Polish families, which was unimaginable for the rulers of the Polish government and PSL. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Laudation.]] In view of the changes in the budget law, it is impossible not to address, in general, the allegations put forward by the total proposal. We should ask: What exactly is this about? After all, we are dealing with the situation of having more money in our country's budget than expected. So is it the better budgetary situation of our country that triggers further levels of aggression of total opposition? After all, if someone reacts with dissatisfaction, anger and aggression to the fact that Poland has more money... [[Where's more?]] ...it is to the greatest extent justified to ask whether the improvement in the financial situation of Poland is an evil that needs to be combated. What's with the polemics? Does the total proposal have to offer only total opposition to everything? If the improvement of the budgetary position is dissatisfied, one can ask whether the purpose of people who react to it is the good of Poland. The Free and Solidarnia Circle welcomes the proposed amendments to the Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u275	Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u276	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! In addition to the statements made by the Member, the previous speaker, we cannot go without an explanation. And I wouldn't like to agree with you on a lot of things, because in black and white, you can see how we owe each other. Polish debt exceeded PLN 1 trillion. Question: "Is it true?" PLN 1 trillion. If you pay VAT, you say there is a lot of it. Yes, in absolute figures, but in an indicator that says that we have so much VAT collected for the gross domestic product, nothing has changed. So if nothing has changed, it means that in favor, not at all what the government is doing, it is working economically. So the Pole, the craftsman, the shoemaker and everyone else works on the gross domestic product, those who pay VAT pay because they have more orders. It is therefore difficult to agree that the situation is milk and honey. If we were to do, seal and reduce the deficit, if we didn't owe ourselves, how we owe ourselves, we could talk about the direction being right. I would like to say one thing: a very bad amendment [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is an amendment which puts the expenditure of the Minister of Culture into one bag, because it does not show what particular purposes, and therefore gives flexibility and freedom, and the Sejm loses on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u277	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u278	And one more thing... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u279	No, no, thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform. [[I would like to ask Mrs Butterwska not to at least comment on how I speak.]] [[That's what you say when I say it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Honestly, if I had to choose between total opposition and total thoughtlessness, I would choose total opposition. [[Applause]] If I had to choose between a total proposal and a total lie, I would also choose a total offer. Speaking of what I just heard here. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I have two questions, and I think they're relevant. First. When it was introduced, the catalogue of discounts in subscription fees was extended, or was there any record in this bill that said that these exemptions were to be compensated for from the budget? Because if you don't, I wonder what character this 7-year-earned compensation of PLN 1 billion is. From now on, has every company that is going to be in financial trouble and, at one time, being on the market, been subject to some kind of relief and relief, had the right to demand billions of zloty from the budget? [[Applause]] That's the first question. The second question is this: in 2016 all revenue from the budget is PLN 750 million. If we now add PLN 1 billion to the proceeds from the subscription, unless this has been withdrawn, I ask you how much money this television will have and how the country in the next election year, not in 2018, only in 2019, will you maintain [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such a high level of public television funding? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u281	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The revision of the budget for this year really surprises me with the lack of meaning for us Poles. You claim that there are savings, but you do not allocate them to protect the health of Poles, which should be a priority, but to propaganda television, even though we have recently allocated 800 million for this purpose, and its ratings again decreased by 1 million. Now you've invented the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude to transfer 75 million of our money there. After all, it is a duplication of tasks of institutions already existing: IPN, PAN, ECS in Gdańsk, the council of archives or museums. I wanted to say that so much money is the annual budget of the Polish Academy of Sciences. On Tuesday, the government signed a contract with Geotermia Toruń for PLN 19.5 million, for Fr Rydzyk, and all this in the face of continuous increases. You want to make short-term profits so it's a party policy for the PIS, but who's worried about what's gonna happen in December afternoon? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u283	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u284	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is a little bit in the context of what one of the ladies said about the wonderful discoveries in this budget. I don't know where she saw it. I must say that the question also concerns the statements of Deputy Prime Minister Moravian, the statements of many ministers, various government representatives who said that the government budget deficit for the current year will be once. 30, another time 40 million, today we're talking 51. In my opinion, today we are debating the most important document submitted to the High House because the budget law is being amended. It says that the government budget deficit will amount to 59 345 500 thousand, or almost PLN 60 billion. Nothing's changed. So what I'm saying is, why all the discrepancies? Where's the surplus coming from all of a sudden? Why should there be a lower deficit if it is not in this document? There's no confirmation, and it's incomprehensible to me. If the most important document we are debating in the Sejm is about PLN 60 billion, then let us use this value. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u285	Thank you. Mr Piotr Uruski, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u286	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm asking you a question for the Vice Minister of Justice. Could you tell us more about the amount of PLN 140 million which is to be allocated this year as part of the budget for the purchase of real estate for the National Public Prosecutor's Office? For my part, I am pleased that the infrastructure of the prosecutor's office, which has been neglected for years, is finally being taken care of. I would like to thank the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobrze, and the national prosecutor, Bogdan Święczkowski, as well as Minister Michal Wójcik, responsible for the budget. The Public Prosecutor's Office is one of the most important institutions in the State, representing the strength and effectiveness of the State apparatus. It is a good thing that the transfer of budgetary resources offers an opportunity to increase the stock of real estate to the prosecutor's office. I'm asking you to answer my question about the need to buy real estate for the National Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u287	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! The revision of the 2017 budget is very dynamic. Amendments with multi-million budgetary implications are tabled at all stages of the legislative process. This gives the impression of a complete lack of respect for public money. It is important who makes the amendment, and much less important whether the purpose of spending is thoughtful. It's a waste of time, and there's no doubt about it. At the same time, there is a lack of money for the most deprived. I have a question: Will the revision of the budget be provided before the holidays with funds for the so-called. 500+ for pensioners, whom Minister Rafalska has repeatedly promised this support? The press keeps writing about it, and other amendments are made every now and then. At the moment, it is not certain whether the funds have been secured for this purpose. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u289	Thank you. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to thank the government very warmly for the positive opinion and the adoption of the amendment, which has just been adopted in the framework of the draft changes to the 2017 budget. In Part 24: Culture and national heritage protection we are talking about the amount of PLN 75 million for property expenditure. It is very important that this amount will be used for the purchase of the Lubomirski Palace at the Lithuanian Square in Lublin. I'm very happy because this is where the museum of the East Cartoons, the museum of the Kress, will be built. As for the Museum of Kresów, this was one of the first speeches I made here from the Seym Hall. I tried to get the Museum of the Kresów to be built in Lublin. Thus, once again, thank you very much that this additional money for purchase from the University of Maria Skłodowska-Curie of the Lubomirski Palace in Lublin was found. This amount, as the Minister said in the committee, is about PLN 10 million for this purchase. Minister, since the end of the year is about to come, I would like to ask you, actually more so, to ensure that these funds are spent and that the palace is effectively purchased by the Treasury. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u291	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first thing, the appeal to the audience to stop watching TVP Info in large quantities, because it really hurts, it hurts your health. Young people already say you're as stupid as a belt on TVP Info. Don't be surprised that people stop paying their subscription, [[Applause]] Because for a good cause, public television is no longer public television. When you look at both information and publicity programmes, you get the impression that you're looking at advertising spots of Law and Justice, so the question is why it's not funded by grants to Law and Justice. Soon the Polish Radio will return to the historical term barker. You guys are great at spending money. I'd like to know what kind of money I'm paying for my performance they got rabbits in the health department ad, because that's interesting, too, because it's interesting what you're spending your money on. How much money will a friend of Mr Kurski's and his colleagues get, what's the extra bonus? If this is to be a reasonable spending of money - it is a situation where, instead of reducing the budget deficit, you spend such money on public media, which have long ceased to be public media - this is a complete misunderstanding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u293	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the amount that appeared in the bill, or 75 million PLN. This is a very large amount even for a multi-billion-dollar budget. I would like to remind you that not all institutions that are important for the functioning of the country have such large budgets, but that they want to allocate this amount to the planned research centre for historical research. Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, a draft law establishing a strange institution - the Institute of Solidarity and Courage appeared in the Sejm. I wanted to ask if you would like to allocate this 75 million PLN to an institution that does not yet exist, to an institution which the Sejm has not yet stated in the Act, because we are just proceeding on the draft law on this institute. Ladies and gentlemen! Is it okay that you don't have health care, you don't have to give 500+ to mothers or single parents, you don't have 500+ for those expenses that are important from the point of view of the life of Poles, and you have 75 million PLN to save this institution that doesn't exist yet? Is this a serious treatment of the state? Is this a serious budget treatment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this a cost-effective fiscal policy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u295	Thank you. You have the floor of Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Almost 1/3 of the proposed amount will be allocated to the recapitalisation of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the Polish Development Fund. Of course, all of this takes place under the dubious slogan of the implementation of the "Strategy for Responsible Development." I would like to ask: What exactly is this 3.5 billion PLN earmarked for? To make it easier, I will ask the question: Is it true that the Polish Development Fund intends to include shares e.g. in local companies, but not for the implementation of new investments, but for the holding of shares in municipal companies, which can already be said to carry out their tasks. These are water supply companies, this is a number of other companies. Of course, if the Minister or Minister is interested, which is precisely what I would like to say, I would like to say that many presidents from Law and Justice are preparing privatisation packages for their economic operators, they want to sell 20% of their shares and say publicly that the offer will be closed, addressed to specific investors, and as a desirable investor they state the Polish Development Fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have a classic question: If it's so good, why is it so bad? You have had a chance to go a little below the planned budget deficit this year, slightly in a noticeable sense, while throughout the year we have heard that it is good and at the end of the year it turns out that this deficit will be. And what's interesting is, it's big, it's powerful. What else is interesting is why this deficit is there. You are talking about the fact that the National Radio and Television Council should be provided with a subscription - overdue, decommitted, etc. So what's the subscription for anyway? After all, what is happening here today is the introduction of an additional tax, an additional tax because, since the budgetary revenues were so high, we could afford to reduce the deficit, which is not to indebt our children in the future, grandchildren who will never repay the debt that we are cooking here, and we have been cooking for many years now for previous governments. And now like this: you could reduce this deficit a little bit, go below the planned level, it doesn't, but it has to be elevated to the maximum level. In fact, since we could afford to have less spending from the state budget, and so that in some way these taxes would be lower - I'm not even saying that a percentage point, but maybe 0.1 percentage points - you didn't, you turned it up. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want everything to be as good as possible. Why is that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you have found a way to fund TVP, and you no longer have to worry about the subscription bill. I understand there's no idea how to provide a normal funding for public television, because the river of money is flowing. You said... You signal it, I understand that the Polish state is a very rich country. I wanted to remind you: in July - almost a billion, now - another billion. You're used to pushing even the most ridiculous idea in the Seym. A billion in one direction, a billion in the other way, for you, it's virtual money, you can see that. This is absolute wastefulness. Someday for these decisions, ladies and gentlemen, he will come to answer. I have a question: Isn't this public aid for a very badly managed company? This is a very badly managed company. Even your electorate is slowly laughing at it. And I want to tell you one thing: your electorate also thinks. Do something about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u301	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u302	As part of the revision of the amount of PLN 100 million to increase the capital of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency, I wanted to ask in this context whether the government built a strategy for promoting Polish companies abroad. If I don't get an answer right now, I'd be asking for written information. I hope that this stage of Poland's history, when we were promoted abroad with bubbles, and it was also a trap of farts, during the Polish Presidency, that went back to history. Another question. There is talk of budget deficits and so on. Is it true, Minister, that the budget deficit in 2009 was 99 billion PLN, 7.3% GDP, PLN 10 billion in 2010 and so on.? Is it true that we have increased health expenditure by PLN 10 billion compared to what our predecessors had, to a level of 84 plus 3 out of surplus, and next year it is going to be PLN 94 billion, which is PLN 20 billion more, than the previous government spent on health protection? Therefore, is it serious to present as a tragic situation in health care? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And such questions could be multiplied by a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u303	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year the public debt rose by nearly PLN 100 billion, this year you are making more than PLN 50 billion, next year you are planning more than PLN 40 billion. In total, in 3 years you will spend nearly PLN 200 billion more than you should. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, But how is there going to be a surplus if you find a billion on TVP? What does President Kurski want to do with this billion? Does he want to hire more people to write those crappy stripes on TVP Info? Does he want more investigative reporters whose sole task is to follow opposition politicians? [[Voice from the hall: New Year's Eve will organize.]] What is the surplus, if it has to be enough for Rydzyk, it has to be enough, 3 million, for some rabbit commercial and it has to be, 19 million, for the billboards on which the lying information was given? Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Where's the health care money? Where's the money for the helicopters that our army was supposed to fly long ago? There's no money. All that money's been eaten over. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u305	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 1 billion for Kurski was not enough, you still had to make 20 million PLN for Fr Tadeusz Rydzyk. You have no shame. There is no money for anything in Poland, but for the gift of the close surroundings of Law and Justice, people associated with the party of course money was found. In early 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management paid over PLN 26 million as compensation to the Lux Veritatis Foundation, but it all happened before the court's judgment, which aroused considerable controversy in the eyes of Poles. But it turned out to be too little for you and this year you decided Lux Veritatis, let's remind the foundation about. Tadeusz Rydzyk, i.e. people close to the law and justice environment, give another 20 million PLN. Really, this money could be spent much better on Poles. Why we carry out such projects through private foundations of people closely connected with the PiS environment, not by e.g. The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management? How does the State intend to control the appropriateness of spending this money and the compatibility of the project with its destiny? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u307	Thank you. Mrs Maria Zuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we receive instruction from the Civic Platform, and I would like you to become a little humble. Do you not remember how in 2013 you lacked money in the budget and then your Prime Minister Donald Tusk announced that the budget hole would be higher by PLN 24 billion? It was then that your determination and your vote decided that in order to remain in the debt regime 50% against the gross domestic product, you voted in favour of removing the first debt threshold. Do you not remember that at that time you introduced restrictions in the budget for PLN 8.5 billion? That was enough to take over PLN 3 billion from the Ministry of National Defence. I understand that today this situation, when the Government of Law and Justice gives Polish citizens the funds that have been spent and saved in the budget to be used this year, you take with nerves and resentment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But you should remember that your actions were really directed at stealing from Poles and taking their money. [[Applause]] [[That's what happened.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u309	Good. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Bartosz Marczuk. [[Because there's no one else.]] I have a request for ministers. We're a little late, so I'd like to ask for some time discipline.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer a question related to the so-called. 500+ for the pensioner, that's the question. Well, in 2017, there is no provision in the budget for such a provision. [[They were supposed to be.]] However, it is difficult to accuse the government that it does not care about the poorest pensioners, because, let me remind you, in March, the valorization of pension benefits caused the lowest pensions to rise to 1 000. zł. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No, it is not.]] Therefore, the percentage increase in these benefits is actually 12 and 13%. The same was true of social pensions - the valorization was also no lower than 10 PLN. So that's the year 2017. As far as 2018 is concerned, here, according to what my chief minister Elżbieta Rafalska, together with the Ministry of Finance, declares, everything depends on how the implementation of the Social Insurance Fund will look like, i.e. how his expenses will look. with reduced retirement age. Depending on how it will look, decisions will be made as to whether such a benefit, an extra supplement for pensioners, will appear in 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u311	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! A number of questions concerning the amendment of the Budget Act for 2017 concerned matters submitted by the Minister of Culture. So I'm going to start with TV. The allegations are that, on the one hand, as a state, we give too much money to television, and on the other hand, there is no legal basis for allocating such money. On the other hand, I would like to denounce these rumors, because, first of all, public television is public because it is financed by public money and pursues public objectives, which means that we have agreed that television has a whole catalogue of tasks that it must perform under the obligation of the State. The State must therefore ensure that these tasks are financed. These tasks are called a public mission. If in 2010 we introduced a whole range of reductions that led to the fact that the level of funding has significantly decreased - and today it is about 977 million PLN, that is almost as much as we put in the budget: 980 million PLN - if there is a situation that the Prime Minister of the Civic Platform government urges Poles not to pay their subscription, which started a very strong trend of leaving Poles from paying their subscription... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...then we have to ask ourselves how we want to keep the public media if we want to keep the public media, because I feel that, many times, I have been so impressed by the debates conducted in the Parliamentary Committees that we need public television, including. so that she can carry out public tasks. Public tasks are those tasks which are not carried out by commercial media and which do not pay off to commercial broadcasters, commercial broadcasters, e.g. These are tasks related to the dissemination of high culture. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Martyniuk.]] These are also tasks that very rarely appear in commercial media, because advertisers do not pay for advertising during such programs or pay very little because such programs are less attractive. On the other hand, we have a duty to direct the programme to all citizens, not just so-called. a commercial group, that is, the one to which advertising is addressed. We cannot live under the dictatorship of advertisers who will tell us exactly what program should be on TV. As a state, we should be able to compensate for this group, which is not interested in the commercial programme, through the possibility of watching the non-commercial programme. As far as the legality of these measures is concerned, I remind you that when we entered the European Union and committed that we would not grant public aid to various companies, companies or institutions that operate on the same market as other institutions, we made an exception - we and almost all the countries of the European Union, and, as far as I know, all the countries of the European Union - just for the public media. Why? That is why - as I said earlier - someone must carry out this mission not under commercial dictation. Therefore, we have the right to reach a ceiling of about PLN 3 billion in terms of public aid. The European Union or state aid legislation is in fact not interested in where this money comes from, whether it comes from a subscription or from a state grant - in different countries it is different - only how we spend it and whether it does not affect competitiveness in the same market where other players operate, for example. other commercial televisions. It must be remembered that public television is the leading broadcaster in Poland, it occupies almost 1/3 of the market, if not more. The remaining part of the cake is divided between two other large broadcasters, and I would like to point out that the television budget is two or three times smaller than those commercial broadcasters, and yet public television maintains almost 10 thematic channels. You have accusations primarily for publicists or information, for example. On TVP channel one, the whole program lasts about an hour, and there is a continuous broadcast of about 20 hours. In addition, there are regional centres which inform about events and activities that take place in the regions and which are not reported by any other television, unless these are sensational activities. And we have a duty to spend money on all of this. It is not that we have spent 1 billion PLN on television, because we pulled them out of the hat, and before that we gave almost 1 billion, as one of the Members said, because we did not give them... There's been a loan, a loan on commercial terms, it's 3.5%. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: With a 2-year penalty.]] Therefore, television will pay off this loan because it has such a duty... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: In the next term of office, you will lose your power.]] ...and 1 billion is public aid, which is not provided directly to television, but is provided to all public media, i.e. Polish Radio, all regional stations that are closest to people. And that's the money for them too. I wanted to point out one thing here: It is not that we are pulling some money from the government, giving it to television, and since then we have power over television. No. We, ladies and gentlemen, are handing over this money to the National Radio and Television Council, [[Joy in the Chamber]] a constitutional body which treats that money exactly the same as the proceeds from the subscription. And it is the National Council of Radio and Television that separates them, by resolution it decides who and how much money it will get. [[Whose national council is it?]] Therefore, such allegations are absurd. I also wanted to address the so-called issue. an algorithm that has been raised. The point is that when these reliefs were designed in 2010, the National Radio and Television Council was supposed to develop a pattern and guide it in determining the amount of the subscription in order to compensate in some sense for this loss. There has never been such a pattern. I understand that the Member has referred to the calculations of the National Radio and Television Council on how much money television will be losing in the coming years. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: I wasn't talking about the pattern, I was talking about something else.]] I thought you were talking about a pattern. As far as the Institute of Solidarity is concerned, I would like to tell you that there are often allegations that there are other institutions that carry out the same tasks. No, it's not. Each institution, which repeatedly or in committee, or during the parliamentary debate were given as examples of institutions performing similar tasks, carries out completely different tasks and none of them is engaged in searching for, examining and in some sense rewarding those who risked their lives to protect Poles who were brutally murdered during and after World War II. I remind you that it was a great risk and that Poles in many cases were hidden just like other Polish citizens, the Jewish nationality, who also died then. They had to hide the same way. They were murdered the same way. Just as millions of Poles died and so many people died. - other nationalities, whether Ukrainians or Germans or others - hid these Poles, also exposing themselves to harassment or loss of life. These people deserve help and reward from the Polish state. We must not forget them. There must also be information in the world that Poles are grateful that someone risked their lives for them, and that these people can hope that the Polish state will also reward them and remember them. So I'm surprised that there's some excitement here because we're conducting a historical policy, which is that we're commemorating those who helped us. Let us take an example from other countries, e.g. Israel. That's exactly what they're doing, and we're gonna do it too, because it's necessary and important. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Will you buy this palace of Lubomirski?]] As for the palace... Thank you, Member. As far as other investments are concerned, which are indicated in the aggregate amendment, where we have listed different entities, in principle most of them already have valuations and operations, and we are ready to buy out these investments. In some cases, e.g. when it comes to Polish Recordings, negotiations are ongoing. We hope to complete them by the end of the year and buy this pearl of Polish music and culture to return to the hands of the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u313	Thank you, Minister. I would like the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u314	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, Ladies and gentlemen! The question concerned the amount of PLN 140 million, which is intended to enable the purchase of real estate for the National Public Prosecutor's Office still this year. I wanted to begin by thanking you very much for this amendment on behalf of the Minister of Justice - Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra, as well as the national prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski. Thank you for this amendment and for the work of the committee. In particular, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Jack Sasin. It can be said that over the years, the prosecution's office, an institution extremely important, one of the fundamentals for our country, has been neglected. It is not just about pay, because we will probably talk about it soon, but also about infrastructure. It cannot be that the National Public Prosecutor's Office, one of the most important institutions in the State, must pay 9 million PLN, it is about rent, a year to the tenant. Economically it is. simply uneconomic, regardless of the fact that in the case of this property, where the National Public Prosecutor's Office is located at the moment, it is impossible to invest or modernise. And prosecutors who deal with really very difficult cases, genre difficult... This is already the result of an amendment that we made more than a year ago in March 2016. It is known that many very important tasks have been transferred to this level, the National Public Prosecutor's Office. They can't have the DA's staff, as well as the prosecutors themselves, in the rooms they're taunting about this institution, which, as I say, occupies such an important place in the entire system... These are really free measures, i.e. measures that have been taken, firstly, because of the failure to implement the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Non-implementation does not mean that we have not introduced provisions to which we were obliged. In fact, through the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, we have implemented something much further into the Polish system than this directive. This is the amount of PLN 100 million. PLN 42 million for free legal aid granted ex officio. The point is, there was supposed to be an adversarial system, and we changed the rules: there's an inquisition system. We've saved money in this way. The amount of over PLN 7 million for payment of pensions for retired judges. 21 million PLN for IT projects - this is about savings resulting from the settlement of tenders - and more than 16 million PLN from so-called. current expenditure. But by referring to the question that occurred yesterday at the committee meeting, whether this money is obtained at the expense of the courts, I say: of course not. By accepting these amounts, we are always based on all this, on all the proposals that the appeals courts send to us. Thus, in no case does this diminish any possibilities for courts to act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u315	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Adam Hamryszczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u316	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the Responsible Development Strategy, the Polish Development Fund's activities are carried out in an area not covered by the commercial sector in Poland. This activity is motivated by the mission of the organisation, which is to supplement the gaps while maintaining the principles of a rational economy. As a result, the main objectives of the use of funds obtained as a result of raising the capital of the Polish Development Fund are the following. The amount of PLN 1050 million is allocated to investment activities under investment funds in the area of infrastructure and the energy sector. I am referring here to the Debt and Capital Infrastructure Investment Fund. The amount from PLN 250 million to PLN 550 million is then planned for investment activities through the creation of a fund dedicated to the financing of enterprises at the growth stage, where there are currently restrictions on access to funds from local investors in Poland. Here we are thinking about a new fund of funds that will invest in other funds, not directly in companies. Then PLN 150 million for investment activities under investment funds in the area of companies with high development potential. I am talking about the Polish Enterprise Investment Fund. I PLN 150 million for investment activities under investment funds in the local government sector, including the so-called. a package for medium-sized cities implemented in cooperation with the Ministry of Development. I am referring here to the Fund for Local Government Investments, which is dedicated to small and medium-sized cities. On the other hand, in response to Mrs Masłowska's question, I would like to say that the recapitalisation of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency will also enable the implementation of a new model of promotion of the Polish economy abroad, and will consequently lead to an increase in internationalisation of Polish companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u317	Thank you. Please, Mrs Teresa Czerwińska, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to respond collectively to all these questions from your Members, which concern public debt or general government debt, i.e. general government debt combined. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the sovereign debt-to-GDP ratio, the execution is 51.9% , for 2016, and for this year according to the debt management strategy of the public finance sector for the years 2019 to 2021 is down to 51.7%. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is also planned that we will maintain the same level in 2018 and that it will fall to 46.2% in the following years. Targeted in 2021. Before I go further, I would like to say that you have actually raised two points: public debt, calculated according to national methodology, and sector debt, calculated according to the methodology used by the European Union. What I want to say is that when it comes to the debt of the GG sector, which is the general government, 2016 is a performance of 54.1%. and this is the level of 2011, ladies and gentlemen, while in 2017 a level of 53.8% is planned. , and in 2019 the reduction to 48.9%. As far as nominal figures are concerned, because with public debt we use the ratio to GDP rather than nominal amounts, because they have also fallen here, I just want to point out that the amount raised by the Member, if I remember correctly, Skowronska - it was over 1 trillion - is the amount of government debt, calculated according to the EU methodology. On the other hand, if we take into account the public debt, this is the amount of PLN 977.3 billion. This is the implementation of the information at the end of the second quarter of 2017. These are the last verified, verified data that we can present. But to look at it in the right context, I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that as far as 54.1% is concerned, , i.e. this debt of the general government sector mentioned here, seems to be a high level, while - for the list - for the countries of the European Union as a whole it is 83.2% and 88.9% for euro area countries. It is therefore important to stress that Poland is one of the 12 countries of the European Union, where the debt-to-GDP ratio is below 60%. It is about the level which is enshrined in the Maastricht Treaty. So as far as statistics are concerned, so many answers and additions to the issues that you have raised. On the other hand, as regards the question of the recapitalisation of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the request to mention some of the tasks for which these funds will be allocated, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, that the current amount of the own funds of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego due to the level of concentration limits and the need to maintain security buffers does not allow the bank to implement the new initiatives that are being taken within the framework of a responsible development strategy. In particular, it is about the tasks that are put before BGK concerning reindustrialisation, foreign expansion and social development. I can mention some initiatives, such as the funding of the research fund for which PLN 0.5 billion will be allocated, the cooperation fund with China or the infrastructure fund, which was also mentioned here. Therefore, all these tasks will be financed from the recapitalisation for which this amount of PLN 1.5 billion will be allocated. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u319	Thank you, Minister. Now I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Sasin, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u320	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the Members of the Committee on Public Finance, all the Members of the other committees who have worked on this, the government, for preparing this law and then also for working in Parliament, very warmly. These questions, which were raised during the debate and in the course of questioning, were mostly answered by the Minister's State. I just want to make one statement... Mrs Hennig-Kloska said in her speech: There is no money for anything in Poland. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No health, no roads...]] Well, honourable Member, High Izbo, precisely because this money is much more in the budget than in previous years, because something that has failed our predecessors for 8 years has been successfully fought against the VAT mafia... [[Paulina Hennig-Kloska: Cheers! Cheers!]] ...was successful in making this budget really much more, because after September this year 80% has already been made. revenue to the budget, so that this debate can be held today, and it is possible that today we decide that this extra money goes to other important objectives, other than those that were originally included in this budget. So that is not true, High Izbo, that there is no money in Poland for anything. This money for important things, for family policies, for example, is really much, much more than it was before. [[Finally!]] Finally, because it certainly was not right for the ministers to talk about it - the ministers answered your questions very substantively - but as a Member, as chairman of the Committee on Public Finance, the rapporteur of this draft law, I must say this: I appeal to you, in view of the authority of the High House, not to use the arguments which this High House is embarrassing, because if you cannot distinguish between the government budget deficit and the public finance deficit in this debate, it is unfortunately embarrassing for this debate, and unfortunately it has been in this debate. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: We can.]] This means that all those who said that the deficit of the state budget this year will be implemented at the level of PLN 59 or 60 billion do not understand what they are talking about. It was very clear at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance that this deficit would be much lower, the government budget deficit, it would not exceed PLN 33 billion. That's what Minister Czerwińska said. On the other hand, this sum of almost PLN 60 billion concerns the deficit of the public finance sector and I would ask that you adopt it and do not mislead the High House and the public for the future. If such information is such a surprise that there is no money in this budget for actions or programmes that are not being implemented at the moment, then I must also express my surprise that Members are asking such questions, because when we are talking about the fact that there is no money in this budget for some 500+ programme for pensioners, or a programme that does not exist, it is strange that such expectations are directed towards the budget law. Finally, when it is said that public aid is provided to public television, it is necessary to know what Minister Lewandowski has already said and explained. I really appeal to you that, while we are taking care of the seriousness of the High House, we do not formulate such questions or such surprises in this Chamber in such an important debate as the budget debate. And finally, because there was also a statement during this debate that people in Poland stopped paying a radio-television subscription because they allegedly do not accept what program on this radio or television is being implemented, I wanted to inform you that people stopped paying this subscription during the reign of Donald Tusk. [[Applause]] And if your thesis is true that not paying a subscription is a protest against what's being shown on this television or what broadcasts are on the radio, then it's a huge charge of television of Donald Tusk's time and government, so think about what you're saying. People do not pay the subscription because they listened to the call of the Polish Prime Minister, who irresponsiblely led to the fact that today the government and the parliamentary majority... [[Scandalous.]] ...must actually work to finance these public media, save their existence, because they are of great value to all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u321	In the procedure of correcting Mrs Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! With all due respect, don't have Poles, don't wash your eyes to Poles. If from PLN 980 million 800 million goes to TVP, anyway, this money was just wasted. You say there's money for everything. That's why there's no money for raises for paramedics, for raises for residents, for an increase of up to 6%. GDP of health care funds? [[They will be. They will be. We'll clean it up and they'll be there.]] And why, on the other hand, you don't lower the VAT rate, you just keep it at 23.8%. ? We've got a raise on water and sewage for that. We have a raise on the ZUS for the smallest entrepreneurs you were supposed to raise by PLN 600 a year. We have an increase in the rent tax for apartments that will be paid by young Poles who rent the apartment. We have a bank tax, a commercial tax, and now you are throwing yourself at the ZUS for the higher earners and you will be pulling another 5.5 billion out of the pockets of Poles because you are implementing today... [[The poorest.]] ...on the loan of Poles [[♪ The bell ♪]] and future generations' electoral promises. There's no money. If there's a 30 billion deficit...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u323	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u324	...and we're going to get more debt... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...fifty billion, you live above the state.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u325	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As amendments were tabled at the second reading of the draft laws submitted, I propose that the Sejm re-direct both projects to the Committee on Public Finances in order to report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 47 hrs. 18 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws (prints Nos 1835 and 1984). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Report from the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws, print No 1835. Ladies and gentlemen! At its 48th meeting on 29 September 2017, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after considering this draft law at its meetings on 10 October and 7 November 2017, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. The Commission shall, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit the following proposals at the request of the applicants. At the meeting of the committee, the amendments to Draft Print Act No 1835 prepared by the Legislative Office of the Sejm, the five amendments which were accepted by the Members, were also accepted at the Parliamentary amendment meeting in the 14th, together with the consequences, while the committee rejected 62 amendments which were tabled as minority requests during the examination of the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee discussed this draft law at three of its meetings. First was the general debate and the election of the subcommittee. We then worked in the subcommittee, where all parties interested in the work on this bill were invited, i.e. I am referring primarily to the trade unions operating in the Police, in the Border Guard, in other services, if they were interested. Moreover, trade unions participated twice in committee meetings. Following the work of the subcommittee, there was a meeting of the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee at which we worked again on the subsequent amendments tabled, and this debate also gave a voice to all interested parties and each amendment was put to the vote separately. All these materials are available in the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u327	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Marta Kubiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u328	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! We are following the first work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the government bill submitted by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, draft Print Act 1835, which aims to improve and implement the real supervision of subordinate institutions and services. The Minister's supervision will be carried out by means of an internal surveillance inspector whose activities will be in support of the Minister in the exercise of supervision. The inspector will carry out his tasks with the help of the Office of Internal Surveillance. One of the proposed changes to the project allows the Minister to supervise the process of transforming the structures of today's Office of the Home Affairs of the Police into an isolated unit, the Office of the Internal Affairs of the Police, and on the other hand provides support to the Police Headquarters in the process of transforming this office. Given that the Minister would be given the authority to cast the Chief of Staff and the Deputy Chief of Police and the Border Guard's Internal Affairs Office respectively, it is necessary to appoint a Minister as disciplinary officer to the Head of Internal Affairs of the Police and the Border Guard Office respectively. An important amendment is the possibility for the Police's Office of Home Affairs to carry out the task of identifying and combating crimes against the economic turnover committed to the detriment of the Police and Border Guard. After all these years of failing governments of our predecessors, we must solve the problem of the lack of legislation creating the necessary mechanisms to strengthen the Minister's instruments in relation to supervised services. In our view, the minister's political responsibility for the activities of his services should be based on real and enforceable competences. The bill submitted is intended to introduce a new quality in the supervision of services. In a professionally run large-scale company, the director responsible for his department is fully responsible for its operation, and this responsibility arises from having tools that enable him to supervise the work of the department he manages. We cannot allow the State not to react to specific issues that undermine public confidence in state services, services that are one of the pillars of statehood. I understand that the professionalism of the management of the state of the PO-PSL team, which has tormented Poles with its governments for 8 years, is alien and they oppose every bill that has, interestingly enough, the task of making our country work effectively. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, responsible for the management, supervision and control of the activities of his subordinate bodies, offices and bodies, must have effective tools to disclose and monitor conduct that violates the principles of professional ethics. Without the right tools, you can't talk about responsibility. It is understandable to criticize the opposition, whose responsibility of power is foreign, the opposition, which does not want to take responsibility for the consequences of its fatal for Poles governments. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption of the bill submitted and that it be directed to further work in the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u329	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u330	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At first reading, Minister Błaszczak presented this project and argued that the solutions contained in it concern only officers and uniformed staff. During the work of the subcommittee and committee, it turned out that the minister was simply not true because this project concerns all citizens. The project grants the Minister the right to supervise operational and cognitive activities carried out by the Police and Border Guard, and in the future also the State Protection Service, the successor of the Government Protection Office. In this respect, the rules were not clear and the justification was extremely thin and ambiguous. But during the work of the subcommittee, Minister Zieliński resolved all our doubts in this respect and admitted that the powers to supervise operational and cognitive activities will apply not only to cases involving officers of uniformed services, but also to cases concerning all Poles. Moreover, during the work on this project, the Minister's powers were extended because yesterday the committee adopted an amendment tabled by the government, which, in addition to being able to read the results of the operational and research activities, gives the Minister an insight into all the material related to these operations. That means the minister's hands are gonna be hit. not only the wiretap protocols, but also e.g. data on police agents or people who were police sources of information. At the committee meeting, we also asked the Minister what it would be like to deal with this information. And we have been informed that the insight into these materials will not be the sole authority of the Minister, but in practice the Minister will be able to authorize any selected group of employees of the Ministry of Interior and Administration to get acquainted with these materials. So there is a completely new political mechanism for accessing information from operational and research activities by politicians and employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. In practice, every police informant will have to face the fact that his data will be made available to the Minister and employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. We believe that such a mechanism is not needed, and we are proposing amendments that remove this solution from this law. However, if PiS politicians want to take responsibility for introducing this new mechanism of access for politicians to such sensitive information, we also propose amendments which will reduce the risk of possible abuses related to this new mandate that the Minister will obtain. Another group of regulations, which is included in this Act, are provisions concerning police supervision, Border Guard, State Fire Department and Government Protection Office. And in general, I also presented the position of the Civic Platform on these provisions at first reading. On the other hand, I would like to point out that these regulations are disrupting the hierarchical nature of the services, introducing the possibility of political interference in their work and the possibility of political verification of all executive positions in uniform services. Again, the project only spoke about those newly appointed, while during the work of the subcommittee, during the work of the committee, at the request of the Ministry, an amendment was introduced which led to the verification of all executives in uniform services. Interestingly, the Minister wants to obtain such a verification authority for himself, but at the committee meeting he could not even tell us what group of people - how many thousands of officers it will be - this re-verification will concern. On behalf of the Civic Platform, I am applying for the rejection of this law, and if this proposal is not accepted, we are also proposing numerous amendments to limit the wrong solutions in this law. Mr President spoke about 62 minority proposals. These are indeed the proposals that were made by us and were presented at the committee meeting. In addition, we are making some important amendments today in our opinion. Among these amendments, I would like to draw attention to Amendment 4. This is an amendment that was sort of discussed yesterday at the committee meeting, in the presence of trade unions, but was not discussed by the committee. This is an amendment that removes a provision that could lead to the paralysis of trade unions operating in uniform services. We are talking here about the changes made in the article. Paragraph 7 1 act. This is an amendment consistent with the position of the Federation of Trade Unions of Uniform Services. I told the committee that I was going to file an amendment like this. I think this is a post-political matter, and I am counting on the government to consider the support of this amendment and, I hope, the entire High House. I hope that this amendment will be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u331	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 concerning the Government's draft law amending the Act on certain powers of employees of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the proposed solution aims to implement the standard of civil oversight of uniformed public policy services. In addition, the need to implement it should be justified by the creation of mechanisms to strengthen the existing instruments of supervision of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration over controlled services, which are intended to benefit from the fact that these entities benefit from a very wide range of statutory powers which provide for the possibility of interference in the rights and freedoms of citizens, as well as the performance of tasks liable to cause certain corruption risks. These are identified here by the applicants as areas of potential abuse. As far as change is concerned, we are dealing with, among other things. with the establishment of a new civilian supervisory authority, i.e. the so-called. an inspector of internal surveillance under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The activities of the inspector are to strengthen the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of uniform formations, the inspector will provide the Minister with information and material obtained as a result of the tasks carried out. The main task of the inspector is to support actions aimed at enforcing high standards of service operation, verifying candidates for senior posts in the services, monitoring and revealing behaviour that violate the principles of professional ethics in the services. There will also be an Internal Surveillance Bureau with the inspector. The inspector is to be appointed and cancelled by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. There are also formal requirements. The office is to be composed of seconded police officers, Border Guards as office inspectors, assisted by seconded BOR officers and firefighters of the State Fire Department. These are office experts. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration will report annually to the Sejm and the Senate on the application of operational control by the Office of Internal Surveillance, and the existing cells for the internal affairs of the Police and Border Guard will be organisationally separated from the headquarters of these services and will become organisational units respectively: the Office of Internal Affairs of the Police and the Office of Home Affairs of the Border Guard, and the commanders of these units will become bodies. Ladies and gentlemen! There are very important powers that we are now granting, whether this law grants, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. We understand the need to sort things out in uniform services, especially the police, because there are many different types of cases that need to be sorted out and clarified. I also know from the autopsy that there are a lot of cases like this. The hearing at the subcommittee meeting has convinced us that there is a need for certain external control mechanisms, and yesterday's hearing before the Amber Gold Commission has clearly shown what the situation may look like when it is left on its own, only internal control. So that maybe this is the way to eliminate all kinds of pathology, but at the same time it is the way to give the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration very much competence. This problem will always crash into the person who holds this position. If it is a person who will act pro-stateally, he will be a unit focused on actually acting and cleansing this environment or explaining some annoying issues, then we will be calm about it. However, if there is a person in such a position who wishes to use it politically, unfortunately these powers will be able to be used so. This is the danger that this bill brings with it. Nevertheless, we would be able to support this law, but, Minister - and here without offense - we have some doubts as to whether you are the person who gives us the guarantee of using this law correctly. Unfortunately, these actions, which are being undertaken in the part of the ministry that is subject to you, have for us the mark of switching the supervisory authority from the body to which he is to supervise. A little bit in this case, as the proverb says, the tail spins the dog. These doubts remain with us, but they are clear, and for this reason we will decide how to vote tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u334	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The bill we are discussing, i.e. the amendment of the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, prints 1835 and 1984, includes such a classic extension of competences that do not come from other regulations. So the Minister for Administration and Home Affairs wants to give himself additional powers, which are not based on the system, nor on the existing arrangements and guidelines or regulations of the President of the Council of Ministers. The PiS bill in question wants to set up a new special service. It's supposed to be the Internal Security Bureau, along with the internal surveillance inspector, who's gonna run this office. This new special service is to take over the supervision of police officers, Border Guards and the Government Protection Office and the firefighters of the State Fire Department and staff employed in these services. So much for theory. However, I would like to ask the Minister: Why, Minister, really this new special service? Because it's certainly not to oversee the officers and draw consequences when it's justified. The death case at the Wrocław police station, actually your reaction to this death, clearly shows it. You have not drawn any consequences towards the commanders, who, as everyone has already said, have clearly covered this case, although all Poland knows who they are, wrote about it in the newspapers. You haven't gotten the consequences. That's not enough, these gentlemen have been given in this situation, I would say, promotional awards or retirement opportunities. To this day, we do not know why Minister Beata Kemp was at the Sitz precinct. In addition, the current and effective supervision of each case is exercised by the court and the prosecution. Minister! If you are unable to draw consequences for officers who are known to all of Poland by name and supervision by the court and the prosecutor's office, then why do you need this new service? Perhaps the goal is completely different. So let's find out what's going on. It's Art. 1 gives us the answer. In amendment 2, in the new article. 1b Minister Błaszczak and Minister Zieliński have put in place the power to supervise the regularity of the implementation of the operational and research activities. How? The answer comes from art. 1c: Ministers of Błaszczak and Zieliński will be able to familiarize themselves with the results and materials of the operations carried out in the Police and Border Guard. In order to exercise supervision, ministers Błaszczak and Zieliński will read the files, read the transcripts from the wiretap, analyze data that is the secrets of companies, not only in cases where officers are involved, such as. in the Wrocław one. No, ministers Błaszczak and Zieliński will read all the files from all over Poland, ladies and gentlemen, from Augustów to Żywiec. For what purpose? You'll have to answer that for yourselves. In this project we also have other unacceptable ideas. The new special service during the activities will be able to violate the personal dignity of Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, someone has confused the times and the system, this is not a PRL. Ministers of Błaszczak and Zieliński will be able to eavesdrop and observe for 5 days without the permission of the court. Ladies and gentlemen, the officers seconded to the new special service will take the equipment and equipment from their units. I'm asking what about the security of Poles. There are a lot of such charges, and the previous speakers spoke of them. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club I'm filing a motion to reject this bill because it's simply not serious. However, if you would like to proceed, we are making amendments which, although in the minimum part, will civilise this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u335	Thank you. And Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u336	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think it's some kind of mania. Now all law and justice officers who have ministerial positions want to have their own services at their disposal. Minister Macierewicz has his own services, Minister Kaminski has his own services, and in a moment we will proceed with the Marshal's Guard Act with very broad powers, so Mr. Marshal will have his services. Is this some kind of mania? I don't know, I think you're afraid that one service will act against another and that's why you have to protect yourselves. A huge number of reservations to this bill. It has already been said here that you can perform surgical and cognitive activities without the permission of the court for 5 days. I don't know if all this is due to a lack of ability to select people in the service, because we remember the peripetuity with the appointment and later the removal of the Chief of Police. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill should actually be in the basket. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u337	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u338	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party has never stood and will not stand in opposition to solutions of wise, legitimate, prestigious Polish state or simply socially expected. From this point of view, however, I would like to once again articulate our firmness if there are particular interests of applicants that are not understood by the vast majority of Polish society or, to put it simply, legal bubbles. During the debate at the first reading of the project, I made clear the reasons why my club cannot support the government's position on the subject. We will never, under any circumstances, put our hands on the creation of the law on order or even the wish of the majority of the parliament. Not always most people are right, they don't always have an absolute monopoly on omniscience. Most people can't ignore minorities. In fact, if the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration wanted to have an independent, reliable knowledge of irregularities or possible irregularities in the Police, he would have raised a short and concise bill to the Sejm two years ago, establishing an institutional ministerial control, based on the existing Office of Home Affairs of the Police Headquarters, the Office for Control of the Police Headquarters and the Office for Control and Supervision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. He didn't do it. I ask from this bleacher: What is the difference between a police chief and a private police officer? After all, any of these entities, theoretically assuming, may be susceptible to corruption or other pathological factors. So why not apply the principles proposed in the draft law at the outset in the candidate's service? What's in the way? Such a solution would certainly be socially justified and acceptable. Does the Minister plan to buy only certain groups of officers for the future and build his prestige on them? That's what we don't agree to, and there won't be. Officers come to our parliamentary offices asking us, Members, why future regulations are really meant to serve. Why do you need access to surgical and reconnaissance information? That's what the courts and the D.A.'s office are for. Furthermore, it is scandalous and incomprehensible that at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I did not get an answer to a very simple question which concerned the verification criteria. The lack of clear regulation in this regard can already at the outset become a source of conflict and unnecessary suspicion among officers. This can even result in legal proceedings. In fact, this proves very clearly that the staffing of officers will take place at the discretion and most likely from the political key. This is the real intention of amending the law, not fighting pathologies and improving citizens' safety, as we have heard so much about today. Taking all this into account, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote against the bill because we will never allow pathological solutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u339	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking questions? If not, I'm closing the list. [[Miss Marshal, I'm still here.]] You're welcome. The first question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Arkadiusz Czartoryski, who is also the chairman of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, whether he knows the position of the Bureau of the Federation of Trade Unions of Uniform Services on Article. Paragraph 7 1. This is an article that, according to the trade unions, as we read in the position, can lead to the paralysis of trade unions. This case was brought up at the subcommittee meeting. The appropriate amendment, also in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, was needed in this respect, but was not considered yesterday at the committee meeting. So that we would no longer have to go back to the bill, I then announced that such an amendment would be tabled at second reading. This amendment was tabled by me. I therefore ask you to reflect on this and also to look at the position of the social side in this matter. In my opinion, the concerns of the officials in this area can be justified and we should do everything to remove those provisions which raise doubts from the bill, especially as they are not necessary for this system proposed by Minister Zieliński to function. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u341	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Biernacki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u342	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2001, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration introduced judicial control over operational work. Thus, through the introduction of this law and these provisions, they were brought out of the public sphere, perhaps not even public, but political, operational and cognitive activities and access to these activities. Today with these regulations, Minister, you go back to those bad old practices. I would also like to draw your attention, too, to the fact that the Polish police were very successful. This is an institution with very high social trust, in any case enjoyed. You said yourself not so long ago that you invited guests from the West to come to Poland because Poland is a safe country. So decide whether we're a safe country because of the police's effective work or not. Minister, a simple and strong question that you must answer. Why didn't you take into account the fundamental remarks of the Legislative Council in front of the Prime Minister? Anyway, that's your advice to your Prime Minister. These comments have not been taken into account, and they have been fundamentally criticised by this law and the way it is dealt with. Let us not hide that the Internal Affairs Office has de facto been identified as quasi-service. It's about the clearances of the Secret Service. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u343	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The explanatory memorandum states that the aim of this project is to implement the standard of civil oversight of uniformed public policy services. The objective is very general and unclear, but when we get a deeper look at the bill, the goal seems very concrete. This is undoubtedly a political oversight of the services. Mechanisms for the control of operational activities shall be introduced. This bill gives easy access to surgical and cognitive materials, access to which the court currently has control. It's a very dangerous project. I ask you to answer the question: Are these new services of wide competence? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u345	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u346	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, I'd like to hear from the Minister if I'm right about the reasons for this bill. Well, it seems that in the government of PiS, which currently rules Poland, there is such a race of rats. Someone has already said that every minister calls his service, they'll probably bite each other in a minute. You probably envied the Minister of Justice that he could dictate everything to the prosecutors, maybe look into the records the prosecutors keep. You probably want to do the same. Is this really reasonable reasoning? I also see the positive in this proposal. If all these services arise, there will be this supervision of the politicians over the services, it is hope that at some point like rats thrown into a barrel from which there is no way out, you will bite each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u347	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u348	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, From the beginning, since we've been working on this work, I've been looking for an argument, why it's worth it, and if it's worth it. Minister, so far I am not convinced, hence at the stage of the committee's work I either voted against or abstained from the vote, because I still do not see this decisive argument. Question one. Do we not have services in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Poland for such activities? We do. The question, then, is whether or not there are no procedures, there is no system. I don't believe it, he is. In other words, in my simplest opinion it is not implemented, the system is not coordinated and, what is most important, the final personal conclusions are not drawn during promotions. I fear that today, after this theoretical state, we have again an excess of services which, instead of helping against appearances, will complicate and make it more difficult. I have my concerns that it will be better and safer. Because, contrary to appearances, I prefer three services, but they operate, than 10 theoretical services that bother each other and compete with each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u349	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u350	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I've got three things to do. Firstly, will it be so that the internal surveillance inspector will be able to carry out operations, reconnaissance operations in the Border Guard, in the fire department without informing the heads of these services? 'Cause that's how it could be. Secondly, yesterday we did not learn what criteria would determine that one of the current officers would be negative because we failed to find out what the criteria would be yesterday in the committee. We are afraid that they may be introduced after the adoption of this law in great freedom by the Minister, who appoints an inspector for internal surveillance. One last question. You say that this law is justified, that such service must be established, but such services, such internal departments, have functioned so far. In two years I haven't heard of the negative functioning of these internal departments, so please, Minister, tell me what were the cases of a negative assessment of the activities of these internal departments that you turned it all upside down at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u351	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law, which concerns the establishment of internal surveillance inspections under the responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, which will have special forms of police supervision, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office, is a very bad project. The minister's supervision of operations will look so that he can demand all the materials, e.g. telephone bugs about all citizens. So, ladies and gentlemen, what country will we live in? What will the information circulation in the ministry look like? Who's gonna have access to that information? The Legislative Board recognises that it is necessary to define precisely the tasks and competences of the Internal Surveillance Authority in such a way as to avoid conflicts and duplication of tasks and competences of other State services. Minister! All opposition clubs are against this bill. Are these arguments not enough to draw up a new law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u353	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u354	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Not only are opposition clubs opposed, but there are not too many members of the PiS who would specifically support this bill. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the rapporteur. Is it true that during the subcommittee meeting, trade union representatives submitted such information that the project was not consulted with the trade unions in the Police and Border Guards? I'll remind you, it's somewhere in there that's been logged in. I also have a second question for the Minister. Minister, in the 4th change, you forbid the staff of the office to participate in organizations, in events, in cases where it would violate any of the interests of the Ministry. Minister, what are you doing out there so scared you're putting a gag on people who work at the Ministry? I would very much ask the Minister to be kind enough to explain, because this is an unprecedented regulation. Minister! Another thing. Is it because of the powers of the inspector that he can check disciplinary proceedings? Will the inspector interfere with disciplinary proceedings? Will he give instructions to those who conduct these proceedings in order to behave properly? And one last question. Minister, why do you really need this project? I'm asking because the press says [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the commanders who were guilty in the Wrocław case have a promotion and 100% salary, they're still getting paid, promotion to the main command, leading a quiet retirement life. Why do you need a tool that can detect a possible crime... Deputy Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Thank you very much, sir. Member Mirosław Suchoń: ...because with the tools and knowledge already in place today, who has committed an irregularity, you can't pull out... Deputy Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Thank you very much, sir. Member Mirosław Suchoń: ...consciousness? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u355	Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u356	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Minister, what guarantees do we have that this bill will not be abused? Where are the appropriate safety valves? What guarantee do we have that the minister will use it to repair the police, if today - and I have that impression - the police are dictating the ministry's directions? Even listening here, ladies and gentlemen, the predecessors on the platform, I noticed that they were talking about wiretapping. You really need to be honest, work for the country and talk about the state's repairs, about what's good for the country and for the Poles. Then the wiretap won't do any good. You just have to be honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u357	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u358	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. In fact, this law extends very much the competences of the internal department, creating such an external internal department. I wanted to ask you about the motivation to make these rules, because I understand that since there is an external internal department, it means that this internal department is so ineffective that it cannot reform it. Hence the question: Why will it not simply be eliminated? That's one basic question I wanted to ask. The second question, a little broader: Does this law confirm that the situation in the Polish Police is simply tragic, and do you have to apply such methods in which the Minister directly through his external service will only be able to influence what is happening in the Police? Is it so bad that we have to proceed with a law in which there is doubts and concerns about the scope, the width of the competences that will be placed in the hands of the Minister? I also agree with the words of Mr Józwiak, who questioned this, because God forbid, if there is a situation in which someone who is not entirely responsible will have such tools in his hand, he can actually plow the Polish Police and the Polish State, and we would not want that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u359	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u360	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill refers to the verification of officers holding specific posts. You are talking so much about transparency, so my question is: Minister, please mention the criteria set out - I stress the word "written" - in the proposed bill on which you will verify the officers. Minister, it's in the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u361	Thank you very much, sir. That was the last question. The questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Jarosław Zieliński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Questions, if they were at all, are difficult to answer, because these were not substantive questions, asked with concern for security, standards, the proper functioning of the services, only political attacks, which were once again addressed, because all that was said here today was already said at the session of the Parliament sub-committee, then at the session of the Parliamentary Committee. The work of the subcommittee took a very long time. We tried, I tried repeatable questions, similar or the same calmly, repeatedly, factually answer. None of the opposition listened, and the next speeches were the same. Today we have a repeat. Today all the opposition, as you say, is against it again. It means that the whole opposition doesn't want Poland to be okay. That means the entire opposition wants to tolerate pathology. It's not enough that he wants to tolerate pathology, which means that the whole opposition is willing to have a blocking mechanism in the democratic system that makes... [[You guys are pathology.]] Are you done? [[Yes.]] Exploratory. This means that you agree to such a blocking mechanism in democracy, which is that responsibility is something pretended to be, something pretended to be, because it is difficult to answer for something, and that is why a parliamentary majority is elected, which gives support to the government, so that this government acts effectively, that it also supervises important institutions of the state. And this mechanism, which is so far causing blockages, because you have to be responsible for something that you have no influence on, or at least you have little influence on. Few of this, the opposition attacks the government, attacks ministers for what has happened in a given service, but prevents effective supervision of the fact that this does not happen, etc., etc. This is your way of thinking, the perception of this problem that we are talking about. Meanwhile, the services, the Police, the Border Guard, the Government Protection Office, the State Protection Service in the future, or the State Fire Department must operate in a transparent manner, and the Minister responsible for supervising them must have mechanisms of real supervision, not theoretical supervision. So far this surveillance has been illusory and largely theoretical. The draft law prepared by the government and clarified by the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs - it has indeed been clarified in a number of provisions - seeks to implement the standards of civil oversight of uniformed services, public policy services. I would say, in fact, that it finally establishes civilian supervision of uniformed services, because so far the supervision in the scope referred to by the law was that these cells, which you call departments - the internal affairs offices - were subject to who was to be supervised. Self-supervising is rather bad, it is subjective supervision, and it must be external to be objective. In the current state of law, the Minister of Home Affairs, despite its formal sovereignty over these formations, has in fact significantly limited possibilities for autonomous and direct examination of all information and signals about negative phenomena in these services. The need for mechanisms to strengthen and implement existing supervisory instruments also arises - I would also like to stress very strongly - you interpret it in the contrary, as you do more conveniently, from a purely political position, in order to attack the government - the use by supervised services of statutory powers, which provide for the possibility of significant interference in civil rights and freedoms, as well as the performance of tasks liable to cause corruption risks. It's written in the bill's explanatory memorandum. And that is what I would like to stress very strongly: if we are dealing with such an advantage of instruments, competences, opportunities for services, and these classified instruments, these services must be particularly supervised so that there is no abuse here. It is about checking the regularity of all those activities to which the services are entitled. After all, yesterday we adopted in one of the amendments a provision which says precisely that the Minister responsible for Home Affairs is to control e.g. the field of operational and exploratory activities as regards the regularity of their conduct. The Minister will not perform surgical and exploratory activities, we are not creating a new service. The Internal Surveillance Office is not a new service, it is just an instrument, it is a tool that will allow the Minister to carry out the responsible supervisory tasks entrusted to him. This separation of the two Internal Affairs Offices - in the Police and Border Guard - is about to lead to the disclosure of supervision. These offices will be subject to the Home Affairs Minister, not the Chiefs. I would like to draw your attention in this discussion to another very important aspect, and I also spoke about it yesterday at the committee meeting. The Minister of Home Affairs not only supervises the commandants, but also oversees the services - the services that are under his supervision under the rules. The Minister responsible for Home Affairs will therefore be supervised, inter alia. compliance with the standards of operation of the Police, Border Guard, the Office for Government Protection, the State Protection Service in the future, and the State Fire Department in connection with the need to ensure respect for human and citizen rights and freedoms and compliance with the principles of professional ethics by the officers of these formations, as well as the correctness of implementation, as I have just said, of operational and cognitive activities and investigations and disciplinary proceedings - regularity. The proper conduct of these cases, the regularity of the proceedings. I answer one of the questions right away. No one will replace, for example. disciplinary activities, disciplinary proceedings, only the supervision of their regularity. Recently, there has been a little, not even a little, public discussion on this subject, and to settle easily, but when there are no mechanisms to respond, it is necessary to create these mechanisms in order to be responsible for this. This is, ladies and gentlemen, of course, the great responsibility of every minister responsible for home affairs, regardless of what names are behind this function today, will hide tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. But it is necessary to establish this courageous civilian supervision mechanism, the real supervision of uniform services, but finally in Poland, after 27 years of democracy, not to pretend that there is no problem. So far, everyone thought there was no problem. The problem is and it needs to be solved, and we just have the courage to face it. Key solutions for this project, in order to implement the Minister's supervision, were foreseen on several levels, as was mentioned in the club speeches. As a result, a coherent system of surveillance of uniformed services is being created. First of all, the Act introduces appropriate arrangements for the competence of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration - when I use this name, I am of course thinking of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, as regards naming and the Law on Departments - defining for the first time in a transparent manner the scope of his supervision and the powers he has in this regard. These changes are complemented by the creation of a new supervisory authority, directly subordinate to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, i.e. it is the inspector of internal surveillance, and it is equipped with powers enabling it, as I stress once again, to assist the Minister in carrying out his duty to supervise his subordinate services. One of the most important tasks of the inspector of internal surveillance will be to identify and detect intentional, prosecuted by accusations of public crimes - and to prevent them - and tax offences committed by officials of services supervised by the Minister and their employees, i.e. phenomena of a clearly negative nature which undermine social trust not only in these services but also in the institutions of the State in general. To the institution of the state. The internal surveillance inspector will be required to present immediately the information and material obtained as a result of the implementation of the tasks which may be relevant to that oversight by the Minister. The Act also introduces appropriate amendments because they are necessary as an instrument, as a way of achieving the objective at organisational level. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Office of Internal Supervision will be set up - which arouses such emotions, and that will not, once again, any new service - through which the inspector of internal supervision will carry out his tasks. This office will be an organisational cell separated for this purpose by the Ministry, so it will not constitute anything else, any new, separate service, but merely an internal organisational structure in the Ministry of Home Affairs. In addition to the internal surveillance officer himself and his alternates, the Internal Surveillance Office will be seconded to carry out the tasks of police officers and Border Guard officers, as well as seconded officials of the Government Protection Office and firefighters of the State Fire Department as experts. The essence of this solution is based on the knowledge of the seconded officers - we will invite the best officers to do so - in the internal functioning of the home service, which is intended to facilitate the achievement of the objectives set before the inspector of internal surveillance. The draft law thus limits to the necessary minimum the financial consequences of the functioning of the Office of Internal Supervision for the State budget, and they are very clearly defined in specific precise figures in the draft law. The provisions of this law also assume that internal affairs cells in the Police and Border Guard, which today operate within these services, will be isolated and will become independent organisational units within these services. At the same time, the nature of the tasks of the new units will remain unchanged. The Chiefs of the Office of the Interior of the Police, the Office of the Home Affairs of the Border Guard, and their alternates will be appointed by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. The point is that they should not be subjected to commandants who oversee their services, because they must be - for the sake of objectivity of their actions - just a service situated, in a competent sense, outside these formations. In the new formula, these offices will of course cooperate in this respect with the inspector of internal surveillance. At the same time, the scope of supervision exercised by the Minister will be extended to supervise the performance of tasks by the Police Office and the Border Guard Office, whose commandants will be required to provide the Minister with information and material which may be of great importance to the Minister of Supervision. I would like to stress, once again, that the solutions proposed in the draft will, on the one hand, implement the supervision exercised by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of his subordinate uniform services and, on the other hand, allow effective and objective verification of the information on irregularities in their operation and the immediate taking of appropriate supervisory and corrective action. This is the first systemic approach for many years to the question of the Minister responsible for home affairs to supervise public policy services, which will also guarantee practical tools for its implementation. It is worth remembering that public policy officials must meet the highest moral and ethical standards which constitute and must be the foundation of public confidence in the institutions of the state. The proposed solutions aim primarily to eliminate from the ranks of services supervised by the Minister responsible for the internal affairs of persons who undermine this social confidence through their improper conduct, behaviour, through activities that are not in line with standards, and it happens that also with legal provisions. I am very surprised in this context - I had to remind you once again, in a nutshell, of what this law is all about - these attacks, this opposition. Once again, the question must be asked whether the opposition does not really care that in services that have such great powers and perform such an important role towards citizens as regards our common security, work, serve clean people, people without reproach, people who do not compromise services and the state. I think we should all care about that. And it is precisely the need to create a mechanism that will help, to protect these rules of conduct, these principles. So I ask the opposition, which so unambiguously declares its opposition to this law, to reflect on it, to rethink it all. By referring to some questions, I would like to say that it is not true that in any way this law falls into the jurisdiction of the court or the prosecution. It's all in power. What has been established in these mechanisms which function in the laws remains in force. But the state - especially some of you, those who speak on this issue - should also well know that in the field of surgical and cognitive activities, because they arouse such strong, big emotions, only part of this aspect is subject to judicial or prosecutorial review. It is that some of them have been defined at the statutory level, but other activities aimed at obtaining information - which I think some of you know well - are defined and regulated at the level of internal instructions and their forms are not subject to direct scrutiny by external authorities. We need to create a surveillance mechanism for them, too. The Minister of the Interior as a member of the government is responsible to the Sejm, to Poles, for the effectiveness of the activities entrusted to him. So we need to create real mechanisms so that he can influence all of this and make it work properly. I'll share that information with you at the end. I predicted it in some way, even in conversations I talked about it. When we came, we took up our functions after winning the elections, after creating the government, there was a great hope that expressed itself, for example. with a clear increase in the number of different occurrences indicating irregularities. It's just that the response mechanism was very difficult. I knew at the time, we knew in the management of the Ministry that if we did not create a mechanism that would enable us to verify all these signals, this information, then in some time first officers, employees, and later citizens would stop addressing us, because they would cease to believe in the reality of the reaction. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is what happens. Therefore, this mechanism will certainly resume this hope and enable it to verify all that is being indicated through such external surveillance with regard to the services. Someone asked if it meant that the police, the police, were working so badly when they needed this mechanism. No, ladies and gentlemen, our services are not malfunctioning. They're functioning well. Thanks to this we have security in Poland. But pathology happens, and you can't not see it, you can't run away from it, you can't hide it. You just have to face it. It is precisely that this bill should give such tools to deal with what is wrong, to face and eliminate these cases from our services. You counted us - me, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak - a state from what happened at the police station in Wrocław. This thread was coming back today. You've said a lot of things that indicate that, unfortunately, you don't know the rules -- which we didn't set up. They were established long before us, as far as the commandants are concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, the rules and powers that are in force today need to be examined well. If any of you want us to try to get us to exceed our powers, that's not gonna work. No, we have to act within the law. These rules are indeed broadening the minister's powers so that he can answer simply for all these actions of eliminating irregularities. You can't accuse someone of something he didn't do if he couldn't do it because he didn't have legal opportunity. These possibilities need to be given simply. And this bill creates these possibilities. I'm still looking at my notes. It's hard, because here were rather political reflections than questions. Someone repeated this thread: why the bill, why the external mechanism. I think I've answered that question several times already. To make it objective and effective. That's what it's for. Ladies and gentlemen, the law mainly concerns, of course... exclusively, not mainly, the services, i.e. officers and employees, but in this area in which these services are entitled to operational and exploratory activities conducted not only towards officers, but also towards citizens, we must supervise the correctness of all proceedings, because without supervision it can be very dangerous. I would not like - and none of your fellow Members would want this - to be used without supervision, without control, with such secret tools as we do not know about. Really, ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be better if this were supervised when it came to the correctness of the procedure. Once again, I stress - they will not lead the police, behind the Border Guard, the inspectors of the Internal Security Bureau of these activities. They will oversee the proper conduct of these activities, if necessary, by the officers. And to the officers in the area provided for by the law, they will also be able to take these actions. So that please do not have any concern that a tool is being created that can be dangerous in terms of civil rights. On the contrary, these instruments aim to uphold civil rights, so that no one is tempted to abuse those powers which have servants, simply. So I ask you to think about all this again and I would rather expect - I think Poles would expect it too - that the entire opposition, if it wants to be substantive, would support this bill. Or else we're gonna say, "You're defending pathology." [[Minister, the criteria...]] You're defending pathology. The criteria are set out in the Act. You didn't read that article I quoted yesterday. I was quoting him yesterday. And again... [[Voice from the Chamber: Minister, supervision is exercised by the courts.]] But you're yours again, of course. You have to give yours. You wrote it to yourself, and you have to give it to yourself because it's so... [[I'd like you to list these criteria for me.]] ...is the demand of your party. You just have to use the generals and give the same phrases you use again. You gave the clichés here, sir. [[Replace them.]] And the provisions in the bill clearly answer your question. I'm gonna read the bill now? Take a look at the bill. Yesterday I was quoting those records, telling you what it was about. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems ridiculous that you expect me to calculate how many executive officers listed in the Act may be involved. It will apply to them, where necessary, as a result of supervision of regularity, cleanness of activities, compliance with criteria, compliance with standards by officers who are either prepared to appoint or perform managerial functions. Someone can be checked, clean at first, and something can happen along the way. What, you want us to stop control? Well, ladies and gentlemen, you don't want that, do you? Please, really consider your position, because it's just completely incomprehensible to me. Your Marshal, thank you very much and I hope that in the third reading the entire Seym hall of this important, necessary, epoch-like, I would say, a law which finally creates a mechanism of civil oversight of uniform services, will support and approve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u363	Thank you very much. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee of Arkadiusz Czartoryski to refer to the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u364	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I would like to refer to two questions - Mr Mark Wójcik and Mr Mirosław Suchon - concerning the consultation of trade unions, and in principle, as Mr Marek Wójcik explained, from the trade union federation bureau, and from Article. 7. As far as consultations are concerned, I, ladies and gentlemen, respect very carefully, and also in this case I have complied with the obligation of prior invitation to cooperate and work with the Commission for the Administration and Internal Affairs of trade unions. Trade unions have participated at every stage of our work, as you know very well. All the votes that appeared at a meeting or subcommittee or committee on the part of trade unions have been heard and I do not feel any discomfort from discrimination against trade unions in this debate that took place in the Sejm. The form of consultation can be very different, including the fact that trade unions participate in the work of the subcommittee. All trade unions were invited, not only to the police, but also to other services. Besides, you will remember very well that representatives of trade unions have spoken. I have before me the content of the existing law and the proposed provisions as regards the article. 7, which Mr Marek Wójcik pointed out. Art. 7, which consists of two points, in terms of old and new sounds, differs only by one note. Namely in the article. Point 7 (1) is stated that the organisational units of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the civil protection organizational unit, the Police, the Border Guard, the State Fire Guard and the Government Protection Office - and only this Office of Government Protection - are added - and the trade unions, officers, firefighters and employees of these units cannot participate in any activity, including economic activities, if this activity could lead to the use of official authority. This record of trade unions is in both the new statutory record and the old one. With regard to trade unions, Article. 7 neither point 1 nor point 2 shall be amended. But it's not like I have all the knowledge here right now. I welcome, as I understand, the appeal of President Mark Wójcik and I will specifically ask the trade unions to consult on this issue tomorrow, because there may be some kind of misunderstanding here. I have both documents in front of me, and I see that the Office for Government Protection has been added, and in the area of trade unions there is nothing new in this article. I do not deny that trade unions may have doubts as regards their own economic activity, which they are pursuing, if that activity could lead to the use of official authority, service information or public funds for non-service purposes or in a manner contrary to their intended purpose. This is undoubtedly a limitation, only that is basically the specialty of the service. Officers who are members of trade unions, however, have knowledge and so far such a restriction has been in place in this law. It seems to have been written down after reflection. If it is the will to delete these rules now, I will be happy to hear again, but I would also like to hear the arguments of trade unions once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u365	Thank you very much. [[Your Marshal...]] Yes? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u366	Dear Marshal! I'm not gonna be as mean as the Minister because I'd have to be more mean. I therefore ask the Marshal to oblige the Minister to answer the question in writing, because, first, he did not answer the question, but he tried to give me a crazy answer, and secondly, it has nothing to do with the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u367	Thank you very much. I'm closing... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: No, then I will answer.]] But I understand you can answer that question in writing. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: But this is in writing.]] I ask that the Minister respond in writing to the Member. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Your Marshal, also in writing, but... because I just have the right.]] [[I'm asking for a written answer.]] We won't be discussing any more, please in writing... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: But your marshal, in writing I will prepare this...]] Great, that's very... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński:...has my answer. Give me the floor.]] You're welcome, Minister. But I don't want us having a discussion here anymore because I wanted to close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u368	I understand, Marshal. Thank you for giving the floor, because I want to quote...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u369	You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...a fragment of the bill, if the Member so requests. But read this, yes. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Now, Marshal, don't rush me, it won't take long. Change 6. - Art. 11a: The Internal Surveillance Inspector shall be the authority by which the Minister responsible for Home Affairs supervises or supervises his services, the police officers, the Border Guard and the Government Protection Office and the firefighters of the State Fire Department, as well as the staff employed in those services, hereinafter referred to as'supervised entities'. And lips. In order to shorten point 3, he says that the internal supervision officer's tasks include: - including point 2 - verification, on the basis of information, including classified information, held by the services and entities subordinate or supervised by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, the Minister responsible for Public Finance, the Minister for National Defence and the Minister of Justice and the data contained in their collections, registers, records and databases, including classified information. And then the candidates for the post of officers are replaced, who is involved in terms of personal and functional scope. That is all, these are the criteria, sir, please really accept it. [[No, these are tasks, not criteria.]] Thank you, Marshal. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration shall be responsible for all activities of the uniformed services, both those in their competence and for abuse and pathology. He answers to the whole nation, citizens, voters. Like everyone else, he is accounted for by his effectiveness. He is blamed for the scandals and irregularities in the police or other formations, as well as for the delay in explaining these scandals. However, there is no doubt that he has not so far had the appropriate instruments to supervise his subordinate services. This draft law provides for the provision of this instrument to the appropriate minister. By changing the way of supervision of operational and cognitive activities, it is given the opportunity to access information so that it can perform its function better and more efficiently. It will increase its impact on the proper functioning of the services and will be able to react more quickly to the events. Situations such as the tragedy that took place at the Wrocław police station confirm that the adoption of new regulations is needed. That it is necessary to increase control in order to eliminate such abuses and, above all, prevent them. It is worth noting that the novel does not change the competence of individual bodies. The bill is not intended to involve uniformed services in a political dispute or take command. In conclusion, I share the view that civilian oversight of services must be realistic and that the regulations contained in this project serve this purpose. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u371	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act (Print No 1930). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Paul Gruza to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u372	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a government bill on the public disclosure of certain parameters related to corporate tax settlement by some taxpayers. We are regularly surprised by information about tax havens, international holding structures with questionable economic justification. The data of consultancy firms leaks out, taxpayers' data leaks out, settlements between economic operators leaks out. There are so-called rankings in the press. taxpayers paying these or other public contributions to the budget. We believe that projects carried out at international level, e.g. in the OECD, concerning the introduction of elements of tax transparency, including international, entitle us, and justify this, to present a bill that seeks to make public, in a simplified way, the value of the paid income tax on the largest entrepreneurs. Such solutions are present in several European countries, here the Danish or Swedish examples can be used. These figures today can be read with some error from the financial statements that are public. We want to publish precise data to be the subject of, on the one hand, the assessment of society, on the other hand, the subject of an economic analysis of scientists. The bill's pretty simple. We have a range of taxpayers whose selected data we want to declassify. We're talking about tax capital groups here. Unfortunately, we have met with a situation in which there have been very significant abuses in the capital groups and aggressive tax optimisation, which seems to be almost certain of this, going beyond the legal framework allowed. Over recent years, we have probably lost a lot of billions of budget revenue. That's one group covered. with the publicity. This project also provides for the publicisation of tax parameters for taxpayers whose revenue in the year exceeds EUR 50 million, these are the largest companies. With regard to the scope of this disclosure, we are talking here about basic criteria such as income, costs, tax base and the value of the tax itself. We want to make this data public in some time-space back, we want to reach a tax limitation period of five years. The next parameter we want to share is certain parameters of such an effective tax rate. This is optional, depending on whether such information can be calculated. The project, as is currently proposed, concerns around 2 000. the largest economic operators or 2 000. the largest corporate income tax payers. The tax paid by these entities is around 60% the total revenue from this revenue. It seems that the publication of this data will allow for a fuller discussion of the public on corporate income taxes in Poland and we hope that it will contribute to the wave of seals of this tax in the European Union, in the OECD to seal this source of budgetary revenue in Poland. I would also like to say that, at European Union level, the so-called "publicity" is being considered. country by country reporting, which comes down to what we are proposing here, only internationally, so that the European citizen has the right to know how a corporation puts tax burden on all countries of the European Union and wider. Such discussions are being held at European Union level. We are ahead of this movement by proposing to make this value of tax public in Poland. However, as I said, we believe that this instrument has been introduced in other countries and in some ways has a role to play. We are talking here about countries such as the countries of Scandinavia. I am therefore asking for a fair approach to the government project and its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u373	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u374	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, print no. 1930, provides that the Minister of Development and Finance will be able to make public CIT taxpayers' data resulting from the tax returns submitted. The scope of the data that will be available to the public is as follows: the name and VAT of the taxable person, the tax year, the amount of revenue and the cost of obtaining revenue, the income of the taxable person, the tax base and the CIT tax. According to the project, the public disclosure of tax data relates to taxable persons for whom, for the tax year for which the information is to be published, the value of revenue exceeded the amount in PLN corresponding to the equivalent of EUR 50 million, as well as taxable persons having the tax status of the group, regardless of the level of income achieved by that group. As is apparent from the OSR project, the condition concerning the above-mentioned condition is fulfilled. the level of revenue meets around 2 000. taxpayers. In addition, there are about 60 tax groups of capital. The proposed provisions provide for the possibility for the taxable person to submit a request for the deletion or rectification of the data, which will include inter alia. justification. If such a request is not taken into account, the Minister for Development and Finance will issue a negative decision if this would result in non-compliance with the facts. The data to be made public will be updated periodically. The project provides for quarterly updates as at the first day of the month in which the quarter of the calendar year ends. It should be stressed that the draft shows that the tax data disclosed to the public will not infringe the tax confidentiality rules. The new regulations will apply from the tax year which started before 1 January 2018 and will end after 31 December 2017. The draft also proposes that the data of taxable persons arising from the statements for earlier tax years, starting from the tax year beginning after December 2011. This deadline is linked to the period of limitation of tax obligations provided for in the Tax Order. The solutions proposed in the draft law are to enter into force on 1 January 2018. The regulations provided for in the draft law are part of the actions undertaken both in Poland and in the international arena. They are an example of a solution that responds to the global problem of tax avoidance and erosion of the tax base of the countries where the income is generated. This problem has been noticed, among others. by the OECD, the G20 or the European Union. The project is in line with the trend of increasing citizens' awareness of the financial basis of the State's activities, as well as the actions undertaken by international bodies. The work on the annual accounts, consolidated accounts and related reports of certain types of entities concerning the disclosure of income tax information by certain entities and branches is being carried out within the European Union, as already mentioned by the Minister. These solutions are therefore intended to support action to combat aggressive tax planning, which the European Commission has recognised as one of the key political priorities of the European Union in implementing the strategy for a fair and effective corporate tax system in the European Union. According to the justification of the draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the solution introduced by this project, which provides for the publication of tax data on individual taxpayers, is already in place in these countries. I think that being in a group of countries that are the first to introduce new solutions makes our country stand out. Therefore, I think that further proceding will result in this project of supporters and will be carried out in an efficient and efficient manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u375	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the government draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, print no. 1930. The government draft law introduces an obligation for the Minister for Public Finance to publish in the Public Information Bulletin the tax data of the largest entities - corporate tax payers whose annual income exceeds the equivalent of EUR 50 million, and the taxpayers of capital groups - regardless of the amount of income they generate. It follows from the justification of the draft law that this obligation currently applies to around 2 000. taxpayers according to the level of income and about 60 tax groups. Individual data include, among others: information on the amount of revenue earned in the tax year, the costs incurred, the income earned, the tax base and the amount of tax due. The published data are further updated quarterly. Individual data of the taxpayer shall be published by 30 September each year for a period of 5 years. The amendments to the Act aim to increase taxpayers' tendency to properly comply with tax obligations. The proposed instrument is one of the solutions to the global problem of tax avoidance. This is an international problem which is limited by the objective of international bodies such as the G20, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Union. Solutions for the publication of tax data on individual taxpayers are already gradually being implemented in some countries of the European Union. It should be stressed that, in the current legal state, the accounting law requires economic operators to submit to the National Courts of Auditors, inter alia. financial statements containing business data and financial results. This register shall be made public. The bill, as I have already mentioned, is aimed at changing taxpayers' attitudes. On the one hand, it is intended to encourage the proper fulfilment of tax obligations and, on the other hand, through enhanced public control of taxes paid by companies, it should be possible to restore citizens' confidence in tax systems. Business also needs to strengthen the sense of social responsibility and pride in being able to participate in improving society's well-being. Business understanding of its important role in this area is essential and increasingly common among economic bodies in the world. The proposed solutions include taxpayers whose impact on the economy and the state budget is important from the point of view of their position on the market as well as their potential impact on the revenue of the State budget. As the Minister said, it is 60% CIT. However, the introduction of high standards in tax proceedings and the expectation of increasing taxpayers' awareness must be a mutual action, and therefore also a government. Much greater results can be achieved when business conditions are constantly improved, not just by imposing additional obligations. However, from the last published report of the World Bank Doing Business, the conditions for doing business in Poland have deteriorated. Poland fell in this ranking from 24th to 27th place in 2017. Also in the ranking of the competitiveness of the economy, published by the World Economic Forum, our country fell to 39th place from 36th place. In the next ranking, the transparency of the law, we take 118th place in 137 countries. These are worrying phenomena which require deep reflection, detailed analysis and concrete government action to improve this situation. By appealing for such action, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of directing the bill to further legislative work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u377	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz. 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u378	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on the 1930 amendment of the Corporate Income Tax Act. And here we should ask ourselves: Um, when was the last time we changed the Corporate Income Tax Act? I think it was two weeks ago at the last meeting. It's the same thing all the time. The same was true with the bailiffs when I first pointed out to the Council of Ministers that these laws are changing so often that we are basically all here like a worker running around with an empty wheelbarrow who doesn't even have time to load bricks. And now, at the last meeting, we have introduced one amendment to this law, and after two weeks we are introducing another one. Hands down, Minister. But I'll move on to more substantive comments. You are proposing a solution, which is an interesting solution. It could be described more or less in such a way that the Minister says: I would like to see, and the Sejm has to take off its pants from the largest entrepreneurs in Poland, who have the biggest income. It is so interesting that I remember that once, when we had the opportunity to take part in the debate in the Polish Radio, the Minister pointed out that it was important for the state to have an effective tax administration. I understand that an indication in the public register of those who pay a lot and pay little is, in fact, aimed at stigmatizing those who pay little. In fact, the goal seems noble, because the point is that entrepreneurs don't pay so much as they just pay fairly. If someone in Poland runs a business, they make money from it, then pay taxes here too. It's obvious. Therefore, with regard to the introduction of this public register, publicly available, in which the Minister will present entrepreneurs who earn more than EUR 50 million, plus capital groups, this seems appropriate. But the question should be asked: What about those entrepreneurs who will not want to take off those proverbial pants? Of course, there is also a record that capital groups, regardless of the level of income, can or will be subject to this entry and publication of data about their income and what percentage of taxes they pay de facto in Poland, but on the other hand, Minister, who like who, but tax advisors, patrons will already be able to show that those who do not want to show, formally from the Polish market will disappear, but this does not mean that different trading networks, large companies from Poland will disappear, because as brands they will still function, but maybe within smaller companies that will not exceed this threshold. And last but not least, perhaps strongly said, but honestly: ladies and gentlemen, we are in a war, in a tax war. On the one hand, I understand that the Minister represents such a fiscal point of view here, which is that we want to introduce as much tax money as possible into the state budget. That's your role. But here's the question: Wouldn't this money affect the state budget more if we had lower taxes? It's pretty obvious. I will not refer here to various economic theories, but in a situation where we have taxes in Poland so high that Poland as a country is unattractive to entrepreneurs, for investors, they will invest their money in other countries. Take a look, for example. Czech Republic, our southern neighbour. There are completely different solutions. Maybe it's worth following their example. I am from Opole region, from which many entrepreneurs conduct their business in Poland, but are formally registered in the Czech Republic. In Warsaw, every other luxury car rides on Czech registration numbers. What's that? Suddenly the Czechs loved Poland so much and came to Poland to run business? No, these are Poles who simply pay more... I didn't want to say what it is, but those who are more profitable, who are smart enough to know that formally doing business in the Czech Republic can simply pay less tax. So, Minister, the appeal on the occasion of this law: perhaps it is worth considering further tax changes, their reduction in order for Poland to become - let's not be afraid to use this term - a tax paradise. If Poland were a tax haven, we would not have to resort to such records that someone should be stigmatized somewhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u379	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Pampuch made a statement in writing. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present my position on the government's draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act. The project amends the Corporate Income Tax Act of 15 February 1992. It allows the Finance Minister to make public through the Public Information Bulletin information containing tax data of certain taxpayers. This applies to large taxpayers whose income in the previous year exceeded the amount in PLN corresponding to the equivalent of EUR 50 million and to taxable persons acting in the form of a tax group, regardless of the amount of income generated by that group. The proposal proposes that tax data be published annually until 30 September of the year following the end of the tax year of the taxpayer concerned and updated quarterly on the first day of the month in which the quarter ends. In addition, the project assumes the provision of information from the statements for earlier tax years, starting in 2011. In the explanatory memorandum of the project, the government points to an increase in awareness, an increase in taxpayers' tendency to meet their obligations properly, as well as the introduction of public control as to whether taxes are paid primarily where profits are generated. The justification for the project is unconvincing to me. Given that according to the Accounting Act, entrepreneurs are obliged to submit to the National Court Register, inter alia. financial statements, additional information is not necessary, but merely a sign of increased bureaucracy. The KRS shall be an open register. Everyone shall have the right to access the data contained therein, the activities of the entity concerned, the financial results of that activity, as well as the income tax information of all registered companies. We are generally opposed to harassing entrepreneurs with excess bureaucracy. The only argument in favour of this project is that it concerns only large companies with an international form of settlement. In numbers, the government determines this at 2,000. taxpayers with revenues in excess of EUR 50 million and 61 tax capital groups. They are certainly companies with an efficient legal and accounting department, and public audit of accounts, often of an international nature, is quite important. And because of this last argument, I will not say that I am against it, and I will say, let the project go to further work in the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u381	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Ireneusz Gaina has put his position in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come up with a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government of this Act wants to disclose tax data about 4.5 thousand. companies operating in Poland. How does this relate to the tax-based secret? Another thing that's dangerous in this bill. Its provisions do not take into account the natural differences in the level of profit and margin of companies and companies from different industries. This may mislead the public and lead to a suspicion of tax avoidance. I would like to ask why the comments made by the tax board on similar content were not taken into account during the opinion of the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u383	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u384	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You write that the effect of the reform is to have a positive impact on the functioning and development of micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. Microentrepreneurs are single, double, triple companies. The advantage is to be derived from the limitation of large taxpayers' action to allow such tax planning, which could result in tax avoidance. I would very much ask the Minister to explain in detail what this benefit is for these micro-entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u385	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u386	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you give examples from other European countries: Sweden and Denmark in the justification for the bill amending the Corporate Income Tax Act. What about the other countries? As in other countries, e.g. Germany, France or Italy? I'm very curious about that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u387	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Brief question: What made it clear that this limit was set at EUR 50 million? Is it just that it's like this, let's say, equal to the amount, or did some entities just get it or didn't get it? It is indicated that with this limit of EUR 50 million about 2 000. entrepreneurs will be caught by this limit and will be included in this register. If the Minister is able to answer, I would appreciate it. And what if we were, for example? This amount was raised to 60 or 70 or reduced to 40 million euros, how would this affect the size of this register? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u389	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The explanatory memorandum states: Publicising the tax data of the largest taxpayers, CIT taxpayers, is intended to indirectly contribute to the proper fulfilment of their tax obligations. It is, by its nature, a soft instrument which does not guarantee an increase in CIT income. Indeed, it seems that we have a little bit of a rain spell here, because the result of such soft solutions is usually none. On the other hand, what is glorious is appealing to civic consciousness. This is extremely valuable, and it can also be expected that such coordinated action by countries for which the ATAD Directive is a framework for action can bring good results. I would therefore like to ask about this directive and its implementation, because at the previous meeting of the Sejm we had a law on amending the Act on personal income tax - I do not read the whole title because it was long: [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will be the next steps because this seems to be just a modest prelude? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u391	Thank you very much. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Paweł Gruza. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the first question about tax secrecy, the project directly eliminates tax secrecy in the scope of this law, i.e. we are talking about the basic categories of tax settlement. Therefore, the secret will be excluded and disclosure will, of course, take place without breaking the tax confidentiality in this respect. Question two: Why do we think micro-entrepreneurs or smaller entrepreneurs will benefit from this bill? If the law softly, as presented, leads to a better feasibility and collection of tax on large corporations, the conditions of competition will improve. I mean. if very large, international companies with full international capacity to optimise their accounts do not make full use of these opportunities, they will be less profitable for small and medium-sized enterprises which do not have those opportunities for international optimisation. Because they either come from the assumption of some fiscal patriotism, or they don't want to take the risk of such leaks of information as we have now in the case of Lux Leaks, Paradise Papers and Panama Papers, and they pay 19% today. from its operating profit in Poland. International companies obviously have more opportunities to optimize this. If this playing field gets even, the environment where micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will move will be better. What's it like in other countries? We have prepared an assessment of those solutions where publicity takes place. I understand that in other countries we have the same publicity as in Poland, i.e. through financial statements, which, I remind you, have a position: income tax, they also have a category: tax assets. For people with accounting and tax proficiency it is possible to decrypt the value of tax paid in individual years from public data already today - in Poland and in other countries. Therefore, unless there is a direct sharing of tax information in other countries outside Denmark and Sweden with - let's call it - the public, with society, but in other countries, also indirectly, these data are available. We have also looked at, for example, the UK, where a very comprehensive document presenting the so-called annual accounts is part of the annual accounts. the taxpayer's tax risk profile. It is a document that also shows how much a company pays in general tax in the UK. To do this, we need to write an explanation of why so much, why part of the income is left in the UK or transferred. You have to write what is the approach to the so-called. the tax risk, i.e. to show on a percentage basis how much risk a corporation considers acceptable to challenge a given tax settlement. And surprisingly, after publishing such documents, it turned out that corporations have a tolerance of 70%. risk. Which once again led to a social reaction to the fact that this tax profile in the UK is changing in terms of: improving. If we are talking about the number of taxpayers, we obviously have full knowledge of this. And here, returning to the comment on the trousers, I would like to assure you that the Minister knows what is behind the clothes. [[But he wants to show others.]] But we want to share this information in a civilised, European and controlled way, so this is not about our curiosity, because we have this data and I can say that if this threshold of 50 million, which is the threshold of turnover or the income of a large entrepreneur in the definition of business activity and the Freedom of Business Act... We only accept the working threshold, because this is an objective criterion visible to us in declarations, meaning we simply refer to this income category, tax - it is easy for us to object. And it's actually about 2,000. taxpayers, which accounts for around 60% the total revenue from this revenue. We were also initially considering a percentage approach to this topic and considering, for example, the top 1% taxpayers, which in turn represents approximately 4.5 thousand. entities and more than 70% the entire income tax. We accepted this threshold of EUR 50 million simply as a threshold quite similar to this category of large entrepreneur within the meaning of other laws, although this is not an ideal transfer of this definition. Last remark on the effectiveness of the soft instrument. We believe that the electorate, the citizen, the society should be equipped with this knowledge, e.g. everyone can assess the fact that the State owns companies of the Treasury. There are voices that all banks, other Orlens, should be privatized immediately. I hope, including the ranking of taxpayers, which we will make public, that state-owned companies are extremely economically effective and efficient against all kinds of assumptions and contribute significant amounts to income tax, much more important than companies already privatized or private from the start, which carry out turnovers higher than those state-owned companies. I therefore hope that this will contribute to a more complete and substantive discussion on these issues as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u393	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u394	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the government bill amending the Corporate Income Tax Act. The aim of the project is to introduce a regulation enabling the Finance Minister to make public information containing tax data resulting from CIT tax returns submitted by taxpayers. It is intended to cover entities with an annual income exceeding the equivalent of EUR 50 million as well as taxable persons acting in the form of a tax group. This is intended to be an instrument of a soft nature indirectly contributing to an increase in taxpayers' tendency to properly comply with their tax obligations. The applicant itself acknowledges that this solution does not guarantee an increase in CIT revenue. The greatest advantage of the submitted project is the attempt to introduce public controls on tax payments where profits are generated, thereby countering tax optimisation. Despite the undoubtedly good intentions of the applicants, the submitted project creates a risk of achieving completely different results from the planned ones. The position of honest taxpayers may be shaken by dishonest entities that continue to conduct creative accounting and thus prevent their tax information from being made public. A more serious problem is the risk of breaching the constitutional rule of the democratic rule of law expressed in Article. 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The draft submitted allows the provision of tax information to the public by repealing the tax confidentiality rules with effect from 1 January 2012. We are dealing here with an unacceptable case of reverse action. The Modern Club considers that this provision should be amended in the course of further work on the Law. As I mentioned earlier, the draft law submitted has the opportunity to contribute positively to the correct fulfilment of tax obligations by large companies and groups of capital and introduces public control. Therefore, despite some reservations, the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of directing the project to further work in committee, in which we hope amendments will be made.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, print no. 1930. It should be noted that the background to the bill is subsequently disclosed by journalists in large tax cases: Lux Leaks, Panama Papers, and recently Paradise Papers. In view of the extremely negative and, at the same time, condemning the aforementioned. We join the call of Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to ensure that the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union take immediate action to end the activities of tax havens, as they generate billions of unpaid taxes every year, which reduce the budgets of the Member States. We share the view expressed by the Deputy Prime Minister in the PAP communication, indicating that tax frameworks are unbuilt hospitals and roads in Poland, Italy, Slovakia or Spain. Paradise for the few is a drop in the standard of living for 99% of societies. The draft Law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act creates a new instrument for State control in the form of publicising the tax data of the largest entities - CIT taxpayers - which is intended to indirectly contribute to raising taxpayers' awareness of the need to comply with their tax obligations. Similar solutions introduced by other countries were a response to the problem of tax avoidance and erosion of the tax base of countries, which was recognised by the countries concentrated in the G20, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, and also by the European Union. At the same time, it should be noted that the phenomenon of tax avoidance unfortunately has a very strong basis in global interest groups relating to private trust funds, pension funds and sovereign funds of authoritarian countries. This creates a high risk of integrating entire supply chains in many sectors of the world economy to build global monopolies or cartels. Thus we can talk about the risk of total vertical economic control by global funds over strategic sectors of the world economy. The mechanism for maximising profits makes global companies controlled by the above mentioned. funds do not pay taxes on profits due to tax optimization. In particular, the mechanism for the manipulation of licences in Luxembourg, the Netherlands or Ireland is known. For example, dominant American online companies usually pay a tax below a fraction of the percentage. In the margins of reflection on the bill, the question arises as to whether Commissioner Frans Timmermans' activity in the search for a violation of the rule of law in Poland has nothing to do with the desire to divert attention from billions of tax frauds in his native Netherlands. In view of the above, it is advisable for Polish diplomacy to engage in increased activity towards the European Union in order to clarify the role of EU Commissioners in the tax fraud practice described by the world media. The bill was consulted with social organisations and business representatives. It did not raise any major controversy and the comments were rather more precise in the proposed regulation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Free and Solidarni Circle explicitly supports the government bill amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, which will improve the transparency of the Polish economy with regard to global financial transfers carried out by the largest international economic operators.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u396	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Act on Corporate Income Tax, contained in print no. 1930, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty Act (Print No 1963). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The draft law on the amendment of the excise duty Act submitted to the Sejm introduces taxation of new categories of products with excise duty - electronic cigarette liquids and novelty products as from 1 January 2018. Both electronic cigarettes using liquid for the consumption of steam and novelty products containing tobacco in their composition, which, when heated, provides nicotine in the form of steam, are a substitute for traditional tobacco products, and therefore the main objective of the project is to guarantee equal tax treatment for traders active in the traditional tobacco industry and entities in the electronic cigarettes and novelty industries. We also expect that the measures taken on the basis of the proposed rules will affect the regulation of the market for electronic cigarettes and novelty products and increase consumer safety. Thanks to the excise mark, the banner applied to the packaging of e-cigarettes and novelty products, consumers will be able to verify the legality of the product themselves at the time of purchase. The proposed project assumes an electronic cigarette liquid rate of 50 gr per ml and 141,29 PLN per kilogram and 31,41% weighted average retail selling price of smoking tobacco, approx. PLN 300 per kilogram. These are moderate rates against the background of European countries. Today, as many as 13 EU countries have taxed innovative products and nine countries have taxed electronic cigarette liquid. Against the expectations of the e-cigarette and novelty industry, the bill provides for exemption from the obligation to mark excise marks for a period of one year of electronic cigarette and novelty products on the market. In addition, the project introduces a three-month transitional period for obtaining a tax warehouse permit. It is also worth mentioning that in the course of the work, already in the Council of Ministers, the rate of excise duty on e-cigarettes was reduced in relation to the original project from PLN 0.7 to PLN 0.5. Although the e-cigarette market is a young but stable market, with a well-established number of users, which is already in the process of adapting to the new requirements of the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products, i.e. the obligation to register products and the prohibition to sell on the Internet and to persons under the age of 18, as well as to prohibit the use of e-cigarettes in public places. Please also note that the above law treats electronic cigarettes and novel products as products linked to traditional tobacco products. According to the draft law amending the excise duty Act, electronic cigarette and novelty products will be taxed as substitute for tobacco products. As regards the risk of an increase in the price of newly taxed products, note that a traditional tobacco smoker, assuming he smokes a pack of cigarettes a day, spends about 5 000 each year. zł. On the other hand, the average consumer of e-cigarette fluid consumes about 1 l of e-cigarette per year. The value of 1 l of electronic cigarette liquid, including excise duty, will be approx. $1,600. So it's still the electronic cigarettes that will be more attractive. economically for the consumer. To sum up the above, I would like to stress that the draft law amending the excise duty law is in line with the need to align the business conditions in the tobacco industry and related products such as electronic cigarette fluid and novelty products. The project also aims to ensure that consumers supplying these products from legal sources are protected by excise marks and subject to customs-treasure checks, so that they can be easily distinguished from products without a guarantee of quality. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, I propose the adoption of a draft law amending the excise duty law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u398	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bubula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u399	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law, print no. 1963. The opinion is positive, we are in favour of referring this proposal to the Parliamentary Committee. The government justifies the entry into excise duty of two new categories of products, as the Minister has just said, electronic cigarette liquids and so-called. innovative products replacing traditional cigarettes and other tobacco products, the fact that the use by consumers of products not subject to excise duty is at the expense of the consumption of goods subject to excise duty. These products belong to the category of drugs which the State wishes to control better the production, movement and sale process. The introduction of an obligation to flag products replacing traditional tobacco products will facilitate the legality of the origin of this increasingly popular use, which is not irrelevant in terms of the quality of these products, their impact on the health of citizens and the prevention of illicit trade in such products. It should be agreed with the Government's argument that the progressive social process of replacing traditional tobacco products with their electronic counterparts applied in a different way than incineration leads consequently to a decrease in the level of consumers' use of excise goods, namely traditional tobacco products, and consequently to a decrease in the revenue of the state budget for this purpose. Although you can't see it yet, in the future such a trend may occur. The amendment of the Act should therefore be regarded as a necessary stabilisation of excise revenue for this reason, not as an increase in excise duty, especially since the tax dimension, as the Minister has just said, is to be only 50 gr per ml of electronic cigarette liquid, which is at a much lower rate than in other European countries. According to the justification, the additional revenue to the state budget for excise duty on electronic cigarette liquid will amount to about PLN 75 million per year. We should ensure that the state budget is sustainable and that not only is it possible to implement the necessary expenditure, and that expectations are very high in many areas, let us mention the need for health protection, but also in order to reduce the budget deficit and, consequently, to pursue a sustainable budget. Therefore, the search for income in those places where we are dealing with drugs replacing traditional cigarettes seems to be one of the least socially harmful methods. An important argument in the discussion is also that the taxation of products replacing traditional nicotine and tobacco products is introduced or is being introduced in many other European countries. The Minister mentioned that 13 countries were taxing innovative products, and for the nine countries to which Italy, Portugal, Finland, Hungary, Slovenia, Romania, Greece, Serbia, Latvia and Croatia belong, a tax on electronic cigarette liquid was introduced. The rates proposed in Poland do not differ in proportion from those in other countries, and as the Minister pointed out, they were even reduced at the stage of government work. The project has undergone a broad public consultation at the stage of government work, so it is not introduced without preparation, and its submission to the Sejm was preceded by in-depth impact analyses, which is also visible in a very comprehensive justification for the printing submitted no. 1963. For these reasons, we believe that work should be started in the Committee on Public Finance, where, we hope, there will also be a wide range of problems regarding the excise tax base, the reasons for the changes in excise revenue to the state budget and all the elements relating to the introduction of this tax, which will have an effect on companies involved in the marketing of such products, as well as for consumers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u400	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u401	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the draft law amending the excise duty law, and in fact on the law imposing a new tax. It is hard to disagree with the argument used in the bill that e-cigarettes and novelty products are drugs. As a rule, here is full clarity and agreement. The Civic Platform Club agrees that drugs should be subject to excise duty. Only when a new tax is introduced, the whole point is that the tax introduced is effective. That is, the introduction of excise duty on novel products, e-cigarettes is for many reasons a good idea - because of recording, accessibility, information also for young people, because it is a simple information especially for young people, that these are drugs that contain tobacco. And here's the full agreement. The question, however, is how to do this so that it has a good effect. Both the Minister and the rapporteur referred to the introduction of this tax in other countries, an excise duty was introduced on novel products and e-cigarettes. Only that we should be guided by what has happened in other countries and benefit from these experiences. These experiences show that in Portugal, following the introduction of excise duties, the volume of legal sales of liquids fell by more than 90%, in Italy, the tax on liquids was supposed to give EUR 86 million to the budget, and that in 2015 5 million were collected from this EUR 86 million. I believe that the exact same mechanism will take place in our country. Because, in fact, this law and the amount of excise duty that you are proposing, you are opening the way, first, to the grey zone - because the market is going to move to the grey zone, for many reasons, which I am about to say - secondly, to monopolize. There are a lot of small entrepreneurs who are currently manufacturing mainly liquid for e-cigarettes. It is worth mentioning here that the market is new, as was also mentioned, and this market is developing, but this market is a lot of small entrepreneurs who are very sensitive to such changes. And the research shows, and it's research on both e-cigarettes, which are the ones that contain liquid... This is an English study, an analysis by Public Health England, which says that e-cigarettes are 95%. It's safer. On the other hand, scientists from the Institute of Experimental Biology of the Polish Academy of Sciences have proved that the heating of tobacco, i.e. these novel products, has a much less negative effect on the body's cells. Of course, we don't have long-term research. This is the problem that products are new and we are not able to assess today what this will have to do in 20 years' time. On the other hand, based on reliable research - because these are serious institutions, these are not research carried out by companies, only these are research carried out by the Polish Academy of Sciences - it can be assumed that it is worth to allow the development of this market, because thanks to e-cigarettes and innovative products many people leave smoking traditional cigarettes. At the same time, the increase in price - because it is on a 10-millimeter bottle of 5 PLN, that is a significant increase in the price for people who use it - will cause that very often they may return to traditional cigarettes, and this will result in an increase in costs in health care, so we will have a loop. Monopolising, unfortunately, crowding out small businesses by imposing on them outside of excise duty... There are administrative and organisational adjustment costs ranging from 50 to 100,000. zł, i.e. in the case of small enterprises, in terms of the time which they have to adapt, this is absolutely impossible to implement. The Member has said, and I have also noticed that this is a search for income. Yeah, but -- because it's obvious that this is a search for income -- I'm telling you right now, it's not going to be that kind of income, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're assuming 75 million through the gray zone. The Civic Platform is in favour of directing the project to further work, during which we will report amendments. I hope that these amendments will be adopted, otherwise this bill will really do no good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u402	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law amending the excise duty Act. The project envisages a regulation on excise taxation of two new categories of products: electronic cigarette liquids and novelty products. The industry of electronic cigarette liquids in Poland consists of dozens of manufacturers, about 1600 shops and a whole chain, i.e. producers of carrier base, nicotine, packaging suppliers, printers, all logistics. These are mostly small enterprises. The result of the bill will be the need for entrepreneurs to prepare tax warehouses and thus adapt buildings and rooms to very restrictive requirements not met for small and medium-sized Polish enterprises. This requires huge financial and organisational expenditure, which will have to be carried out in a short period of time. In addition to organisational issues, the Act also forces the raising of capital which is a tax security, which may amount to several million zlotys. I would like to remind you that the requirement to provide a security of up to PLN 30 million has led to the collapse of dozens of Polish small and medium-sized enterprises. Big international corporations survived. Two weeks ago, we were working on an amendment that changed the harmful rules. Therefore, the printing project 1963 in its present form demonstrates the lack of any reflection by the Ministry of Finance. The restrictive requirements laid down in the government project for many enterprises simply mean a death sentence. The project favours large foreign tobacco companies operating in Poland, e.g. in such a way that for innovative products a rate of 300 PLN per 1 kg is foreseen, while for small and medium-sized Polish entrepreneurs - producers of electronic cigarette liquids, which should also be called innovative, a rate of 500 PLN per 1 l of liquid is foreseen. Large tobacco companies have had capital and many years of experience with tax warehouses, excise securities, as they have been taxpayers of this tax for years. For small and medium-sized Polish companies the introduction of a new tax at such a rapid pace means revolution, and for many of them the end of business. For the consumer, the proposed rate may mean a multiple increase in the price of e-cigarettes. Such growth will encourage a large part of 400 thousand. users to supply outside the official market, so the project will lead to the emergence of a grey zone. It is worth noting the negative experiences of other countries. In Portugal, following the introduction of excise duties, the volume of legal fluid sales decreased by 90%. In Italy, the liquid tax was supposed to give 86 million euro of revenue to the budget, but in 2015 only 5 million euro was collected and in 2016 even less. About 80% The Italian market has moved to the grey zone, more than 2 000 have fallen. trade shops, and the job lost close to 5.5 thousand. persons. Poland also has negative experiences with the increase in excise duty. They are illustrated by an example from 2011 and 2014. High increases in excise duty on ordinary cigarettes have led to the collapse of the legal market, a significant increase in the gray tobacco sector and a fall in budget revenue. In conclusion, the project in its shape should not be procedated. It should be noted that it has never been decided to introduce such a high rate of excise duty in relation to the starting price of the product. The excise duty on cigarettes was introduced in stages, and the rates increased gradually and not, as here, by leap. The Act is not about the health of Poles either. There is no doubt about it - smoking e-cigarettes and these innovative products, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As the bill says, it's harmful. But this bill will lead to the creation of a grey zone, or smoking, which is unknown. This is not good for the health of Poles. I move that the project be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u404	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u405	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern statement on the government's draft law amending the excise duty law, print no. 1963. The draft concerns the introduction of a regulation on excise duty taxation of two new categories of excise goods, i.e. electronic cigarette and novelty liquids, as well as their inclusion in the obligation to mark with excise marks. The introduction of these provisions will result in a planned increase in the revenue of the state budget of 75 306 thousand. zł. Given the expenditure of the state budget related to the regulations implemented, the annual balance should be 74 900 000. zł. Minister, where you don't know what's going on, you know what's going on, it's just about the money. This bill raises serious doubts in several points. Firstly, as noted by the Confederation of Leviathan, the excise duty rate for electronic cigarettes 70 gr per ml provided for in the draft is too high, especially given how fragmented and small the market for electronic cigarettes is. It is worth considering the solution that has been implemented in Croatia, where a zero rate has been introduced to identify the e-cigarette market. In Poland there is no comprehensive and reliable data on the e-cigarette market, therefore the introduction at the initial stage of excise duty of PLN 0 seems to be the most reasonable solution. Secondly, as he rightly pointed out, among others. Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, electronic cigarette liquids should be taxed, but only those containing nicotine. This will avoid the risk of unfairly describing the destination of components. In addition, the wording of the liquid for electronic cigarettes should be clarified. It should be understood as a solution or a chemical mixture containing nicotine and intended for use in electronic cigarettes. It is also worth noting that there is no justification for quantitative limits which provide for the possibility to conduct so-called. warehouse tax warehouse for e-cigarette liquids and novelty products. By taxing cigarette fluid and novelty products, the PiS wants to obtain additional money, which is so lacking in the state budget. It is worth noting that PiS has introduced numerous taxes - and now I will mention them - such as: bank tax, commercial tax, higher rent tax, higher fees for water and sewage, entrepreneurs pay higher ZUS by PLN 600 per year, and 350 thousand. Poles will pay a higher pension fee - approx. 3.5 thousand. PLN per year. The ruling party introduces new taxes and raises current taxes, even though it has ensured that such increases will not be made. Modern is in favour of further work on this law. We believe that in order to learn about the e-cigarette industry, we should first, first, introduce zero excise duties for electronic cigarette liquids. If we introduce an excise duty of the amount proposed by the government, we can harm the electronic cigarette industry, not that, Minister, this project is about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u406	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u407	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! That's right, businessmen. If we are talking about entrepreneurs, we must treat even the smallest ones as treasure, and it is also worth giving them the floor. I will use here, ladies and gentlemen, examples prepared by the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, because they are really, I would say, one showing what the introduction of the project in the form you have proposed involves. Firstly, a 100% increase in the price of this product for consumers. This, of course, is a very serious increase. My colleague Jaros was just talking about the introduction of a zero excise duty at the beginning. Seems like a reasonable step. And then there'll be a systematic raise eventually. Another thing. It follows from this draft law that it will be necessary for businesses to prepare tax warehouses and thus to adapt buildings and premises to restrictive requirements. This, of course, requires considerable financial expenditure, obtaining documents, permits. It takes time for that. The project makes it all necessary to do it in quite a short time. It will also need to raise capital for tax collateral by 31 March 2018. It is difficult to disagree with the conclusion that this is a death sentence for many small Polish companies, and this market will be taken over by foreign companies. Why? Ladies and gentlemen, because none of the Polish neighbours introduced excise duties on such goods. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This means that our citizens will go to our neighbours and supply these products, liquids, etc. They're gonna do it online. The tax revenue is going to drop instead of rising.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u408	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u409	And last but not least, Minister: you say nothing about safety, about the quality of these products, and I think that's where we'd have to start. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u410	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, asks you as the first question. Oh, excuse me, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska has made her statement in writing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about another new tax introduced by the government. Both electronic cigarette liquid and novelty products under this Act will be treated as traditional tobacco products. This is intended to give you control over their production and sales. I would just like to point out that, within the meaning of the EU directives, electronic cigarettes or liquids are not considered tobacco products. It is estimated that the changes should bring about PLN 75 million a year to the budget. So I have a question: What will be the cost for entrepreneurs who will be required to label products, or to flag them? Where will these changes bring additional influence? 'Cause I don't think it's from foreign companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] non-paying taxes. So you're assuming that's from the citizens. It's another tax for a regular...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u412	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u413	... A Pole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u414	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u415	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! You're looking for 75 million zlotys of tax revenue. That's exactly... For this 75 million, a new institution is to be created, called the Institute of Solidarity and Courage. There would be nothing wrong with that. Let the smokers make up for this institute. But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid small businesses will disappear from the market. It is quite a large number of companies that are on this market, and large companies will withstand everything. The big concern is absolutely used to it. The state budget can earn 75 million zlotys on this, only the question of whether it will earn. The Republican Foundation says no. Legal sales can fall to 76% and the e-cigarette market can go down to the gray zone. Do you have a country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're not worried that this treatment is really gonna cause the collapse of small businesses that are involved in this business...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u416	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u417	...and at the same time you're gonna provoke the gray zone, and you're gonna push it hard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u418	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u419	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Taxation of e-cigarettes and novel products with excise duties poses many risks. First of all, it will not give noticeable revenue to the budget, and may even give a loss through the liquidation of hundreds or even thousands of jobs actually. So it's going to be a budget loss. It also involves a high risk of creating a grey zone. Poles are a very resourceful nation. It will force many companies to cease their activities. Next, it poses a health risk, because Poles will perform these e-cigarettes, e-liquidy in their homes, will be sold in the grey zone no one knows what. Therefore, I ask the Minister to answer the question: Will this project bring any benefit and what real benefits do the Minister see besides strengthening large companies? And here's a hint. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or maybe a warning to everyone. They're about to be taxed on nicotine gums because they're a substitute. Why do you have nicotine, anyway? All gums need to be taxed, just like e-liquidas without nicotine. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u420	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u421	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two short questions. First, Minister, it's about adjustment costs. Did the Ministry analyze how much it would have to spend, I would say, a statistical trader operating in this market in order to adapt his company to the requirements of excise duty? The second thing is the issue of our neighbours. Have you even considered this subject? If so, what were the results of this analysis? I mean, what I was talking about when I presented our club's position, that none of the countries of the neighbouring Republic of Poland introduced excise duties on such products. How can this affect sales in Poland? I would very much ask for written answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u422	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u423	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many times when taxes on alcohol were raised, tobacco was said to serve the public in such a way that it would reduce drinking, reduce smoking, and everyone would be healthier, and everyone would be happier. But here it turns out, whether it's liquid or tobacco-free, the excise rate is, so it doesn't seem logical. I think non-alcoholic beer... Alcoholic products should be subject to excise duty. Similarly, in the case of tobacco products without tobacco, this rate should be absolutely reduced to zero. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u424	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u425	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: What countries do you refer to? As far as countries that have introduced excise duties on these products are concerned, economists consider them to be over-regulated. Besides, we have heard today about the example of Italy or Portugal as a result. Are you considering an extension of the deadline for small, medium-sized entrepreneurs to comply with tax warehouse regulations, because this is a big problem for them and temporarily They just might not make it? The last question seems quite obvious to me, but it will probably be difficult to answer: What will happen, what are you planning, if after a year it turns out that there is no market? The market has disappeared, there is absolutely no budget revenue, because this is about budget revenue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're assuming there's been a history from other countries, which is 90%, 95%. He's gonna wipe out this market. What then? Will there be any changes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u426	Thank you very much, Member. And here you go, Mr. Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u427	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Question: "Why should we fight against competition with the hands of the Polish minister and the Polish Sejm?" We politicians are doing this act with a competitive fight that should be on the market, not legally defined. If economic patriotism is to have such a face: 300 PLN for a foreign monopolistist and 500 PLN for Polish producers, then I am leaving this country because at the moment it has no composition or order, and at the same time it shows that there is something about it. No, no, no, no, no, Everybody does. 500, 300, let's say it's a one-stakes deal. Second: Why are there no implementing acts? In fact, the bill is being passed, and it is not known how entrepreneurs should work. How do they create? What calendar? I have the impression that for today, unfortunately, we're doing a job for a monopolist who put something on the market, invested something, but that's his problem, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u428	Thank you very much, sir. And I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Wiesław Janczyk to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank the representatives of the clubs for their speeches, for their analysis of the government's draft legislation on the change of excise duty to non-smoking and liquid cigarettes. I also thank you for the questions that reflect your doubts and interests. We tried to analyze them carefully while they were being asked. Let me refer to the most important issues that are at stake here. First question: What additional costs will entrepreneurs in this industry incur today? It should be made clear that some kind of tax vacation on excise duties in this field of use, smoking was, lasted a lot, it seems long enough. Today is the time for regulation. The Minister of Finance is responsible for building a stable revenue position for the state budget. There are many proposals in this Chamber on how to spend money, but few proposals on how to make money. This income position we're talking about today is really very small. This is 75 million, significantly reduced also in the course of government work, after listening to environmental demands, I said in my previous speech, 20 gr per ml. The rate of excise duty on cigarettes was reduced in relation to the original project submitted by the Minister for Development and Finance at the meeting of the Government. Thus, the voice of the environment was heard and included in the legislative work. The question is, how big are the costs. First of all, it needs to be made clear that there is no obligation to set up tax warehouses for entrepreneurs who produce Liquids for e-cigarettes. This can be produced by making a prepayment, outside the warehouse - for the month of production forward. And if someone's producing larger sizes, then... I'll use an example to illustrate it. Assuming that a small entity has 200 l of e-cigarette liquid in its tax warehouse, i.e. $20,000. 10 ml bottles, the general security would be 100,000. zł. However, he may request that it be reduced to a flat-rate security and represent only 30% of this amount and therefore 33 000. zł. After a year of operation, he may request exemption from that security. This collateral may also be converted into mortgage collateral. Therefore, the government comes out here with a very mature, responsible project, whose realization should not cause any major problems. Mr Furga's question is what this money will be used for. There is no principle in the construction of the budget to literally indicate revenue and to bind it to expenditure. In the case of a budget for happiness there is no need to do so, and this means that the government, when constructing a budget law each time, is required to focus on combining revenue streams and precisely define expenditure without a specific address as to where the money comes directly from. I think this is a fundamental principle that is worth mentioning here, in answer to the question of the Member. The question as to whether the law will lead to job losses is an open question. I don't think it's gonna lead to that. First of all, we can say that if we compare prices to prices in the countries of the European Union... Even with excise duty, 10 ml of this liquid will cost about PLN 15 and in some countries of the Union, such as: in Slovenia, which as one of the few countries has answered our question, today this amount is 100% more than 30 PLN. So it looks like the price of a liquid even with excise duty isn't going to be a very high price. The question was asked, another Member asked whether the neighbours had introduced it. Yeah, like. Russia introduced excise duty. This is important because this is the direction of imports from the European Union. This may not be the best example to follow, but at the same time it is worth to make you aware of the situation in which the Minister of Finance is in. If serious operators in this industry propose new technologies, innovative e-cigarettes, so-called. Non-smoking cigarettes, the Minister of Finance, cannot sit with his hands on the table and watch whether there may be an attempt on the market to share with you the proceeds from the sale of this type of product, which is still in demand and which is of interest, because, as I have repeatedly said from this speaker, excise revenue in total revenue of the state budget is an important item, and as far as the revenues from the sale of cigarettes are concerned, the second largest, after excise duty on fuel. That's 18,5 billion in 2016. Total excise tax revenue in the Budget Act for the coming year is planned at 70 billion. We are trying here in a really uninvasive way, but rationally introduce the principle that this market is subject to monitoring - also for the benefit, we hope, for smokers, because in this way, seeing on the product that they buy, the brand of banners, the excise mark, they know that this product offered has a specific certification, has been tested and is not an uncertain product. So we get additional options here, which are beneficial for consumers. The question is whether the base, aroma, nicotine should be subject to other excise duties. The project applicant, the government, considered that there was no technical possibility to monitor and speak with the supplier of this product about what and with what content, and considered that all these components would be subject to the same tax rate. Asking to adjust the time limits. For example, a period of 3 months has been provided for registration of the tax warehouse. That's enough time. The tax warehouse requirements are not excessive, and in my opinion this is a sufficient period for me to apply for such a composition. And like I said, it's not necessary. Such production may also be carried out outside the warehouse in pre-payment of excise duties. That is why, in a certain phase, I think, those actors who are doing this today can continue to be optimistic about the future. The question is the difference between excise duties on cigarettes, Liquids and non-smoking cigarettes. It is worth saying that non-smoking cigarettes are an absolute novelty on the market, which - I do not hide it - has become an additional inspiration for the Minister of Finance to adopt similar regulation in Poland when looking at regulations in other countries of the European Union, because here we are halfway through the rate: half of the EU countries introduced this taxation. In Poland, it is indeed low competitive compared to other countries, with the example of Italy often cited here, which would act as a deterrent for the government in Poland in terms of the introduction of this tax. Let me compare. It looks like this, for example: Portugal taxed e-cigarette liquid - in euro for 1 ml - at 60 cents, Italy - 38 cents, Finland - 30 and Poland - 11. So, compared to Portugal, we have almost six times the tax rate here. So I don't think we're going to have the kind of reflection we're going to have here in those countries where sales on the legal market have really dropped. But there were also attempts to tax equipment to use these fluids. We do not offer this and it is undoubtedly the advantage of this project. Liquid holidays lasted many years, non-smoking e-cigarette holidays are virtually non-existent and hence, I think, at this stage, the justification for this difference in stakes is. We also take into account the final value of the product and it is presented as follows. For example, in the compilation of the amount and the share of excise duty in the price of the quantity in the unit package it looks as if the dose of 10 ml of electronic cigarette liquid costs about 16 PLN and the share of excise duty in the price is 31%, for classic cigarettes - 61.8% , for novel cigarettes - 6,8% , but at comparable prices of the final product in the latter case, classic cigarettes, that is 13,6 when it comes to e-cigarette fluid, I already said that, for Liquids it is 16,5 and for innovative ones it is the most - 18,35, because here actually this technology, in order to be able to use it, requires the purchase of a device that is still a bit expensive today. We have... [[But this is an entrepreneur's problem.]] Mr President, I am about to fire you and you will be able to refer to what I am saying here. I'm talking about facts that come from reliable analysis. They are presented not only to the audience, but also to those who watch the debate online. I would ask that I be able to submit them freely. They are also a mapping of the hard work done by the Department of Excise Tax, preparing for you arguments for discussion and work, which will also continue in the Committee on Public Finance. These are all the questions that have been asked here during your speeches, for which I thank you very much. This is the beginning of work on this document. We will examine this fairly and, I think, accept all the serious arguments in this area. Nor can we allow a slow shift of revenue, which today is powered by the state budget, to be made to the portfolio of entities that operate in this industry, because the finance minister is responsible for this, to provide funds also for the treatment of patients who use these types of drugs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u430	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law amending the excise tax law. The draft shall be amended to the excise duty Act of 6 December 2008. Two new categories are introduced into taxation, i.e. electronic cigarette and novelty liquids. Electronic cigarettes as well as electronic cigarette liquids and novelty products are not subject to EU regulation. Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on tobacco products and related products contains only the definition of electronic cigarettes and the definition of novel tobacco products. Currently, 10 European countries have already introduced taxation of electronic cigarette liquid and 11 European countries have introduced taxation of novel products. The inclusion of excise duties on these new categories of goods in the government justifies ensuring the same tax treatment of substitute products as traditional tobacco products and like alcohol whether traditional tobacco products are considered to be used for the production, movement and sale of which there will be State control. In addition, the taxation of these products with excise duty will result in their obligation to flag. The draft provides for exemptions for new products as for other excise goods in the case of intra-Community acquisitions and imports by travellers. It is therefore exempt from excise duty to import liquid for electronic cigarettes or novelty products imported in travellers' personal luggage, which is 17 years old, 50 ml of liquid for electronic cigarettes in air or sea transport, 10 ml in another transport or consignment and 0.04 kg of novel products in air or sea transport and 0.008 kg in another transport or consignment. An explanation is needed to determine the age of 17, not the age of 18, that is, the adult. After all, we're talking about products that are considered drugs. The excise duty on electronic cigarette liquid shall be set at 50 gr per millilitre of liquid whether it contains nicotine or is a nicotine-free liquid. The rate of excise duty for novel products shall be PLN 141,29 per kilogram and 31,41%. the weighted average retail selling price of smoking tobacco. In this case, it should be considered that the proposed taxation is very complicated and in no way falls within the common expectation of simple tax enforcement techniques. According to the government's calculation, the introduction of these two new taxes will increase the revenue of the state budget by about PLN 75 million per year. The project under investigation was subject to public consultation, although in a very short period of time, but it triggered quite a lively discussion, which resulted in a number of new proposals and solutions and had overall negative assessments. Entrepreneurs' representations mainly point to the introduction of new taxes without pre-recognizing and assessing the e-cigarette market. They claim to exclude the taxation of nicotine-free liquids, to reduce the proposed excise duty rates, to introduce a zero rate in the initial period, as was done e.g. in Croatia, and the extension of transitional periods. We consider the comments submitted to be right and need to be supplemented, for example, by a better market analysis, as well as a calm introduction of a banning mechanism for these new products subject to excise duty. This draft law is supported by the fact that tobacco derivatives should be sufficiently harmonised and that the tobacco market, the production and cultivation of tobacco dried and the cultivation of that plant should be and be supervised. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I request that the bill be submitted to the Public Finance Committee for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u432	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws (Print No. 1931). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I have the honour to present to you a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws. The draft implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on a European Criminal Investigation Order. The aim of this Directive is to ensure an efficient and effective system of mutual assistance in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union in the field of evidence activities. This objective is intended to be achieved by the draft implementing the Directive. Thanks to the regulations contained in the proposed law, the Polish court or body conducting the investigation in Poland will be able to apply to another Member State of the Union for proof in that country. Proposals may also be issued prior to the initiation of criminal proceedings for the purpose of conducting operational and exploratory activities. If the application is submitted by a body other than the court or prosecutor, it will have to be approved by the prosecutor. Similarly, the countries of the Union will be able to ask Poland to carry out evidence on the territory of the Republic of Poland. Requests for evidence may relate to any activity authorised under the national law of the requesting State, e.g. It is a question of: hearing, showing, searching, carrying out evidence from experts' opinions, intercepting telecommunications communications, reporting of bank accounts and transactions, ongoing monitoring of transactions in these accounts or secretly supervising shipments. At the same time, it will be possible to refuse the requested action in certain cases, e.g. where carrying out evidence threatens national security or violates human and citizen rights. It will also be possible to carry out another action if the requested action would be inadmissible from the legal point of view of the requested State. It should be stressed that the scope of cooperation under the directive and the law implementing it does not go beyond the existing instruments of cooperation within the Union. The Directive replaced trade with Member States under the 2000 EU Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, as well as the 1959 European Council of Europe Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, together with additional protocols to those Conventions. The directive and the law implementing it therefore do not introduce new cooperation mechanisms compared to the instruments currently in force. However, the procedure and procedure for implementing the application are changing. The amendments consist in setting deadlines for the implementation of proposals and clarifying the grounds for refusal. Short deadlines should contribute to speeding up the execution of applications and thus to a more effective conduct of criminal proceedings and a faster completion of criminal proceedings. On the other hand, clarification of the grounds for refusal will, on the one hand, facilitate the enforcement of requests under the law of the requested State and, on the other hand, facilitate the refusal to comply with those requests which would jeopardise the interests of the State. In view of the above, I propose that the Sejm adopt a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u434	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski made his statement in writing. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch also made a written statement. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding sejm printing no. 1931, i.e. the law introducing the so-called "Polish legal system." a European Investigation Order. Ladies and gentlemen! As the Minister pointed out, this is an implementation of the directive, so it is not controversial, but it is worth noting that, in a broader sense, the European Investigation Order is intended not only to make it easier for neighbouring countries or in general members of the European Union to carry out evidence proceedings in Poland or to use its effects in Poland, but also, and perhaps, from our point of view, to facilitate Polish law enforcement authorities, including tax authorities, to carry out these investigations - here they are called - investigations, and generally it is about carrying out investigations in European Union countries. For my part, all I can say is that I hope that this instrument will actually be used wisely and effectively by people and legitimate bodies, because in an era of unifying Europe more and more, unfortunately also Polish criminals move their activities beyond the borders of the country, as well as many European criminals operating outside Poland, are acting to the detriment of our citizens, to the detriment of our country, our homeland. Therefore, the introduction of these provisions is as uncontroversial as possible, and it seems reasonable and therefore the Kukiz Club15 will recommend to its Members the support of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u436	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Pampuch made his statement in writing. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, too. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15, asks the question first. One minute to ask a question. [[No, your marshal, I resign.]] Thank you very much, the Member has resigned. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's a situation I'd like an explanation for. How is it that the Ministry and Law and Justice are able to draw up a bill that destroys the Constitutional Tribunal in 2 days to amend the tax laws within several dozen hours and that the law on the directive, which should be implemented on 22 May 2017, is only considered after six months? Why don't you guys change your priorities and instead of breaking the constitution, take care of those things that are lying there waiting in line. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u438	Thank you very much. Do you wish to refer to the Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: If I don't have to, I quit.]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u439	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws are designed to allow Polish courts, prosecutors and police to issue a European investigation order. The introduction of these regulations will allow for better and more effective cooperation with the countries of the European Union in prosecuting criminals. The draft law presented by the government implements an EU directive in Poland under which the European Criminal Investigation Order is used. The EU Directive introduces an effective mechanism relating to mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union as regards evidence by means of the possibility of issuing a European Investigation Order. The proposed law adapts Polish law to EU rules relating to the European Criminal Investigation Order. It should be stressed that the European Investigation Order will replace the existing proceedings on the protection of evidence only in relations with those States which are bound by the Directive. Thanks to the legal regulations used in the Directive, the Polish court or body conducting the investigation will be able to request another EU country to provide evidence in that country. Thanks to the new regulations, the Polish court, prosecutor's office or other investigating authority (e.g. The police, the Border Guard, the Customs-Scarb Service) will have the right to request any EU Member State to execute an investigation order. It should be stressed that the issuing of this order by a law enforcement authority other than the prosecutor will require the approval of the prosecutor. The issuing of a European Investigation Order may involve the carrying out of various types of evidence, i.e. activities such as: hearing, examining, familiarising with documents, checking and recording telephone calls, providing information on bank accounts and transactions in those accounts. At the same time, EU countries will be able to ask Poland to carry out evidence on our country's territory. However, there will be a possibility of another action if the requested action would be inadmissible from the point of view of the internal law of the requested State. The Government's draft amendment also allows the possibility of issuing an investigation order prior to the formal initiation of the investigation procedure, at the examination stage and on the basis of separate provisions (e.g. the Police Act, the Internal Security Agency and the Intelligence Agency Act). This will enable the investigating authority to obtain the evidence or information necessary to decide whether or not to initiate the investigation. The legislation so far allowed cross-border applications for legal aid, but the rules were very fragmented and complicated. As a result, they were reluctant to use them in practice. The European Investigation Order provides for a specific timeframe for carrying out the requested action and strictly limits the possibility of refusal. Greater communication and faster evidence-taking will positively increase the effectiveness of criminal proceedings conducted in Poland. While we are aware of the need for legal changes in this area, the proposals for changes presented in the government project are positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u440	Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that the bill be referred to the committee responsible. Implementation to the Polish legal order of Directive 2014/41/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on a European Criminal Investigation Order is a valid initiative. A new European mechanism for the mutual transfer of requests for evidence and the return of results should be considered to be extremely important. Enhancing mutual cooperation between all institutions in the EU in the area of justice improves the effectiveness in detecting and prosecuting offences. The addition in the Code of Criminal Procedure of the new rules set out in the new chapters seems fully justified from the point of view of the rules on correct legislation. Therefore, on behalf of the NPO, I request that the draft law be referred to the committees for further work, and this statement should be attached to the minutes of the Sejm meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u441	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws. The proposed law aims to implement Directive 2014/41/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on a European Criminal Investigation Order into the Polish legal order. It aims to ensure an efficient and effective system of mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between EU Member States by introducing the possibility of issuing a European Investigation Order. It should be noted that the Directive is replacing existing cooperation mechanisms based on the provisions of Council Framework Decision 2003/577/JHA, without, however, introducing any additional cooperation mechanisms with EU countries compared to the instruments it replaces. Of course, the Posel Club welcomes the adaptation of Polish law to European directives. However, it is a pity that once again we are witnessing the tardiness of the PiS government. The deadline for implementing the Directive expired on 22 May 2017, but the draft law only entered the Marshal's staff last month. Minister Ziobro, why is this tardiness, after all, your ministry is responsible for this project? Why don't you do your job properly? The delay in working on the implementation of the EU directive does not affect the substantive assessment of the draft law itself. Members of the Committee and of the Modern Members will vote in favour of referring him to further work on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws, print No. 1931. The project implements into the Polish legal order Directive 2014/41/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on a European Criminal Investigation Order. The aim of the project is to ensure an efficient and effective system of mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between EU Member States in the field of evidence (inquiry) by introducing the possibility of issuing a European Investigation Order (END). The European Investigation Order established by Directive 2014/41/EU is a mechanism for the transmission of requests by authorities from one country to carry out evidence activities such as, for example, the witness hearing, the demonstration or trial experiment in the other country and the feedback from the authorities of the other country on the results of these activities. It does not provide for a catalogue of investigative activities that may be carried out on the basis of it. Instead, it allows EU Member State authorities to apply for any investigative action authorised under their national law. The restriction is merely an enumerative of the grounds for refusing to execute the order and the possibility of carrying out another similar action where the requested action would be inadmissible under the law of the requested State. However, the rule is to recognise and enforce such an order in accordance with the principle of mutual trust between EU Member States. The Directive applies inter alia. to temporarily release persons who are deprived of freedom. Persons deprived of liberty covered by the order are to be issued for the purpose of testifying as a witness or taking part in other proceedings. They will therefore not be suspects and accused, issued for the purpose of prosecuting or serving penalties, which can only be transferred on the basis of a European arrest warrant. It is worth noting that the Directive applies to the means of proof used exclusively in criminal matters and therefore does not cover similar measures applied in civil or administrative proceedings. At the same time, because of the costs of the application of the order, it is not envisaged that an order may be issued in criminal proceedings. Unfortunately, Poland failed to implement the European Investigation Order within the required time limit, i.e. until 22 May 2016 It is good that today the High Chamber will finally address this necessary, improving the functioning of justice in Poland and in other EU countries. The adoption of the EU Directive in this area will facilitate the transmission of requests for evidence and the feedback of the results. Thanks to the regulations contained in the Directive, the Polish court or body conducting the investigation will be able to request another EU country to carry out evidence in that country. Similarly, EU countries will be able to apply to Poland for proof on the territory of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u443	In view of the recognition by the Council of Ministers of the draft law as a draft law implementing the law of the European Union to deal with this project, the provisions of Chapter II of Chapter IV of the Sejm Rules of Procedure do not apply. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and certain other laws contained in print No. 1931, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 5 December 2017. We proceed with the examination of item 14. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure Act (Print No. 1932). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u444	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal for a law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure is intended primarily to enable public support to entities requiring restructuring without prejudice to Union law and without the need to notify the European Commission of any support constituting public aid. In order to achieve this objective, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, with the agreement of the Council of Ministers, notified the European Commission on 12 November 2015 of a project entitled "Aid for the rescue and restructuring of small and medium-sized enterprises', consisting of the relevant provisions of the Restructuring Law and the Decree of the Minister of State Treasury of 20 March 2015 on State aid for rescuing or restructuring entrepreneurs. The European Commission accepted this proposal conditionally on 29 August 2016. It will be applicable once the conditions laid down by the European Commission have been met, i.e. the entry into force of relevant changes in Polish law. The proposed amendments to the Law of 15 May 2015 therefore aim primarily at adapting the provisions of that Law on State aid to the conditions formulated by the European Commission in the framework of the notification procedure for the aid scheme. The proposed amendments are in fact to clarify or clarify the provisions already in force in line with the suggestions made by the Commission. Their implementation will achieve the effect provided for in Article. 149 of the Restructuring Law, i.e. the entry into force of the conditional decision adopted by the European Commission to grant public aid for restructuring without the need for individual notification to the European Commission. This is so important that the individual notification procedure takes an average of 15 months and in practice means that effective restructuring is not possible with public support. In addition, in the so-called. In the meantime, i.e. With effect from 1 January 2017, the current Regulation of the Minister of State Treasury of 20 March 2015 on State aid for the rescue or restructuring of entrepreneurs has expired, the proposed Act is to create a statutory mandate to issue implementing rules similar to those contained in the Regulation which has expired. It should be recalled that the loss of force of the current Regulation is a consequence of the entry into force of the Act of 16 December 2016 on 1 January 2017. Provisions introducing the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property, which repealed inter alia. Act of 8 August 1996 on the rules for exercising the powers of the Treasury including a delegation to issue that regulation. The draft law also provides for an amendment to the Law of 14 June 1960. Code of Administrative Procedure, i.e. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 189k of this law, in so far as the administrative penalty relief provided for in it can be granted as public restructuring aid and in so far as it could be regulated more closely by the Council of Ministers' implementing regulation. These changes consist in limiting the scope of the statutory authorisation to issue further implementing rules on State aid. Having regard to the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, Paragraph 139a. The restructuring law contains a regulation relating both to state aid for restructuring, state aid for rescue and temporary restructuring support, as well as a general authorisation to issue implementing provisions in this respect, the issue of a top-down regulation under the CC. only for the purpose of regulating public aid for restructuring granted in the form of reductions in the execution of an administrative penalty should be considered unnecessary. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I remain convinced that the legal instruments proposed in the proposal will allow the smooth functioning of the state aid system as an effective source of support for restructuring procedures for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in Poland. I therefore ask the High House to support this proposal. The government hopes for its rapid and efficient proceding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u445	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u446	Mrs. Marshal! Fellow Members! Minister! I've got a part in it... I'm in a comfortable situation because 5 minutes on this topic is really a lot. I'm saying this because there are very important topics in the Seym. Unfortunately, what I'm about to say has a critical accent. I am surprised, as a longtime Member, that matters where more time should be allowed... I'm saying it. as a member of the governing camp. But that's another question. Thank you, Minister, because he put this whole subject on the table because of the reasons for the clou. It is a law adjusting so that I can define it, which under the influence of certain events adapts our law in such a way - this is the most important thought, the most important meaning and the purpose of this law - to create unfettered and very convenient conditions to help. It should be stressed that small and medium-sized enterprises are the target companies. It is also worth highlighting here the need to continue, strengthen and expand state policy, our entire tax policy, also as regards the burden on these small and medium-sized companies, for example, on the burden on ZUS contributions, but also on many others. In this case, as underlined by the Minister, this whole initiative is a consequence of some changes in our law, particularly at the turn of 2016 and 2017, when the findings so far, very important findings, the notification of the European Commission, which laid down the conditions for free helping small and medium-sized enterprises without breach of the law and without these individual notifications... We had here in the Sejm a debate on large notifications, that I would like to remind you, for example, about coal, even the yard, when the approval of state aid to powerful companies requires political procedures, it creates great emotions. I think and hope that my next colleagues will support the initiative on this matter as little, because times are so turbulent, and that in the vote on this law the Polish Parliament will vote in agreement. It is also important, as far as a certain detail is concerned, that our present action and this law will also provide for the possibility of introducing into the provisions detailed conditions based on accounting laws, so the aid which will result from this law is described very precisely, are the conditions which the entity must fulfil in order to benefit from such assistance. I think it's all very transparent and very clear. On behalf of my parliamentary club, I want to thank you for this initiative. In the Committee on European Union Affairs, reports are presented and we often hear how many unadjusted laws we still have, that there are arrears, but I can also say from this tribune, even at the last moment, because these reports are that Poland is not in the tail at the very end. It's very different with this adjustment. Some things require a lot of work, a lot of effort. This one certainly doesn't belong to them, but it's very important and very important. In conclusion, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I ask the High House to support this initiative. Thank you for your attention, also to the Minister, for giving me a very thorough presentation of the details of this very good legislative initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u447	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Katarzyna Osos made her statement in writing. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u448	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the 1932 draft law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure Act, but first of all I would like to express my deep admiration and respect for a colleague of Cymanski for being able to use almost 5 minutes in such a beautiful way to present a position towards a project that we could basically say is that we are asking for it, because it is a good project, it implements European rules, but it is a good project not because it is the Law and Justice that proposes it - I am not going to the Law and Justice camp of the United Right - but it is a good project because it is actually going to help these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. In particular, if a small or medium-sized entrepreneur is in trouble and qualifies for restructuring proceedings to be initiated against him, the individual notification must have been made so far. This led to an average delay of about 15 months, as the Minister pointed out. As we know from experience, especially businessmen, 15 months... I often say it's a great time to fall, kill people... [[Sometimes incense for the dead.]] This is a good time, as you say, for the dead. In fact, after this notification, there is virtually nothing left to restructure. So I will say, unfortunately, less, because I am still learning from Mr Cymanski long, flaming, flowery speeches, I will say briefly, in conclusion that Kukiz15 will recommend to its Members the support of this project, because it is simply necessary for small and medium-sized Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u449	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u450	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Looking at the turnout, I come to the conclusion that the High House can be called today by name. [[You're welcome.]] [[Try it, sir. It's gonna be an event.]] I'm not gonna outrun myself during the presentation. I will say that the position of the modern club is clear: it is necessary to support this project, to transfer it to the committees, especially since the aim of the project is to adapt the Polish Restructuring Law, that the Act sets out the conditions for the granting of public aid for the restructuring of the company and facilitates access to restructuring aid for small and medium-sized enterprises. Under the Act, entrepreneurs who have lost more than half of their capital are eligible for aid. It follows that operators operating in the coal, steel and financial sectors are not eligible for aid. Restructuring aid is only part of restructuring measures. Entrepreneur must have an own contribution which is estimated at 25.50% all costs. The provisions contain a clause to protect against infringements of competition. The project does not generate additional costs as this concerns better use of funds already earmarked for this purpose, as enshrined in the 2015 Act. According to the aid scheme, these costs are expected to be around 153 million, including 53 million for restructuring public debt. As I said, the Modern Club will vote in favour of transferring the project to committee work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u451	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak and Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made their speeches in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask questions? If so, please. Mr. Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u452	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Just a quick question. You mentioned that the Regulation, which had previously regulated this matter, had expired on 1 January 2017. Today is November 8th. During these more than 11 months, were Polish entrepreneurs deprived of the possibility to use this mechanism? If not, please answer only this question: Was there such a 11-month gap when they could not use the mechanisms that we are talking about here today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u453	Thank you very much. And the question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u454	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One question. Why these consultations were conducted, among others. with restructuring advisors, with bankruptcy judges, while there was no consultation with business environments? They were not included in this consultation, which is a pity. The question is whether or not they were ignored because their position would not have had a greater impact on the shape of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u455	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer his questions. Minister Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u456	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll answer the questions briefly. Indeed, as far as this delay is concerned, it was more than 10 months between 1 January and 8 November, but it did not have any negative effects because the project is of a technical nature. We have the consent of the European Commission, but it is conditional on the entry into force of the legislative complex. Therefore, the regulation itself, even if it had previously been in force, without a draft law, which today is presented and discussed by the High House... It is only by adopting this set of rules that the possibility of helping small and medium-sized enterprises can be unlocked, because, as I mentioned in my speech, during which I presented the proposal, we have the Commission's approval, but it is a condition that the whole set of rules enter into force. The regulation is only an element, one of the conditions, but there are other conditions. It is only when all the conditions are met that the aid can be mobilised. I hope this happens as soon as possible. As regards the issue of consultation with business environments, the lack of inclusion of business organisations among those to whom we have sent an invitation to share comments is not due to any bad will or any other misguided intentions of the Ministry of Justice, but only because it is clear that these instruments, which will enter into force, are an opportunity for entrepreneurs, but, as is apparent from my speech, they are of a strictly technical nature. It is therefore a matter of clarification of certain provisions, the issue of a specific regulation. In fact, the idea of helping small and medium-sized entrepreneurs neither in the High House nor in the business community is none. [[Maneuvering field is small.]] We have to help, we have resources, we have to meet certain conditions, and that's what we're doing. And the rules, like the technical regulations, are a little bit that your teeth hurt to listen, but you have to do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u457	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u458	Dear Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I request that the Government draft law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure, print no. 1932, be continued.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure Act, print No. 1932. The amendment aims to enable public support to be provided to the entities concerned by the restructuring procedure without prejudice to Union law and without the need to notify the European Commission of support which is authorised by Union law. The amendments proposed in this project address the following issues. First, they relate to the adaptation of the provisions of the Law of 15 May 2015. Restructuring law to the conditions laid down by the European Commission, which will allow the granting of public aid for the restructuring of small and medium-sized enterprises without individual notification to the European Commission. This will significantly improve the provision of this assistance by eliminating the need for every expectation of the European Commission's decision (in practice the average waiting time for the EC to issue a decision on this matter is around 15 months). Second, they concern the restoration of a statutory authorisation to issue implementing rules similar to those contained in the Decree of 20 March 2015 of the Minister of the Treasury, which was repealed. This will enable the adoption of a new regulation, which together with this project will enable the launch of the aid scheme and will provide a complete basis for the granting of rescue and restructuring aid to firms. Thirdly, they concern amendments to the Article. 189 c.p.a. to the extent that the administrative penalties provided for in this Regulation may be granted as public restructuring aid and to the extent that they could be more closely regulated by the Council of Ministers' Implementing Regulation. Given that the proposed changes will shorten and simplify the procedure for granting public aid to small and medium-sized enterprises and that the aid will restore the company's well-being, enabling it to operate on the market, the Platform is in favour of directing the project to further legislative work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure Act. The purpose of the proposed law is to adapt the provisions to the conditions set out by the European Commission in the notification procedure of the aid scheme providing for rescue and restructuring aid to small and medium-sized enterprises. By amending the Act, it will be possible to grant public aid for restructuring without individual notification to the European Commission. The aim is to eliminate the need for every expectation of a decision by the European Commission, which is expected on average to be around 15 months. The introduction of changes will therefore have a real impact on improving the provision of assistance. Using the amendments introduced, it will be possible to achieve the expected effects of the aid scheme mentioned above. In addition, the proposed amendment aims to create statutory powers for the issuing of implementing rules similar to those contained in the previous Regulation which has expired. The changes that have been made in my assessment will improve the situation of companies waiting for support to come out of a difficult situation. I believe that the proposed change will have a positive impact on a faster return to viability and reduce the risk of business failure. The revised amendment introduces clear and transparent procedures for obtaining public aid for entrepreneurs. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceedings over the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u461	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure, contained in print No 1932, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 8 November. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. I would ask that Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club, speak first.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u462	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ryszard Petru also owes his unmistakable and growing authority in public life to his achievements in various disciplines and fields of knowledge, even in the field of classical logic, where he does his work and deserves recognition. Petru syllogism: if the horse is a horse, then rum - a cognac. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u463	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u464	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On January 2, at the banks, the race for the last fund pool from the MdM program will begin. I remind you that the extra pool, over PLN 60 million, spread out in August this year in just 6 hours, because it is a big support for young Poles who want to buy their own apartment. Now desperation will be even greater, because this is the last pool of funding for support under this programme. It's a pity the PiS government doesn't want to extend this so popular program. In light of this, it is surprising that the inhabitants of Pomerania as the only ones in Poland will again be able to have a problem in their efforts for these government subsidies, as last year, because the Pomeranian voivode Dariusz Drelich delays the second year in a row - in relation to other voivodships it is a delay - with the designation of the so-called. the limits, in square metres, of the area of the apartment for which the money is available, of the aid in the MdM programme. This delay causes the inhabitants of Pomerania to have much less money to share than residents of other voivodships in which the limits have been published previously. I would like to point out that, in addition to this, seeking a surcharge, one must find an apartment where the price of 1 m2 will be in this fixed limit, but in addition, no man will find within a week the proper location of his future apartment. As I have emphasised, the problem is considerable, because 2018 is the last year of the programme. So I ask you, Mr Drelich, to publish these limits as soon as possible, because it really prevents young people from using this money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u465	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz made his statement in writing. Please, Mr. Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u466	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Listeners! In the context of the Patriotic Week, which began in Poland, in many places in our country, I would like to share three reflections with you. The first is, of course, the joy of the fact that in many local communities it is an event, i.e. the Patriotic Week, it stimulates the activity of many of our compatriots to remember everything that led to 11 November 1918. Heroes of those times, those events you are moving to the present day, you are trying to activate patriotic reflection, but also giving a large load of knowledge and historical education, for which you very, very, very much thank you. Let me say two sentences about the events in Świebodzin on the land of Lubuskie, including Świebodzin, where the figure of Christ the King of the Universe stands. There, scouts from the Association of Scouts of the Republic of Poland from the tribe of Sten, led by Scout Marek Wojdan and guide Sławek Stańczak, have been animating the Patriotic Week for many years, inviting the inhabitants of Świebodzin to various reconstructions, urban games or other very modern forms of experiencing patriotism. Thank you, fellows, this is a genuinely wonderful, excellent scouting job. Let me also, ladies and gentlemen, share my experience on Monday when I participated in the IV Lubuskie Youth Sejm, during which young people from all over Lubuskie arrived at the Marshal's office and there on their forum, in the regional parliament of young people, tried to answer the question of how they wanted to celebrate the century of regaining independence according to their own idea and ideas, which we will soon experience throughout 2018. The ideas were immeasurable, very original, and I think this is what it is all about, to see what is dreaming of the unthinkable ingenuity of a young man, who can represent patriotism in a completely different way, maybe in another dimension of expression present it and live it, so that we can give this space to young people, listening to how young people want to experience the events of the story of regaining independence, that is what they were doing. So I thank the organizers of the IV Lubuskie Youth Sejm, thank you to the young people themselves, that she has so actively and meaningfully entered this space. Third thing. I would like to address those of you who are wondering how we, in our locality, in our village, in our small community, could in a non-conventional way, perhaps not unduly burdensome, enter into the space of celebrations of independence. I will return to the activities of the scouts. Scouts from Lublin, from Małopolska, friends Michał Orlik and their scout friends invite all of Poland, also you, dear listeners, to the fact that we will be invited on 10 November this year. at 3 p.m. 19 set fire to independence. The original idea is that these fires will ignite along Polish rivers. Perhaps next year it will be easier to take. This year, piloting is taken by young people on Facebook fanpage, where you will find the whole schedule on how to handle it. In any case, I invite you, fellow countrymen, to make November 10th, which is 2 days from now, at 2 o'clock. 19 light the fire of independence. Let it shine in our homeland not only the joy of celebrating November 11th, of regaining independence, but also the fire of a certain community. For by fire this community will indeed not only warm up, but also joyfully sing many patriotic songs. Happy Independence Day.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u467	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're on the eve of a great holiday, a celebration of regaining independence, a 99th anniversary as soon as Saturday. On this occasion I wanted to encourage all States and the High House, but above all the viewers of this message, of all people, citizens both in Poland and abroad, to lift their heads high and proudly on this very day, because this is a special day for us Poles. Not only for us, because not only were we then regained independence, but as Poles we should focus on our own independence, on what caused, which caused, specifically, people who were political environments, and there were many of them, led to Poland regaining independence, and Poles regained their own country. That's one thing. That's another line. It is important that we be aware of what this historical feature was, which first of all caused us to lose our independence, that we lost our own country, and then how long it took to recover it, how difficult it was to recover it. And the third line. Since we have a very joyful time ahead of us, a time of celebration, I therefore encourage everyone to join the celebrations, especially in all local celebrations. There's a whole lot of celebrations. I'll be in Nysa next Saturday, also in my home shore. I encourage you to do so in your small towns, towns and villages, where such celebrations will be organized, not to be afraid to leave the house, even if the weather does not encourage you, because Poland is a great thing, even more important is its independence, that we can be proud to speak Polish that we can even here, in this Seym, constitute the law and according to this right to live. Ladies and gentlemen, happy 99th anniversary of regaining independence. I hope that we will rest again on Sunday, but from Monday we will all get to work hard, because we will all work on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, the date and anniversary absolutely exceptional, which, I hope, will also contribute a bit to reducing the level of the dispute, weakening the emotions that are somewhere around this policy all the time. So that, dear citizens, countrymen, on Saturday we celebrate, on Sunday we rest, and from Monday we get to work and prepare for the next 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-08-sejm-51-1.u469	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 9 November 2017, by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 20]]
