ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u1	High Senate, resume your session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2016 together with Notes on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. The text of the information is contained in print No 466. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took note of the information at its meeting on 30 May 2017 and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its The committees have informed the Senate marshal. I would like to welcome the President of the Senate, Mr. Mark Michalak. Minister, we welcome you very warmly. I ask the Ombudsman to take the floor and present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u2	Good morning. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! Compiled to the High House in accordance with the Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act on the Ombudsman for Children's Rights Information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2016 together with the observations on the state of the child's rights is a detailed description of the actions and actions taken by the Ombudsman last year. Their aim was to carry out the tasks imposed by law on the Ombudsman's institution in the area of the protection of the rights of the child and the welfare of the child. In 2016, the Ombudsman continued a systematic analysis of the problems affecting the child and the family, as well as measures promoting and disseminating the rights of the child and their methods of protection. In this respect, as in previous years, the Ombudsman worked with NGOs, universities and other actors to protect the rights of the child. In 2016, the Ombudsman's Office received a total of 46 thousand 213 cases over four and a half times more than in 2008, when I had the honour of taking office. Since 2013, the number of interventions has remained close. The Ombudsman addressed a total of 154 general speeches to ministers, bodies and institutions in 2016. In 295 cases, I considered that there was a threat to the child's well-being in pending court proceedings, and therefore, by exercising my statutory powers, I reported the Ombudsman's participation in legal proceedings, where the Ombudsman participated on equal rights to the prosecutor. An important element of the Ombudsman's activities is the taking of control actions. In total, 217 inspections were carried out by the Ombudsman in 2016. They concentrated in 3 areas. The first of these are checks carried out, among others. in foster care facilities, youth educational centres, educational establishments and medicinal entities. They were the result of signals of irregularities in the functioning of the institutions and were carried out on their own initiative by the Ombudsman. The second area is checked, which included children's and young people's rest areas. They also continue now, this year. And the third area is the audit of judicial files in the courts' jurisdiction to place children in foster care. It was carried out following the publication by the Minister of Justice of information entitled "Unable to take children out because of poverty ', a draft adopted by the Council of Ministers. Information from the Ministry clearly indicated that in 61 cases the only reason for the decision to place children outside the biological family was the poor economic and living conditions of families. The examination of the court files identified by the Ministry of Justice in any of the cases did not confirm that parental poverty was the sole reason for placing the child in foster care. In 2016, the Ombudsman took part in the opinion of 46 draft legal acts, as well as on several occasions in the meetings of the Sejm and the Senate, in meetings of committees and parliamentary subcommittees on which issues related to the protection of the rights of the child were raised or addressed. As part of the dissemination of children's rights, I participated in meetings with children and young people, hosting them in the office and meeting them in various cities in Poland, among others. in schools, hospitals, kindergartens, rest facilities or other nursing establishments. In total, some 57,000 children attended these meetings. The honorary patronage of the Ombudsman was covered in 2016 by 275 events and initiatives carried out by NGOs, scientific institutions and state administrations. The High House's complex information covers five main areas of action for the protection of the youngest, resulting from the Ombudsperson's Act. These include the right to life and health care, the right to family education, the right to decent social conditions, the right to education and the right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence or other mistreatment. In the document, I addressed these issues in detail. Allow only a synthetic take-up and indication of the most important actions taken by the Ombudsman in 2016. As regards the protection of the child's right to life and health, a total of 5 000 389 cases have been reported to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman examined individual cases and asked the competent authorities and institutions to take action or to provide information on, inter alia, the availability of specialist doctors, the oral health status of children and adolescents, the organisation of health care over the population of developmental age, the availability of modern treatment, the protection of children against HIV infection, medical care during childbirth, preventive vaccination, treatment costs, paediatric standards, postpartum depression, the protection of the life and health of unborn children, the use of solarium by children, the use of psychoactive substances, so-called. boosters, lack of experts at the stage of court proceedings initiated by appeal against the decisions of the provincial teams on disability decisions and the safety of medical procedures. To discuss the area of protection of the rights of the child to raise in the family, I would like to stress that there are still the largest number of cases affecting the Ombudsman. In 2016, it was 23,000 596 cases, which represented more than half of all cases that had been brought to the Ombudsman in the year in question. In intervention, the Ombudsman asked the authorities and institutions to provide information or take action, inter alia. in matters relating to: the exercise of the right of the child to both parents; the execution of contacts between the child and the parents; the execution of judgments; young children in the foster care system; the procedures for the hearing of minors; the representation of the child in the process; the right of the child to know identity; the proceedings for the removal of a person under parental authority or custody; the protection of the right of the child to privacy; the protection of the rights of the child in the adoption procedure and the operation of day support facilities. In many individual cases, the Ombudsman initiated proceedings before the court in the framework of his statutory powers, as well as proceedings already in progress. As regards the protection of the child's right to decent social conditions, a total of 3,000 831 cases were reported to the Ombudsman in 2016. The Ombudsman examined individual cases and spoke to the competent authorities and institutions in cases concerning inter alia:: Homelessness of children; educational benefits; parental benefits; enforcement of maintenance services; imprisonment by sentenced persons in accordance with Article. 209 criminal code in the electronic surveillance system; protection of personal data of adopted children; procedures for granting family benefits; rulings on disability; insufficient number of social premises; neighborhood conflicts; protection of the image of minors; safety on playgrounds; travel concessions in collective communication for children and young people. In the area of the protection of the right of the child to study in 2016, a total of 6 000 980 cases were reported to the Ombudsman. These included:: recruitment to kindergartens and schools; assessment of pupils; competitions in question; support for children with special educational needs in kindergartens and schools; psychological and pedagogical assistance; access to children's textbooks with visual impairment; unequal treatment and discrimination; mental health, cyber violence and suicide of pupils; respect for the rights of children and pupils at school; impact of a divorce on the school situation; safety and hygiene in kindergarten and school; student insurance at school; activities of parents' councils; stay in a child's post for the long term; disciplinary responsibility of teachers; bringing children to schools and kindergartens, including children with disabilities; financing of educational systems; safety of children during out-of-school activities organised by private entities; functioning of youth educational centres; functioning of day-care facilities; organisation of children's and youth holidays; organisation of school sports competitions; functioning of Polish schools in Lithuania; functioning in the territory of the Republic of Poland's rehabilitation centres for young people from other countries. In the area of child's right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment in 2016, a total of 4,000 972 cases were reported to the Ombudsman. These included:: Negligence and violence in the home environment; psychological, physical and sexual violence; peer violence; violence in schools, kindergartens, crèches and other forms of care; violence in educational, sociotherapeutic and rehabilitation institutions; abuse. A new chapter on the protection of the rights of the child in an international context has been set out in the information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2016. I have decided to specify this issue because of the specificities and complexity of these issues. To a large extent, requests to the Ombudsman for intervention and ex officio action concerned: protection of the rights of minors of foreigners in the Republic of Poland; protection of the rights of minors of Polish citizens residing abroad; and international parental abductions. On the international scene, the Ombudsman also took action to protect the rights of the child in cooperation with the European Network of Ombudsmen of the Rights of the Child, ENOC and through cooperation with representatives of European and international institutions. In the framework of the actions taken for children, the Ombudsman worked closely, inter alia. with the President of the Republic of Poland, the two Chambers of Parliament, the Ombudsman, the Supreme Chamber of Control, the General Data Protection Officer, the spokesperson for the rights of the patient or the Police Headquarters, and also participated, as an institution invited, in the work of the Interministerial Group for Combating and Preventing Trade in People. Cooperation with the various authorities of the state, representatives of local governments, NGOs and representatives of the world of science was also carried out in the framework of problem teams appointed by the Ombudsman, i.e. a team for the development of adoption standards, a team for the development of school and peer mediation standards, a team for the self-emancipation of foster care pupils, youth educational centres, shelters for minors and correction centres and a maintenance team set up jointly with a Ombudsman. Last year, the work was continued by the Committee on the Codification of Family Rights set up by the Ombudsman, whose task is to analyse comprehensively the functioning of the law in order to safeguard the welfare of the child, to strengthen his subjectivity and to take a new look at the philosophy of parental responsibility, personal and family relations with the child and educational situations. Today is the meeting of the codification committee. An important element of the activity of the Ombudsman of children's rights was the continuation of nationwide social campaigns. The first one is a social campaign, the courage saves lives, whose task was to draw the attention of children and young people to the fact that courage is primarily the ability to make wise decisions, the ability to assertive attitudes, responsibility for themselves and for others. The campaign on violence against children has also continued since 2013 as a social movement. You have the right. Its aim is to change the passive attitude of people towards acts of child abuse and to reduce social consent to violence against children. At this point, I merely signal that the response to violence against children is not only a right, it became a duty on 13 July 2017, there is a threat of criminal sanctions in the form of imprisonment up to 3 years old. In 2016, there were also numerous competitions by the Ombudsman, among others. for the best master's and doctoral work relating to the subject of children's rights or the competition for local television, this concerns us regarding the protection of children's rights. In 2016, the Ombudsman continued his publishing activity under the Ombudsman's Library. It was published, among others. the following publications: protection of the child's development by threats, protection of the rights of the child in emergency situations, and love. I'm not hitting? Violence against children in public discourses, the child as a subject of conscience and religion, and the exercise of parental authority and contacts in conditions of the existence of a foreign element. The most important part of the information is the attention to the state of compliance with the rights of the child, which is an integral part of this information. In assessing the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland, attention should be paid to the demands of the Ombudsman in 2016 to improve the protection of the rights of younger citizens. Referring to the state of the child's right to life and health, the Ombudsman has repeatedly pointed out both in his observations on the state of respect for the rights of the child which is an integral part of the annual information submitted to the High House and in many speeches to the Minister of Health for underestimation and the insufficient availability of dental services for children. The Ombudsman has repeatedly called for a comprehensive state policy to improve the health of children's teeth, including effective prevention and the availability of dental services. The Ombudsman's actions resulted in the establishment of a health team to develop solutions to improve oral health in children in 2016. Representatives of the Ombudsman also participated in the work of the team. The task of the team was to develop solutions to ensure that adequate mechanisms were available for the education of appropriate oral health attitudes in whole families. The result of this work was the development of a document on the diagnosis of dental care for children and adolescents, which highlighted the unsatisfactory health status of the mouth of the youngest population, organisational problems in healthcare and potential causes of failure of current solutions, in particular the incorrect valuation of dental procedures for children and adolescents. This diagnosis confirmed the conclusions made several times in the statements of the Advocate General. The proposed model of dental care organisation for children and young people is to include general health education on the health status of the mouth, including the promotion of oral health already among pre-school children. At the same time, it involves introducing a breakdown into primary and specialist dental care for children, so that each child has access to a selected primary dental care doctor who will direct them to a specialist if necessary. At the same time, the order of the President of the National Health Fund of 27 June 2016 amending the regulation on the establishment of conditions for the conclusion and implementation of contracts such as dental treatment, introduced a solution proposed for many years by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, namely the correction coefficient of incorrect, low valuation of dental procedures for children. This coefficient is 1.2. He's too small, but that's a step. This solution allows for an increase in the proportion of treated children while reducing the debt of treatment centres for children and adolescents only. The Ombudsman's requests regarding the need to change the way and level of funding for care for the youngest patients contributed to the fact that the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification included the area of hospital care services in the plan for 2017 concerning the treatment of children's diseases. It focused more than 2% in total expenditure incurred by the National Health Fund for the provision of services such as hospital treatment. The actual costs incurred by healthcare providers for the provision of services dedicated to patients up to 18 years of age will be analysed. A review of the system solutions will also be carried out in other countries. The Agency has also announced the initiation of a procedure under the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare in respect of the collection of financial and accounting data for 2015 such as medical rehabilitation. This responds to the request made by the Ombudsman to the Minister of Health to re-evaluate the benefits of systemic rehabilitation in stationary conditions for children. The Ombudsman's requests, of course, relate to the estimation of these procedures, not just to the revaluation. The Ombudsman has repeatedly pointed out the need to extend the calendar of compulsory preventive vaccinations to pneumococcal vaccinations. They have been introduced into the calendar of mandatory preventive vaccinations. Since 1 January 2017, all children born after 31 December 2016 have been vaccinated against pneumococci. I have repeatedly stressed that children who are chronically ill, including Crohn's disease, should be treated with proper health care. So far, the programme dedicated to them has been too short to allow for remission of the disease. Since 1 January 2017, according to the Ombudsman's requests, therapy under the drug program for children suffering from this rare disease, Leśniowski-Crohn, has been extended from 12 to 24 months. At the same time, a medicine previously used solely for the treatment of the disease in adults was also available for children. In 2015 the Ombudsman called on the Minister of Health to give a negative opinion on the draft regulation amending the 2002 regulation of the Minister of Health on the release of medicinal products and medical devices from the pharmacy. At that time, the changes made to the law gave the child freedom to acquire hormonal agents for internal use without a doctor's prescription. By justifying his negative position, the Ombudsman pointed out that the child should not be held responsible for the use of a hormonal agent. It's an adult's responsibility. A parent and a doctor. The child may not be aware of the side effects and side effects of the medicine. At that time, the Minister of Health did not share the position of the Ombudsman. Following further appeals by the Ombudsman on this issue, the Minister for Health took action to restrict direct access to hormonal medicinal products to children. These rules have already entered into force. In its observations on the state of child rights, the Ombudsman has repeatedly pointed out and continues to highlight the problem of parents' non-alination of children in terms of the low effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. In order to ensure that children fully implement the right to decent social conditions, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman have set up an expert group on child support. The panel's analysis allowed the Ombudsman to make a number of demands to the relevant ministers, institutions and organisations to protect the rights of the child more effectively. One of the proposals completed was the preparation and implementation by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy of a social campaign entitled "Responsible parent pays', which aimed at publicising the problems of non-alimination and encouraging the payment of alimony. With regard to numerous contributions to the professional activation of maintenance debtors and the possibility to direct debtors to socially useful work and the need to make greater use of the electronic surveillance system in relation to those convicted of non-alination offences, work has been undertaken in the Ministry of Justice to amend the Article. 209 criminal code. The project was designed, among others. fulfilling the demands of the two Advocates on the possibility of penalising the above-mentioned offence in the electronic surveillance system. The act adopted in this regard is already in force. Let me remind you that this topic was taken three times by the spokesmen, and the third time, we managed to convince the Minister of Justice. The Ombudsman has repeatedly demanded that children be protected from violence by adults in the educational system. To this end, the Ombudsman has consistently sought to amend the rules on disciplinary action against teachers since 2011. In his submissions, he called for the power of the Ombudsman to lodge a complaint against the order of the Disciplinary Ombudsman to refuse or terminate disciplinary proceedings and to lay down the conditions under which the child may be heard in the course of disciplinary proceedings. The Ombudsman called for restrictions on the hearing of a minor witness and the creation of instruments to protect him, including interviews in the presence of a psychologist and only if the child's testimony can be relevant to the resolution of the case, the application of the principle of one-off hearing, and the possibility of a child being heard only without the presence of the teacher concerned by disciplinary proceedings. I also requested that disciplinary responsibility be extended in accordance with Article. 6 of the "Teacher's Charter for teachers employed in public kindergartens, schools and institutions run by natural persons, legal persons other than local self-government units, and in non-public kindergartens and non-public schools with public school powers regardless of the employment dimension. It should be noted with satisfaction that most of the Ombudsman's requests for child protection in the disciplinary proceedings of teachers have been taken into account. The provisions of the revised Act. The Teacher's Card have been in force since May 2016. The more effective protection of the rights of children in youth education centres will certainly serve to increase, at the request of the ombudsman, the value of subsidies to the educators of these institutions but not to the centre. The weight of P46 has been increased from 3 to 5. The Ombudsman consistently commented on the functioning of day support facilities. In 2016, the Ombudsman's concerns raised the changes proposed in the provisions of the Family Support Act and the foster care system concerning the location of these facilities. The Ombudsman raised objections to the President of the Sejm Committee on Social Policy and the Family concerning the prohibition of the location of day-support facilities in one building with an organisation of the education system and the prohibition of the location of two or more day-support facilities in one building. The Ombudsman's claims were taken into account in a hundred percent. The Ombudsman has taken numerous steps to better safeguard the protection of minors' rights in judicial proceedings under the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of Child Abduction Abroad. The Ombudsman's submissions concerned the restoration of the possibility of bringing a cassation complaint in these cases and the withdrawal from the immediate enforceability of the provisions issued in that procedure. In response to the requests made in the Ministry of Justice, legislative work has been undertaken aimed at the introduction of the child's rights advocated by the Ombudsman. The recent statements by the Vice-Minister of Justice indicate that these work is advanced and that the projects will soon go to Parliament, which is very important and necessary. The Ombudsman also took steps to ensure a uniform pro-constitutional interpretation of the provisions of the Law on State Aid in Child Education, implementing the Government's Family 500+. The Ombudsman noted that the refusal to grant child benefit to foreigners with refugee status, subsidiary protection or humanitarian residence permit was incompatible with the constitutional principle of equal treatment between entities in similar factual and legal situations and with the principle that the State would provide assistance to families in difficult physical and social situations. The actions of the Ombudsman led to the consolidation of the case-law line and further changed the practice of administrative bodies which grant 500+ to foreigners as well. The government's efforts to support families with children have led to the repeated request made by the Ombudsman for children's rights in terms of the need to support material multi-children's families. That attention is no longer in the news this year. According to the Central Statistical Office, one in eleven persons lived below the minimum of existence in matrimonial holdings with three children and one in six in matrimonial holdings with four or more children. The situation has improved. Nor is it possible to refer to the Ombudsman's action to increase the criminal protection of minors. These activities were mainly carried out in 2016, but ended in 2017, therefore the information does not cover this important issue. The President of the Republic of Poland signed a law amending the Penal Code in April this year, which ended the work on regulations that are supposed to provide children more effectively with protection against violence. The initiator and designer of these changes in the law was the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. The amendments to the Penal Code increase the level of protection of minors with particular regard to children under the age of 15, as well as those who are not able to cope because of their mental or physical state. They also criminalise the failure to notify law enforcement of the most serious offences committed to the detriment of children. High Izbo, thank you for listening to the Ombudsman's information and for what has already been done in terms of strengthening the subjectivity of children and protecting their rights, but I would also like to mention the comments, just in words, and the messages of the Ombudsman, which require urgent action. They are described in detail in the section entitled: Notes on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. Because it's extensive material, I'm just gonna let you signal it. A longer description is in the information. This time I will also use these five rights, in accordance with the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. On the issue of the right to life and health, the demands are still valid. Some have been supplemented by the lack of availability of specialist physicians, underestimation of paediatric procedures for children and the need for an annual examination of each child by a paediatrician. I'm talking about every healthy child here. With a sick child, sooner or later a parent will go to a doctor. There are no medical standards in child health prevention from 5 to 18 years of age, but in fact there are no implemented standards because they are developed and expect implementation. Next: the quality of medical care provided to children, the risk of child health safety, the threat of the child's fate monitoring system being terminated... This is a very important topic. This system has been developed, but stops at birth standards. At a time when the perinatal standards will cease to function, and there is such an announcement, we will lose the entire system of monitoring the fate of a small child. The State will eventually apply for a child only when it is due to go to school. Further: quality of services and availability of psychiatric care. Psychiatry is still in decline. There is insufficient action to improve the condition of teething children, although as I said earlier, certain swallows promise in the spring. School health care and early prevention are insufficient. Further: Inclusion of children with rare high-specialized health care, insufficient cooperation between healthcare providers, limited availability of treatment in non-commercial clinical trials and certain modern medicines, the problem of self-harm, suicide attempts or even suicide of children, the problem of supporting young parents, including minors' parents, access to a gynecologist for minors, drinking alcohol by pregnant women... On this subject, the codification committee at the Ombudsman's hearing concludes the proposal for system solutions. I have repeatedly addressed this problem to the right resorts, but apart from setting up the problem teams, no proposals have been made, so I will be asking for a legislative initiative on the specific provisions that we will present. Other areas: limited availability of therapy for children with autism spectrum disorders; use of alcohol and other psychoactive agents by children; limited availability of forensic experts in many fields of medicine and necessary for the assessment of disability; use of medicines for non-medical purposes by young people; problem of preventive vaccination in children and the need to disseminate relevant knowledge on this subject; reduced number of children and young people receiving spa treatment; harmful use of solariums by children This subject, repeatedly raised by the Ombudsman, is likely to be dealt with this year because, at the President's initiative, a proposal for a good bill has been tabled, which, if the High Houses adopt it, will already protect children; the problem of overweight and obesity among children. The second category of problems to be solved is the category within the right to family upbringing. Areas: supporting biological families; the need to improve parental competence; the right of the child to be raised by both parents; the need to regulate the problem of so-called. Parental kidnappings In this regard, a specific proposal was made by the Ombudsman to the President's Office, together with a proposal for safeguards. Further: low awareness of the consequences of abducting a child abroad; the functioning of the family judiciary It also requires support and strengthening; the duration of judicial proceedings Unfortunately, the request has been valid since 2008; the stability of the educational environment of children placed in foster care; the problem of young children placed in institutional foster care. This information also includes a study report, and now we've taken up another one. Unfortunately, despite the provisions of the Family Support Act and the foster care system, young children still end up in institutional care, which should not be the case. Further: monitoring the quality of the work of care institutions; the functioning of day support facilities; judicial monitoring of the fate of the child and his/her biological family; implementation of the obligation to send the order of the court to an adoption centre; the need to introduce uniform rules for the performance of tasks by adoption centres; the limitation of contacts with children outside the family; adoption of children with disabilities and older children; guaranteeing minors' ability to raise a child; insufficient representation of the child; inefficiencies of enforcement proceedings; failure to comply with procedures for the execution of child contact with the parent; the need to hear the child in matters concerning him/her; lack of a procedure to hear the child in civil proceedings; the dissemination of mediation in family matters; the lack of an integrated system for obtaining information by the courts; the status of guardians in family and care; the lack of action for the return of children to biological families; the regulation of the legal situation of children placed in foster care; the organisation of training courses for candidates to perform the function of a foster family or family home home; the lack of representation of unaccompanied minors; monitoring the operation of the law on the promotion of the family and the protection system; the possibility of the possibility to lodge of judgments of a child in civil law on matters of a child on the basis of a border. But, as I said earlier, this subject may be regulated this year, because the work has been undertaken and there is official information of the Minister of Justice. Here I would like to point out that Poland has not yet ratified the Third Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, despite its own initiative. I have already received three answers from the government that we do not foresee ratification of this protocol. So that I ask for your support for this initiative. Further: the right of the child to participate both parents in the process of his education; the obligation to establish legal care for a child deprived of parental care; the examination of genetic material in matters relating to the origin of the child; the withdrawal from immediate enforceability of the provisions issued by the court of first instance on the basis of the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of the Abduction of the Child Abroad It also announces the implementation of this request; the right to national identity; the implementation of regulations on granting the consent of a minor foreigner to stay for humanitarian reasons; the increase of legal awareness among Polish emigrants. Many problems would be avoided if our citizens knew what punishment they were facing and what rules were in place in the country they went to. This also applies to our international rules, for example the Hague Convention. The Ombudsman has already taken educational action many times in this area, has issued special informants, which through Polish diplomatic offices were passed on to our citizens, but, as I see, the scale of the phenomenon shows that there is still a need for some work in this education. As regards the right to decent social conditions, I draw attention to: the difficult situation of families outside the state aid scheme; unequal treatment of families with regard to the availability of education; the problem of homelessness among children Unfortunately, again this year, this problem is still confirmed that the scale of the phenomenon is the same as it was; very low effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services; difficulties in enforcing maintenance services imposed by judgments of Polish courts from parents residing outside the country Here we have a particular problem with Italy; limited access to maintenance fund benefits has not been raised for 9 years; discrepancies in the case-law of the administrative authorities in determining the right to family benefits and allowances for family benefits. I would also like to draw attention to: a system of social assistance for families with children; a lack of protection of housing needs for families with children; a lack of a system of support for those leaving foster care; the quality of the process of emancipating pupils; a lack of temporary shelters for families with children; a lack of sufficient information on child benefits; assistance for children with disabilities; a lack of uniformity in the case-law of district decision-making teams; architectural barriers; a lack of home for mothers and fathers with minors and pregnant women; poor technical status and the elimination of playgrounds It's also a phenomenon that resonates. With regard to the right to study, the Ombudsman's comments pay particular attention to: teacher training in practical preparation for work; the practice of assessing the educational achievements of pupils and informing them about the criteria of evaluation; the supervision of heads of educational establishments; penalties affecting children's rights. continues to be an ongoing problem; access to nursery care; access for children aged 3 years to preschool education; equalisation of educational opportunities for children from rural areas and families with low material status; equal opportunities to learn for pupils with special educational needs; organisation of psychological and pedagogical assistance in kindergartens, schools and institutions; the use of inappropriate means of influence by teachers and directors of educational establishments; monitoring the quality of youth education centres and youth sociotherapy centres. The Ombudsman also points out: the lack of consistency of educational activities in schools; the care of children with disabilities and chronically ill; the feeding of children in educational establishments; the cooperation of schools with parents and carers; the transport of children to schools and kindergartens; the still low level of legal education; the right of children with disabilities to rest In general, there is only some proril of children with disabilities who use available forms of rest; the safety of children during out-of-school activities organised by private actors; bilingual instruction in primary schools after the reform of the education system; the functioning of plastic schools after the reform of the education system; the dissemination of sensitive data of pupils and their families; the rules of use of mobile phones in schools This is what young people ask most often. The Ombudsman also points out: response to discrimination; subjective treatment of the child at school; non-respect of the rules on lockers for pupils for school equipment Each school should be equipped with such lockers, but as the study I asked the chief health inspector to carry out indicated, unfortunately this is not the case; the non-compliance of intra-school rules with the applicable law. Further: excessive burdening of pupils with homework; access of blind and poorly sighted children to textbooks; access to new educational technologies for children with disabilities; access to cultural objects for children with disabilities; equal treatment of pupils taking part in competitions organised by school curators; fulfilment of obligations concerning amenities in television programmes for persons with disabilities; and - Still high-ranking. The problem of lice in schools and other institutions. The last area of the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child is the area of the right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment. In this respect, the Ombudsman makes the following observations. The use of corporal punishment to children is still noted. Attention should be paid to: the need to strengthen the criminal protection of minors, this was last year's remark; it was implemented this year by the Penal Code; the need to act effectively against hate speech; the need to respond to violence against children; the prevention and fight against child sexual abuse; the representation of the child in criminal proceedings; the reference to the so-called. non-systemic countertype of child discipline Unfortunately, this continues and is also practiced by the authorities appointed for protection; criminal and probation measures to combat family violence; child violence by carers and teachers; conditions for the hearing of minors and victims in criminal matters; participation of medical services in the recognition of violence among children; extension of the catalogue of cases excluding an institution for failure to commit a conviction. In addition, attention should be paid to: the application of a ban on child labour for minors who are convicted of violence; the prevention of child abuse in public space In this regard, I addressed a large general speech to the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture, on legislative action to protect the child in the media area, but also in public space; the detection of the children of foreigners in Poland; the protection of children from inappropriate content distributed in cinemas; the monitoring of the functioning of the law on anti-violence in the family; the identification of the child and his/her gender in statistics on victims of violence. It also concerns issues such as: guaranteeing the rights of minors placed in the child's police chambers In recent years, the Supreme Audit Chamber has also drawn attention to this issue; there are no questionnaires to assess the threat of violence and the algorithm in dealing with cases of diagnosed violence; the designation of a medical remedy for minors; the protection of minors' rights in legal proceedings; the protection of the benefit of a minor victim in pre-trial proceedings; the safety of children who suffer from violence in the family; the implementation of a national strategy against violence against children; the guarantee of full rights of defence for minors; the provision of adequate places in medical facilities for those who have been ordered by a court for rehab treatment; peer violence in schools and institutions; cyber violence in schools and institutions; uniform requirements for teachers; the implementation of the rules governing the disciplinary proceedings of teachers; the introduction of appropriate procedural guarantees for minors of foreigners and the problem of child begging. I trust that the government and Parliament will examine the comments submitted in depth and take further preventive action, legislative action that will better protect children. In conclusion, I am already authorized to say that more than five years have come to an end on the draft of a new family and caring code. The codifying committee is supposed to present it to me after vacation. So he can continue to be processed... I would be very pleased if the High House would take a legislative initiative in this area. I would also be happy and responsible to forward this project to the Senate to examine the proposed new solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you senators like to ask the Ombudsman any questions? Yes. You're reporting. The first was Senator Rafał Ambrozik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, I have a question. Recently, judges have said so much about upholding the Constitution. Why do you think the courts don't respect the Constitution for children? Why they decide about children as objects and do not comply with the article. 72. 3 constitutions and other provisions resulting from e.g. c.c.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u5	Thank you very much. Just a moment, Mr. Spokesman. Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, two short questions. First. You made almost 50,000 interventions last year. This, as you emphasized, is four times more than in 2008. How is this up to 2015 and 2014 in the context of the number of interventions? Second question. We all see today the escalation of the phenomenon of widely understood hate speech. I therefore have a question as to whether, and if so, what actions have been implemented by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child in order to prevent the speech of hatred among children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u7	Thank you very much. You're still Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u8	Thank you. I have two questions for your spokesperson. The first question concerns the lack of ratification of the said III protocol. Tell me... Why do you think this protocol This is about the Convention on the Rights of the Child Hasn't it been ratified? What raises the government's objections? That's the first question. The second question is the information you gave. You have examined 61 cases of taking children away from families by virtue of material circumstances, as indicated by the government document. You said you investigated all these cases and there were no indications. That is, what Mr. Deputy Minister Jak announced as his greatest success was... it didn't happen, so to speak. Then tell me... Why don't you tell me why the kids were being picked up? If not for one reason, why else? I'm not asking you to describe every case in detail. Maybe you can group them together or you can talk about them in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u9	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u10	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer the questions precisely. I draw attention to the activities carried out by the various institutions. Sometimes I think they don't actually protect the baby's welfare. I'm not declaring a violation of the Constitution by the courts, but I'm declaring the length of proceedings. In situations where I fear that the child's well-being may not be secured during the proceedings, I declare my participation. The conclusions that... They are described in detail in the information provided. As you can see, these proposals are mostly accepted by the courts. This is not enough, they are even used to develop a certain line of action in cases involving minors. As for the number of interventions you asked about, the senator did. it has increased four and a half times, but, as I said, it has remained at about the same level for the last three to four years, i.e. I think it's also the result of the fact that society is already informed, has knowledge of the Ombudsman's activities, about the institution. Also, look at the public opinion polls on the recognition of the Ombudsman's institution. The last study showed that she was over 10%. Thus, although it is a relatively young institution, it was possible to get information to people who were particularly interested. What I am particularly pleased about is the fact that a large percentage of the cases which the Ombudsman is taking are taken at the request of the interested parties themselves, the minors themselves who are looking for help, know where they can get this assistance and get it. As regards the escalation of the phenomenon to which the senator here has pointed out, the phenomena of hate speech and the actions which have been taken, I have also addressed the resorts in this respect, particularly the Ministry of Education, but I have also supported the campaign through the honourable patronages of the Ombudsman, through substantive support, and have also taken action on a daily basis in specific cases where either I have been asked for help or from the office, on the basis of media reports, I have addressed the matter to be clarified. Mr. Marshal asked two questions. The first is the III Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, so-called. a complaint protocol. It is worth noting that the UN Children's Rights Committee is the last committee that has not been able to complain. And it was on the initiative of the Polish Ombudsman of the rights of the child that this protocol was created. This is an initiative tabled to the UN, taken by the United Nations, it is adopted and today... Help me, I can't remember how many countries have ratified... [[Voice from the room: 39]] 39 countries have already ratified this protocol, and it has entered into force. I have asked the government three times in the last few years to ratify it, so that we are again in the forefront of the countries that want to protect the rights of their youngest citizens and declare that they are protecting them. Last answer, this year... I don't have it here because I didn't prepare it, but I'll introduce you to the marshal. On behalf of the government, the Minister of the Family replied that Poland does not provide for ratification of this protocol Which makes me very sad. Especially since we have no cause for concern, we are a country that tries on all levels, and legislatively, and in such daily activities, to respect the rights of the child. Our accession to this protocol would be a confirmation of some consequence. It was Poland that submitted a draft Convention on the Rights of the Child to the United Nations almost 30 years ago. And today, this document, called the World Constitution for the Rights of the Child, protects children all over the world, and we have our absolute share in it. Well, it's a little worth noticing that nobility obliges. Because Janusz Korczak, Irena Sendlerowa, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, UNICEF on the initiative of Poland, the Order of Smile... I think there should be a continuation here, only strengthening the protection of Polish children. But at the same time, so to speak, adding to the fact that we want children all over the world to be protected, that they are also of interest to us. The second question concerned this study, these 61 cases. Of course, I was very concerned, because every day I study situations in which such decisions are made, and all these media cases that were described in such a way that for various reasons, but also poverty, children were taken away, were especially close to me and particularly carefully studied. That information hasn't been confirmed. Unfortunately, that's the way it is with the media information that it's first served... but then it gets a little curious. Little Maciś's grandmother was not taken away because he was obese, although the whole of Poland thought he was; and you in Wrocław did not take your children because of her obesity, although such information went. There's been a lot of misinformation about picking up kids because of the social situation. Polish courts do not receive or take children because of their material situation. Besides, it's not just from my research. It is worth noting that such a study was undertaken in parallel by the Institute of Justice under the Minister of Justice. The Institute's report contains the same conclusions as the Ombudsman. So that 2 independent institutions have carried out a thorough analysis of this problem. And none of these cases have been confirmed. If the senator asks what the reasons were... The main cause in these cases was violence. I think 18 cases were a statistical error, which means it wasn't included in this column... Later, by way of control, it was checked. But, as I say, mostly violence, neglect, extreme negligence, leaving the baby unattended, without food for a while. Sometimes the fourth or fifth reason may have been material status, but he didn't decide that the court made one decision or another. It's worth correcting. Moreover, the report from this study is an annex to the information I am presenting to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Antoni Szymanski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first relates to the problem of the fact that many parents do not consider it their primary duty to provide for their children. This isn't just about alimony, because alimony can be unretired. They just don't put money on their kids. Well, the backlog of the maintenance fund proves it best. Can you count on what the Prime Minister of the Senate family committee is appealing to you after your meeting this week, and that you will join in a campaign that... We hope that the Prime Minister will accept our request, that he will accept our dissertation on this matter. The point is to convince everyone that this is the primary duty of parents. This isn't about some short campaign, it's about one that's actually gonna change attitudes, and this kind of campaign has to be spread out for years, maybe even to be effective. The second question concerned foster care. In the last few years, we have changed the nature of the foster care towards a family form. This is our great success, but the number of children who are in foster care is huge, because it's almost 1% Polish children. Regardless of these changes, the number of these children is decreasing little. This system has stabilised and it seems very convenient, as it seems, also for various institutions, I do not hesitate to say. What can be done to destabilize it in such a way that children are more likely to return to the environments of biological families, so that in this system, which is undoubtedly better than the institution system, there are much fewer children than at the moment? That's 1%. children this is really Polish drama... We must make it very clear that the number of children in foster care should be reduced, of course not artificially, and that family environments should be prepared to return to these biological families. Thank you. [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: Thank you for your questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u13	Thank you very much. And you are Marshal Michael Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u14	Minister, my question is this. How do you assess the adoption procedures in Poland, the rules on the adoption of children and the practice of their application? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u15	Thank you very much. And Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u16	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, I'm going to start by wishing you a birthday, because you seem to be having a birthday today. [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] Happy birthday. I wish you to continue this efficient office for the sake of Polish children. Now for the questions. Several times in your speech, you discussed various aspects of children with disabilities. I'd like to ask you first if... Because it's complicated with the education of children with disabilities. This is a question of supporting teachers, this is a question of individual teaching. But it is also a question of giving the opportunity to use different forms of education, not just individual teaching. And I would like to ask if the cases concerning this area have affected you during this period. And if so, what position did you have, and how do you even see this issue? And question two. Various initiatives have recently emerged, there are announcements of various initiatives that would change abortion law in such a way as to eliminate the condition of severe damage to the foetus, so-called. eugenic. Since, on the one hand, there are groups that collect signatures, on the other hand, there is a request to the Constitutional Court, and I do not know whether it has already been submitted, but there is such information that it is to be submitted, and I would like to ask whether the cases concerning this subject have come to you. And if so, what position did you take, and how do you even judge this issue and this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u17	Thank you very much. Please, Minister. [[Child Rights Ombudsman Marek Michalak: Already?]] Yeah, yeah, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for this question about the adoption procedures and the practice of their application, because this is a fresh topic It will be reflected in the information for this year Just at the turn of these years, I set up a special team that worked on assessing what we have and proposals that should change. The result of this team's work If your Marshal is more interested in this subject, I will give it in writing to the President and the Minister of the Family with proposals for specific changes and regulations and regulations. We also presented harmonised standards for the work of adoption centres, because it turned out that in one non-federal country cases were handled differently. As regards the improvement, I will present the details in writing. This is undoubtedly the problem of not regulating the legal situation of children; and here I also refer to what Senator Szymański asked, because this is also somewhat the answer to this second question. I have repeatedly applied for speeding up the situation, so colloquially speaking, either one way or the other, so that the child does not fund his entire life in an institution or in a foster care, and therefore not the target family: either return to a biological family, or the possibility of being in an adoption family, but among the people who will only take care of this child and this child will receive an M-vitamin in unlimited amounts. And here's the problem. I don't know what to call it or lack of readiness or sometimes courage to make this final decision. The fact that in any mass examination carried out by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child And now it's happening again. It turns out that this situation is improving, and it turns out that a small number of these children can either return to the biological family or be released and enter the adoption process. Because we have this institutional problem, and the senator is very well aware of it, in point. I'm sure it's in the right direction, i.e. deinstitutionalisation is good, but now these noble slogans, these noble actions must also translate into more courage in practice. Although it is also worth noting that the number of children in foster care has decreased by 17,000 700 since the introduction of the assistant family into the system. So we can probably see the success here. Perhaps one of the conclusions This should certainly be an increase in the number of these assistants and their ability to act, but also a real impact on encouraging people to open their homes and run different forms of family care. And here flyers and billboards are not a good incentive. As I observe, it is rather that responsible people And we only want children to get into them. First they will go and ask someone who already runs a family like this: how is it that you get support... As it turns out, it's hard, and there's no backup, the right one... I'm not talking about financial support, because these people are often presented as if they were taking care of children for money, and they're not. Well, if there are such cases, it's some kind of individual, but in principle they're good people who want to help another person, and they also need help, direct access to a psychologist, medical direct access... It's not level-protected all over the country. That's what I'm paying attention to, too. [[All right, all right, all ……]] Yes. I started with a second card, which is why... I'm sorry. As far as the topic of child support is concerned, as I have already said, with the Ombudsman, we have set up a special expert team working on it and every initiative supporting and parallel absolutely what I am saying on my behalf and also on behalf of I think I'm authorized. The Ombudsman, we will support. One of the demands, and this was also raised several times, was to carry out a campaign. This campaign took place somewhere, but she didn't have what the senator noticed, the right force of destruction. And that should be on a principle, as the PR say, you open the fridge and you see the message again. It certainly wasn't. If this is the decision of the committee, this is honey for my heart, I will certainly support it very much and where I will be able to help and support it, I will certainly do so, because this is about implementing the child's right to decent social conditions, but also about the proper relations that should apply. I think I answered that second question earlier. I share it... [[Thank you very much.]] ...senator's opinion. It's a Polish drama. We have to face it and simply solve this problem, because undoubtedly the child is happiest in the family, or in his biological, if possible, in the foster or adoption. Maybe even a little bit of order needs to be changed here. Thank you, senator, for your wishes. In fact, the Senate today made me such a gift that he invited me to the debate on the rights of the child, which I note, because any opportunity to talk and present children's problems is our duty, and especially the duty of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. So I am glad that you senators always take this subject with such concern for Polish children, and therefore my appeal for the family and caring code, because I know that the spokesperson for children's rights on the Senate could always count on this legislative initiative, and that is what I care about today. With regard to education, widely understood education of children with disabilities, I am, of course, taking this subject up on an ongoing basis and in individual matters, and in general speeches, the senator will see the reflection of this speech... I understand that this question is related to recent announcements on individual teaching and changes in this area. I had a long conversation, in addition to the speeches I also had a conversation with Minister Zalewska on this matter and, as far as I know, my experts and experts of the Ministry have still leaned on it and not all the things that were announced will be included in the regulations. The Minister has promised especially to lean on the availability that will be best for children. I'm in the position that it's not the officials, but the professionals, which is in this case psychological and pedagogical counseling, that they should have a decisive vote when it comes to deciding whether the child is to be at home, whether to be at school, whether he has... Of course, she's supposed to be with her parents. I absolutely do not ignore them here, because this is the most important. But you can't take away your child's ability to attend, for example, a few hours a month or a week, to school, because it's also for him to exercise his rights, many rights, including the right to education. With regard to the second subject here, the eugenic premise and action to protect children's lives, as I have said many times to the High House, the Ombudsman is always on the side of the rights of the child and the right of the child to live. Thus, the individual applications which are addressed to the Ombudsman shall be dealt with on an ongoing basis. In addition, as you will see, in last year's information, the Ombudsman also referred applications to the prosecutor's office and to the relevant institutions, to other spokespersons and to the Ministry on protective measures and actions to investigate situations where an infringement could have occurred. But like I said, 2 days ago it was 9 years ago, as the first time I stood before the High House I will repeat the same now: the law in force is passed by the Sejm and the Senate, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child has no possibility of changing the law, he is the guardian of the law which is in force, so any initiative is on the side of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u19	Now you have the floor of Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u20	Thank you very much. You've talked a lot about the number of interventions and cases that have been handled over the course of this year, but it's all somehow embedded in the budget. I would like to ask what the budgetary perspective of the Ombudsman's Office for 2018 looks like in the context of what you had for this office in 2017, with particular emphasis on employment or employment or co-workers. Because the number of co-workers and employees who deal with cases depends on the waiting time for cases to be dealt with, on taking such a large number of interventions. As you develop the scope of the tasks you have mentioned here, and with so many issues and problems, is there a chance that better funding will enable you to shorten all kinds of deadlines? That's the first question. The other one's like this. You mentioned a huge number of state offices and bodies with which the Ombudsman works... [[Child Rights Ombudsman Marek Michalak: The Child.]] I would like to ask you who you work with the most difficult and which of these organs is the most slow to cooperate with, and with which authorities succeed, so to speak, to go hand in hand in matters concerning the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u21	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u22	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. This first question is very important and very important. As you know, Senators, the spokesperson has never been a claim body. I have never submitted draft budgets that go beyond the possibilities or concern, but the fact that today, in view of the number of cases that we are taking, and especially with regard to the employment clause, is very difficult, is very difficult. I have already submitted a draft budget for a year to come with a request to increase it by probably 9,7% which on the scale of my budget would give about PLN 1 million. And if I can count on support, in support of this proposal, I would be very grateful, because it would actually make a lot of opportunities more accessible, improve the speed of action and many of the issues that follow. The employees of the Ombudsman's Office work very hard, take a lot of cases and do not count for hours or anything, because they know who they work for. But there is no doubt that helping us with additional jobs is extremely necessary, especially as the number of cases involving the phone of trust and the number of international cases is increasing. Control is needed This is the aspect in which I must exceptionally strengthen the Ombudsman's actions, because they are very absorbing in this area. Honestly, I'd rather talk about it... As you can see, for the last nine years, I have been based on a positive message in terms of cooperation. I would rather encourage authorities and institutions to take joint action. The fact that it isn't always easy, sometimes even very difficult, but some bodies speak especially about resorts They have already learned that the Ombudsman is stubborn and that once he is finished, it will not be done. I do not postpone ad acta speeches to which I get a negative response, only write a second time, write a third time, write a fourth time, use different forms and acquire other allies. That's right, on this third protocol I got a very brief and very meaningful response. As before and before, the Ombudsman was also informed this time that there would be no such action. But that doesn't mean I'm discouraged. I believe that Poland should ask for its children and other children in the world, and that the third protocol should therefore be ratified. Senator, if you don't mind me saying so, I'm gonna be a little bit sideways about this question because I don't want to... It doesn't change anything if I brand someone here, although there are some resorts that you can see in the information that I have to write to for the second and third time to be answered to the letter sent the first time. And there are also some things that have been left unanswered. This is new to me because I've never had such a problem for so many years of office. After a gentle reminder, it was rather the word "sorry" and all this was quickly completed, and now there are actually such situations that after three reminders there is no answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u23	The question is Senator Józef Łyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, I'd like to ask you something and raise a problem that you haven't practically touched. Namely, I mean the children's homes, this disgusting relic of the past. My question is: what is the current government going to do or what is it doing in the direction of the liquidation of the children's homes? The problem concerns about 20,000 children who live in children's homes. Not to mention the economic aspect. The cost of keeping the child in a child's home is up to 5 000, so we should go towards foster families where this cost is definitely decreasing, because in foster families it is so that those who undertake it receive about PLN 1 thousand 700. And not to mention the other conditions of upbringing and living, but these children from the children's homes, as soon as they reach their teens, are actually left to themselves. As it ends, we all know. Therefore, my fundamental question is: what is the government doing in this direction? Is it going to end these houses, which I think should happen as soon as possible? The second point I would like to raise is the rights of children that you spoke so much about for nearly an hour. The scope of these rights will expand, because in this direction this is all going on, but I do not think that we should lead to complete incapacity in the educational process of both teachers and parents. I was a child in the 1960's, raised in a certain discipline both at school and at home. We know that at the time at school, if there was any inappropriate behavior, it was in use so-called. teacher's line and at home It was rare, but it was a father's belt. And I don't remember that in the '60s, in the '70s, there was a student in school who would put a trash can on his teacher's head. It happens now... [[Mr. Senator, question.]] [[Voice from the room: Discipline, Mr. Marshal.]] ...that's why I brought it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u25	You already did, didn't you? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u26	Good. There were two questions. In the first question, Mr. Senator, you seem to have given the answer. I, apart from one thing, agree with everything the senator said. And with the diagnosis that's been made, and with these numbers, because they actually are. Except I didn't say anything about it. I didn't use the name of the baby's house, I told you about the nursing and care centers; I talked about the young children in nursing homes. In my reply to Senator Szymański, I spoke about the actions that should be taken both in the judicial sphere and in the administrative sphere. I was talking about what the family assistant brought in on this subject. I also talked about the fact that the Ombudsman set up a standardisation team for the self-emancipation of pupils, a little bit beyond his statutory obligations, because this already applies to de facto adults, but their protection takes place in childhood. And you're absolutely right. It's limping. That is why I gathered specialists, very good ones, from all over Poland, who analyzed this point after point for several months. It is also worth saying that all these specialists in the problem groups of the Ombudsman are working socially, coming, taking these actions and sharing their knowledge. And we have made concrete suggestions to the family department about what to do. If your senator is more interested in this subject, then I can forward it to you for information. But what the government will do about it, I can't answer. [[Okay, thank you.]] This question will have to be addressed to the government because it is on the side of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. I hope it won't be... Many of my speeches also concern the solution to this problem. I'm absolutely on the deinstitutionalization side. I mean, I'm aware that not all institutions can be closed down because there's a group of kids who've been in foster homes a couple of times, and then they go back to a nursing home. Nor can such unshakable reality and lack of security be founded. So it's important for these kids to keep it. But I'm sure there's a number of facilities. It's almost 20,000, because there are actually so many, although the facilities are smaller, it's too big. So, by looking at the case after the case, I admit there's still some work to be done here, I'm sure it is. As for the second question, I understand that the senator was saying it with some nostalgic... And I'm happy to say again that this reality has changed and that we have, however... well, not so much revolution in this educational system as evolutionaryly we have come to the fact that today we talk more with children and solve problems without violence. That doesn't mean stress-free, because I also want to make it clear that I'm not the advocate of what's underneath the motto: stress-free upbringing. I believe that children must be taught to live in today's reality, but not violence, but strengthening, strengthening assertiveness, strengthening self-esteem. It's about this direction. In those days, the media may not have been so everywhere, but I can assure you that some bad things have happened, too. It's just this drastic case, not from the last time, but from about 20 years ago, which Mr. Senator presented... Although considering such cases single, fortunately, it's not a standard, in every reality there's going to be something that's a deviation from the norm. It's also worth looking at what happened earlier. Because it's also about not having certain boundaries that should be. There must be boundaries in the upbringing, too. It's not like I'm just giving, and you're just taking. I said an hour about the rights of the child... I could probably say more hours, but I was asked. 'Cause today's the last pre-vacation session. I didn't want to talk for more than an hour, so I tried to fit in at that time. But I also remind you that I'm a spokesperson for the rights of the child. Well, who's supposed to remind you of those rights if it's not the children's spokesperson? When I talk about certain responsibilities, duties or something, I talk about responsibilities, the duties of the adult world above all. However, when I'm seeing children, I'm inviting the senator to this meeting, maybe one day I'll be in the field with your senator. They also get very clear information from me that every man has the same dignity and everyone needs to be protected. And it's not like I can walk into other people's territory with my rights and do something destructive. And using the concept of a man, I think not only of children, but also of parents, teachers, catechists, police officers, all the others. But about how important the rights of the child are and how important it is to approach them... If you don't mind, I'm gonna end this time with a quote that I pulled out of Familiaris Consortio John Paul's Exhortation. II, who also claimed the rights of the child Directly, not even by default, but directly And he said that in the family, the community of people... he wrote, because it has an even greater... The particular concern should be surrounded by the child; we should develop a deep respect for his personal dignity and And that's important because I haven't met that concept in any other literature. With honor and generosity to serve his rights, the rights of the child. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u27	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u28	Thank you. Mr Ombudsperson, yes, I would like to remind you that it was the Constitution of 1997, so 20 years ago, that was emphasized the rank of Ombudsman as a constitutional body. But let's get to the questions. First question. Can you give the Senate information about the importance, effectiveness of speeches to the public administration, understood, of course, as central and local authorities or other institutions? How do you assess the effectiveness of your speeches? Second question. Kids... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] ...traveling with their parents, in numbers... in a huge mass to Europe. Don't you think that education and other processes should address the issue of children's rights in Europe, our Polish children in Europe, i.e. increase their awareness, legal awareness of course? Third question. So-called. windows of life in Poland were the subject of criticism by certain institutions that operate in New York. I'm not just asking for your opinion, I'm just saying, were we able to defend this great institution?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u29	Thank you very much. Since this point has been going on for one and a half hours, I have decided to group the three of you with questions. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! One question about the situation of our children abroad. Well, as far as the Jugendams are concerned, I think we all have a clear stand. But your report shows that a situation similar to that in Germany is also in the Netherlands. Are there other countries, apart from the Netherlands and Germany, where parents are forbidden to contact their parents in Polish when taking their children away? How would you at the same time comment on the situation in the UK, where there is another model, and try to introduce our country into possible proceedings? One last question. Because these things are very shocking... Have you applied to any of the international organizations, e.g. to the Council of Europe, with a complaint about proceedings, and, in general, to the Dutch or German authorities, or to another country in connection with the treatment of our children outside the country?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u31	And Mr. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u32	Once, more than a year ago, I had a certain need to deal with the issues of youth education centers, which used to be called reform houses. And I have two questions. The first one will be a repeat, because I would like to get an answer to the question: why does 1 person stay, 1 guesthouse cost so much? This is probably more than a colleague said it would be over 6,000 a month. And he can live very well, I think, a couple of people's families. Especially since we're talking about the net amount. The second thing is about some experience when I started looking at a local case, and it's about Rejowiec. It turned out that there is a huge concentration, in the geographical sense, of these houses in Silesia, there are at the moment 9 or 11 of them, they are being liquidated in other voivodships and moved there. When I took a closer look at it and started looking for an argument, it turned out that, as always, finance is it. These houses bring over 800 million dollars of income to this region, which I think is due to this huge stake per person. What's interesting is... There's something going on there that I'd like to draw your attention to, because sometimes it reminds me of situations... I think we'd have to go to some institutions that deal with such things, not quite fair actions, to explain why such concentration appeared in one place. In other voivodships there are 2, 3 houses each, and in this one there are within 10. I would very much ask for an answer mostly on financial matters.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u33	You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, as regards the effectiveness of the speeches, I will say that the information from each year contains a detailed discussion of them, and the table also refers to what they have brought. I think it's possible to... of course I would always like them to have even more power and to have these demands even better fulfilled. Nevertheless, I decided And I did it this year. Before the comments that I present and analyse every year, I also present those requests that have been implemented, because this also shows that certain actions, sometimes taken with stubbornness, make sense and somewhere have an effect. But yes, sometimes I meet, as I said before, with the answer: no, because I didn't. This is obviously difficult to accept, but the Ombudsman is a control body, an initiating body, and decisions must be taken by implementing bodies at different levels. I must also point out that sometimes such decisions can be challenged and I use this way, for example. to the administrative court. And it happens, as in the case of one of the municipalities who did not listen to the Ombudsman's requests and requests, but after receiving the invitation to the court, she made the right decision to bring the child to a rehabilitation centre. So I try to use the whole range of means in which the Polish spokesman was equipped. And it is also worth noting that in comparison with other institutions in the world, the Polish parliament took the most care of its spokesman, because this assortment is, and I use it. Except it's not always... The so-called one often appears. wall. When it comes to children's rights in Europe, Europe and the world, they are the same. They come from the Convention on the Rights of the Child. If we were to expand our education, maybe something specific, something more eligible, something that maybe is not even a law, and privilege, sometimes the possibility of enjoying in a given country... Because when it comes to education on children's rights In fact, we often talk about this with the ombudsman of children's rights. It should be continuous, it should be repeated at every educational level, also reinforced by mass media or significant people. Yeah, because childhood has a thing for it that it takes a certain period and ends, and for someone else it starts. And here you can't do campaigning tasks, say, and now we're going to be educating for five years, and it's going to stay that way forever. This education must be continuous. That is why I have addressed to the Minister of Education my proposals on the draft programming basis at various levels, which point out that we cannot ignore this topic, forget about it, because it must be constantly strengthened. Children are to have a sense of their citizenship. This is something that we are already talking about today, about children's participation, about children's citizenship. Children are to have a sense of belonging, but also a sense of self-esteem based on human rights. That is why these actions are extremely important here. The third question was about the windows of life. I would also like to thank you very much for this question, because it was the spokesperson of the rights of the child who was the first and probably the most institutional one to take action, a little in spite of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. ♪ I'll do it every day ♪ I have also been appointed to do this, but I did not agree to this recommendation. But I did not agree not only when it touched Poland, but earlier, when it was published for other countries in Europe. At that time, I had already asked Prime Minister Tusk to take protective action and presented an interpretation of the Ombudsman's rights. Because that's where the committee took the stand that we don't protect the right to life by protecting the right to identity. I do, though. "I believe that the right to life is such a first right and that it should be taken into account first, and only later... Otherwise, we'll be talking about protecting the identity of the dead children. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. This is a brutal reality. And then the government made a clear commitment that there are no restrictive movements in Poland or removing windows of life. When Poland submitted a report to the Committee on the Rights of the Child, I repeated my position once again, I already addressed it to the government by Prime Minister Szydło. This position has been upheld, even before the committee. I think it was important because it was not just a political decision of the government body, the committee was also presented with the opinion of an independent body protecting the rights of the child. And, I think, today you can say that these previous actions did not harm the idea, or maybe even helped to understand it. Because it's also worth noting that the window of life is not part of the care system. Sometimes it's like this, but it's not... This is part of the emergency system somewhere between the police and the emergency room. And we don't say... We do not encourage these windows to be full, we just say: in a situation where you no longer have any other idea, do not throw your child under the bridge, do not bury him in the backyard, but put him in a place that will guarantee his safety and help him continue to function. Yes? And that's why anonymity is guaranteed here. It's also worth noting that... because sometimes you abuse the phrase "s" she abandoned in the window of life. You don't abandon yourself in the window of life. He throws himself under a bridge or in the woods, and he leaves himself in the window of life, so that the child is safe, so that he can continue to... And these terms cause pejorative associations, such a view of this person as well. And in this respect, judging is the worst thing that can be done. You can't judge here, you have to be happy that the baby's alive. [[Another round of questions.]] No, no, there were two more questions. [[Uh-huh.]] I'll try to talk less because I see you're speeding up the marshal. [[Thank you very much.]] When it comes to children abroad, Just like the senator said. This year I devoted even an additional chapter to this topic, which is why there is a description of other countries. In fact, we have observed that not only the possibility of contact is limited in the Netherlands, but also e.g. Siblings are separated, which is also worrying, because in our legal order we think about these children and in this matter we insist. As far as the Germans are concerned, I already told you last year. All I can say is that the tour of the Ombudsman of the Lands and the meetings with the committees of petitions of the Land Parliaments result in our consuls having a well-established contact with an institution that has any influence on the institution making subsequent decisions, which we note positively. Great Britain. Great Britain is a country where there are very many Poles, so different interventions can be more So not because the service there is so zealous, just because there are more of us there. We took some action together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, invited the representatives of the courts, the services of the United Kingdom to Poland to gain a little confidence in our solutions and so that, when they make decisions about Polish children in the future, they feel that sending the child to Poland is not a directing into some vacuum, because here are also the appropriate institutions that will take care of its protection, monitoring. And that brings good results. And the second thing that we took up at the time is this. We encouraged the services or institutions of this country to entrust the role of foster families also to Poles, so that Polish children do not enter a separate linguistic, cultural environment. And it started to happen. Not yet as much as we wish, but this action has been taken, implemented. I think this is such a safe direction, because I have no direct influence on decisions made in a foreign country. I have powers within our country. If I perform outside the borders, either through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the appropriate consulate or embassy, or, if there is an institution of the Ombudsman, to the Ombudsman. But unfortunately, I have to say that sometimes I meet, like for example. in Norway, with a kind of response: I would love to help you solve this problem, but I do not have the powers of the Polish Ombudsman of the rights of the child and I cannot investigate this case. Sometimes that's the way it is. When it comes to discipline or influence, the opportunities of the Ombudsman are limited, because such requests are directed through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by an executive body, that is, by the government. But thanks to my membership of the European Network of Ombudsmen of the Rights of the Child This is the body that brings us together, and I also had the pleasure of being president of this network for a year, in 2012, so I have a good translation of the action and dialogue among people who are particularly involved in defending the rights of the child. There have been situations where we have been able to help the Polish children's affairs, for example, together with a spokesman in Lithuania, with whom cooperation is working well. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal... Oh, no, one more thing. I'm sorry, because I didn't answer to the senator and the senator. About the cost... I think the senator was talking about a lower cost, but he meant a nursing-education facility, and in turn the senator was talking about rehabilitation facilities, and there was actually a stay there. It costs more. Except the amount you mentioned isn't a uniform amount, it's the same amount everywhere, because when the Supreme Audit Office examined, for example. Correctional establishments, it said that this amount reached up to 20,000, a few years ago there was such a report. So it's uniform, too. As far as their creation is concerned, it is done under certain conditions, legally defined, and I have no influence on that. The only action I can take is to check whether the rights of the child are respected, and if they are not, I can call on the appropriate report to remedy the situation or to call on other authorities to take action that is appropriate to them because of the possibilities. Now I'm not gonna answer that question precisely, but this Silesia... I do not know if the senator is only talking about institutions of a therapeutic and rehabilitation character, namely MOS, MOWs, because there are also many SOWs in Silesia, and they are in another category. And that's the subject that I think the senator remembers. The spokesperson of the rights of the child examined very thoroughly and took the lead, the case of the SOWs was taken up, even aroused special interest in public space, when in one of them there was a very wicked treatment of children. At the time, the director was Bernadett's sister, whom the media wrote about.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u35	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that this point has been going on for two hours, we are still with questions, and there is still a debate ahead of us. I'm getting questions from the senators if I can cut it short. I'm afraid I can't. I can only appeal to the senators not to join the list and ask brief questions, and I can appeal to your spokesperson to answer them in a concise manner. I have three senators registered right now. Can we close the list? Senators Wach, Libicki and Jackowski... Yes? [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] [[You can, you can.]] Well, that's three questions and then answers, I hope, concise, your spokesperson. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Ombudsperson, the press reports that it seems more and more that there are drastic crimes against children, including young children. I'm thinking about beatings and even killings. You've had a long experience, and I think you know the statistics on this. Is it really so, or is it just bigger, so to speak, sensitivity and sensitivity of the press? And what can possibly be done about it, apart from the obvious things, that is, penalization and efforts to reduce pathology?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u37	Thank you. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, I have the following question. It is always the case that when a large social group appears, there are also various problems associated with it. The question is... We are talking about the fact that there are a million people from Ukraine who work in Poland. These are mostly people without children, but they are often whole families. And here's the question: in this case, have you encountered any situations requiring assistance or intervention? How's this thing looking from your perspective? If you have any written material, maybe it would speed things up, too, if I could get that kind of written material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. In your duties there is also a kind of protection of human life, so, well, from conception, as it appears literally from the Polish constitution, to natural death. You're a spokesperson for the rights of a child, so we're talking about a child in this prenatal phase right now. Please tell me whether you are monitoring the implementation of the current law allowing the destruction of human life in special cases, or whether this law is overinterpreted and used for purposes contrary to its purpose. How do you view the destruction of human life, for example, due to genetic defects, including, for example, genetic defects. The kids who have Down syndrome? Do you think it's humane? Would I ask for an answer, yes or no, or inhumane? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u41	Thank you very much. I'm asking your spokesperson for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u42	Thank you. As for the last question, Mr. Senator, I was just answering it... [[It's already been done.]] I was answering to Senator Libicki. I was talking about it at first. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: At first, studies were cited.]] I'll start over. Mr. Marshal asked for discipline, so I'll try a little... [[Thank you very much.]] You have also taken such action. When it comes to drastic cases and how it looks statistically, it is today that violence against children is becoming increasingly disappointing. The year-to-year acceptance is decreasing. Since the introduction of a statutory ban on child abuse, acceptance of child violence, including physical punishment, has decreased by 30%. This is shown by the research that we conduct every year. Media information does not always translate into reality because one case is often repeated several times during the day and during the week. The fact that it is shown and made public, I do not deny it at all, because if something is wrong, it must be shown and stigmatized. But there are no more cases like this. Over the years... violence against children still in 2008. Now I'm talking from memory, so I'm asking for a little correction. As a rule, I'll try not to make a mistake. Blue cards were established in 2008 due to violence against children. 47 grand with a hook, and less than 20,000 last year. More services are taking action here, so you can see a drop. As far as the most serious cases you've been asking the senator... If we look at the children's homicide statistics, we'll see that these numbers are decreasing, both in terms of homicide and in terms of child homicide. This is a different classification. We'd like that, I always reserve that, so there won't be a single one. It's hard to say about hurrahoptimism here, but if there's finally a downward trend, if you've managed to stop the growing trend that has been over the years, that's something. I'm sure education and consistency are needed. Parliament's decision to adopt an amendment to the criminal code and show the priority of the child, to show that the child is not an object and that the damage to his body will not be the same punishment as for stealing the TV. And that's what happened. This is an educational signal that went to society. It clearly states that violence against a child is no longer a crime, as has been qualified so far, but a crime. A child is a priority, and people who know about violence and do not respond can be held accountable. I think it's... it's not about filling prisons with people, it's about educating people. And this education is definitely happening. The first effect of the revision of the penal code, such a significant and important one, is to change the instructions of the Polish Episcopate for superiors of various religious groups in response to a situation when they come into possession of information that the child has been harmed. So far they have been able, and now they must, in accordance with Polish law, notify the prosecution, the law enforcement authorities. I think we're very consistent here. If I had to tell you what else we should do, then... That's what I'm pointing out in information. A national strategy to fight violence against children is needed. All of this must be brought together, tied together and forced people to cooperate, to take appropriate action in this area. I have a negative answer for now, but I hope I can persuade the government to take action to adopt such a strategy. The senator's second question was about foreigners. The senator asked about the Ukrainians here, but there are others. In fact, this group is... I have repeatedly taken action in this area. It's not enough when a family with children who have entered our reality, which they participate in, and for which it would be traumatic to return to their country... I have repeatedly performed in such situations at the administrative court, and I have always won such cases. There were, like, 30 foreign cases last year. Mrs. Director, I don't think I was wrong about the numbers, but I'm gonna give the senator the exact information because we've been working on it. I already answered the last question, and I don't know if I should repeat...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u43	Excellent. I don't think... Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u44	I asked you specifically whether you did or didn't. Do you think that vanquishing human life in the case of children who have, for example, Down syndrome, is it humanitarian or not? That's a question you, to my knowledge, didn't answer when you answered our questions today. That was one of the three questions I asked your spokesperson. I would very much ask for a specific answer to that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u45	No. He's not humane. [[Excuse me?]] He's not humane. I'm answering. [[He's not humane. Thank you for that answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u46	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Spokesman, for patiently answering all your questions. [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, Marek Michalak, has committed himself to providing written answers to questions raised by Senator Sewerinski and Senator Libicki. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bobka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Senate! Helping others, especially helping children, is a beautiful kind of human activity. And here I would like to begin by expressing my respect for your activity, this very broad, meticulous, everyday in small and larger matters. It's a beautiful kind of activity. In my speech today, I would like to focus on more general matters, not on the specifics of life, but on the more general ones. And it is worth reminding here that in the Constitution issues relating to the rights of the child or at all the situation of the child are raised in several places. First in the article. The 18th speech is the protection of marriage, motherhood and parenthood. It's worth bringing it up here and reminding you of that. Today we talk about children in terms of children's rights, and categories...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u48	Excuse me a second, Senator. I have been informed by the secretary's senator that the Ombudsman has committed himself to giving a written answer to the question asked by Senator Łyczak. So, for the record, this is three senators: Sewerinski, Libicki and Łyczak. Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u49	I'd like to remind you of the obvious. I think it's still obvious, at least in Poland. The basic categories are marriage, parenthood, motherhood, and the concept of child rights, even though it falls most often today, is the highest complementary. Art. 48 talks about the right of parents to raise a child, so once again the competence of parents is basic and constitutionally guaranteed here. Only in the article. 72 already appears a more modern category of protection of the rights of the child and the institution of the Ombudsman, who upholds the rights of the child. It is worth realizing the tension or hybridity of those constitutional records which, on the one hand, give parents fundamental rights to children and, on the other hand, also expose the laws of the State. And this tension exists today also in our contemporary culture. In many dominant European trends... Maybe I'll say it with a little bit of an exaggeration, but I'd like to point it out. Many people or many European environments today feel that the family is actually a source of pathology or a threat to the child and the role of the state is to prevent these pathologies. In the 1990's, such a trend also appeared, and so the issue of fighting violence in the family became a priority and to some extent it is a priority in protecting the rights of the child. Such a climax when it comes to expressing this belief or belief that a child is at risk in the family, that there is a beginning of pathology in the family, and it is necessary that the state should fight this in a drastic way, was in my opinion in Poland 2010, when on 10 June the amendment of the law on the prevention of violence in the family, which allowed the collection, in short, of children to parents without a court order, was adopted on the basis of an official decision. Here's my personal opinion. If I were to create a ranking of the worst laws that have been passed in Poland in the last 27 years, this law would, in my opinion, be a candidate for such nomination. It is worth recalling that, unfortunately, it was adopted in the Sejm almost unanimously, over political divisions. The pressure of this europeanness, which in the family saw a threat to the child, was so strong. Fortunately, this trend seems to have remained in Poland. And I consider this to be one of the great achievements of the last 2 years, reversed. Today we're leaving to get under Once again, maybe with some exaggeration. Just a pretext, on the basis of one piece of information, to take the children away from their parents. Of course, I would not want what I am saying to be understood as ignoring the problem of violence in the family. This problem has always existed, for many generations, until recently, was basically a taboo theme. It was thought that family matters should not be interfered with, this is an intimate sphere. One can speak of the undoubted benefits of the fact that, even in recent statements, Mr. Spokesman said that a certain permission, as if toleration to violence in the family, to harm children, to turn a blind eye to something like this has decreased. And that's a good thing, that's a good thing. But we may often be threatened with some watering out of a baby with a bath. I would say, "Today in a world where it's so easy to peek at others, it's so easy to look inside someone's private life, it's very easy to get a misconception or misconception about what's going on in a family." Well, let me be perfectly honest: I think that each of us, or almost every one of us, has in our experience, in our memory any moments or elements of our own family life that... if there was a camera there, if it were made public, then the authorities' decision to intervene on the basis of some such event recorded by the camera would be obvious and justified. It's true, isn't it? This is an intimate sphere, this is a sphere. really very delicate and you have to gently enter it, when it is really necessary. And you also have to ask such a question as I think, the key question that we often forget. And that is also my message to your spokesperson. I mean, honestly, what we really have to offer to children who are even hurt in families or are in families where, well, things don't happen the way we want them to. What do you really have to offer them, how much can you really improve their situation? Here I leave this question suspended, for reflection. Another question is what today is actually the main and most fundamental threat or danger that threatens our children. Is it really violence, or is it really a spanking? Because there's a distance from spanking to violence, too. By the way, I'd like to remind you here, maybe you should point out a little bit to your spokesperson, please don't be offended. That a few months ago there was a discussion in Poland about a spanking in which you were gracious to turn to the rector of the university... It was a sure thing to do with the professor. I take it as a certain unauthorised interference in the freedom of academic life. In the academic discussion you can raise various questions, various hypotheses, even controversial. State institutions in freedom, academic freedom should not, in my opinion, interfere. That's by the way. My point would be this: I do not ignore the problem of violence, but in my opinion this is not the main problem today, which should be addressed by a spokesperson of the rights of the child or by public authority at all. The Constitution says that the child is protected and that the child should be defended against violence, cruelty, exploitation at work... This is the last one fortunately in Poland, in Europe it is not a big problem. In many countries or in several places in the world, this is a problem. It's also about demoralization. Well, in my opinion, what threatens our children in the first place today is demoralization, that's freedom, lack of... The educational problem is that it is very difficult to shape the right moral attitudes in children and young people today. Besides, there is a constant empathy of messages that pervert this moral sensitivity. Internet, ease of access to pornography, inappropriate content, erotic advertising, saturated with content that disrupts the sensitivity of older people, let alone children... And finally, some loneliness that easily turns into some lack of roots, nihilism. In my opinion, the answer to this threat is primarily family, so a return to tradition, to the traditional role of family. The State can be, at most, a supporting institution here, a return to a simple principle of subsidiarity. In situations where the family fails, where it happens that it cannot be accepted, there is room for action by the state. All efforts should be directed primarily towards strengthening the family, because only in this beautiful, intimate space In which sometimes things also happen badly, sometimes things happen very bad... [[Minister...]] I'm almost done. Only in this space does a child have a chance, the best chance of not succumbing to this trend of demoralization, which today, in my opinion, is the biggest threat for children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was not by chance that I pointed out to your spokesperson whether we remembered that 20 years ago the Constitution was passed and that it raised the profile of the Ombudsman. She's on the constitutional level. To be honest, during that debate, 20 years ago, there were also those issues that you just spoke about, Senator Bobko. It has been wondered whether the creation of an office will serve to categorise something that is a community, which is a great empire, i.e. families, whether the office within its ambitions will not lead to its disintegration, and finally whether the state through the office will lead to a specific policy towards a family that should be indifferent to political matters. But these 20 years of the Ombudsman's institution's function, with the exception of one, confirmed the validity of the original assumptions. Even with this absoluteization of the family that I had the privilege of hearing from Senator Bobka, let's not hide that the family is giving the exam on a micro scale. Or maybe he's giving it up on a scale a little bit bigger than family, so on a scale extended by neighborhood or some other slightly larger community. But already on a macro scale, the family is unable to control the processes that are independent of it, and are burdened with it and unfortunately enter it with boots, to which it is unable to answer. I am thinking here of the process that I am dealing with and which is the subject of the Ombudsman's actions and concerns. I would like to stress: the particular concern It is about non-alination. We're not dealing with cases here anymore. We are dealing with mass phenomena involving hundreds of thousands of people. Every year in Poland 1/3 of children are the subject of tenders in civil courts, which is related to paternity, but mainly to the fact that the father pays child support. This is an epidemic. He can't respond to this country because it's been 10 years. He can't even, as we hear it, control the Ombudsman's institution. The second phenomenon is, of course, globalisation, which has created euro orphans and even more than euro orphans. And this situation also requires that the family has the support, the support of the state and, above all, the parliament. In any case, I believe that the report, which has not been protested in two committees, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, points to the need for this institution to function and to help it, so that there are fewer words such as this speech today: no, no, no. There is even a lack of response to the Ombudsman's speeches, which is extreme. I, too, believe that it is important to add to this catalogue expectations that the current government, as if it were facing, is not enough, because from this huge transfer, which is 500+, it has made part of a political action, so it has cut off all the interests of children or families that did not fit into the political formula. There's no denying that it's 500+. These are the issues that I consider to be the omission of maintenance cases. There are 300,000 cases where you are a substitute father. I don't even want to calculate these amounts anymore, but in addition to these 300 000, there are still 700 000 cases where maintenance processes are not being carried out or are being carried out in part, which reduces children Yeah, she's losing her kids. Around 25 billion PLN. Till 25 billion zlotys these kids don't get in their pockets. So that I thank the Ombudsman for having the courage to take some action together with the Ombudsman. I understand that you are unable to carry out this process alone. We declare on the Platform help in solving this problem regardless of how we are labeled. The second thing I notice is that there's concern... I'm talking about the basics, so maybe I'll go back to violence. Senator Bobko has started a debate on how far you and how far your family... But maybe you can convince the senator of a fact. The discussion about the case you were talking about is entitled, except there's still statistics. Maybe she's lying, but I think we're watching her with confidence, and this statistic doesn't talk about violence, for example. A spanking is a good thing, whether it's bad, or the state, punishing for it, doesn't go too far into the educational sphere, into the family empire. Well, this statistic says that this violence isn't that kind of thing, because it's only 20%. 80% violence is alcohol-induced violence, i.e. extreme cases in which everyone would probably commit to interference: not just the country's neighbour The viewer would morally commit himself to intervention. My list of negligence includes additional issues In addition to these maintenance measures, As an urgent effort in the field of health protection. Mr. Spokesman writes about dentistry. Also, unfortunately, I have no success here, although many years ago I raised this case. But yet, Mr. Spokesman, a civilizational disease: vision defects. More and more children, already children, not adults like us here, reach for the technical equipment of glasses. The glasses reduce the performance of the child. So it's about recognition. So I'm calling not only a dental review, but an overview of vision defects among children and adolescents. As used to be a man's calling card, then hearing when the radio appeared, so when the TV, cell phones, cinemas eyes are the primary contact with the world and allows or prevents its formation, learning. It is therefore so important that eyesight is particularly protected. It is expensive, even I have such suspicion that the lobby, I would say, technical, producers of glasses beats all those who should prevent eye defects. Next issue: disability. I ask the High House to have justice in this case. We requested that children affected by chronic diseases be exempted from the costs of medicines and technical measures. The committee chaired by Prof. Seweryński has done a lot to cover pensioners, pensioners, or actually persons over the age of seventy-five with this umbrella. Thank you. But I call for similar, symmetrical care, free medications to include at least children with disabilities There's no word for it. To a significant extent, that is to say, affected by chronic diseases. Such an institution is noticeable, but residual: this is the care allowance. But let's add that as a result, I'd say this 500+ machine got a lower rank. First of all, it's not valorized, and second of all, to the challenge of a disabled child... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...for chronic illness... [[...five seconds left.]] Five minutes? Thank you... [[Five seconds.]] Those watches... Drop your watches. [[It's been five seconds. Thank you very much, Senator, but I have to take care of my time...]] So you're writing down a marshal, as I understand it, an application to raise a nursing allowance. [[I'm writing it down.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u52	Thank you very much. Senator Wind. [[Bielan showed his claws.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! [[You, among other things.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today we are taking note of the Ombudsman's report for 2016. I would like to remind you that at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, we were also familiar with this information, and since there were two other committees mentioned, I recall this. Do we have the right to protest them? Mr. Senator asked such a question. Well, here are the procedural matters, that we are familiar with the report, and we do not accept them, as is the case with the report of the National Radio and Television Council, so there will be no resolutions on this matter. In fact, it's a thick document, there's a lot of things here, a lot of words. Of course, at the committee meeting we asked questions, the Ombudsman gave many explanations. Surely this is the great work of the whole team, and thanks are due for these efforts. I would like to thank Senator Bobka very much at this point, who has beautifully focused our attention on the most important things. It relieves me of repeating these most important things. I have no doubt that it is worth reminding you that this convention was taken from the Polish initiative. Poland not only submitted such an idea, but also developed a project. I think that all generations, governments and parliaments are identified with what is contained in it. However, these problems enshrined in the Constitution, which Senator Bobko spoke about, are also reflected in the documents, because Poland, when ratifying the Convention on the Rights of the Child, made its reservations, but also made declarations. Maybe I'll quote them because these are two sentences that show us where we are in an important way. The first is that Rzeczpospolita Polska considers that the child's exercise of his rights laid down in the Convention, in particular those laid down in Article. In accordance with the Polish customs and traditions concerning the place of the child in the family and outside the family, it is carried out with respect for parental authority. And the second declaration: "In relation to Article. Paragraph 24 2 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) f of the Convention The Republic of Poland considers that guidance for parents and upbringing in family planning should comply with the principles of morality. Of course, in recent years, not all of these declarations have been pleasing, but I have no doubt that this dilemma, or the family, or what the Office of the Ombudsman is dealing with, is a conclusive dilemma. He's conclusive. If we treat it so that the family is an entity, and the state, the institutions of the state are acting as an auxiliary, then this is an important complement. There are such cases as are mentioned in this report, which we are talking about and we know about, but there is no doubt that matter is extremely delicate. As we are analysing this document, I would like to refer very briefly to some of the elements contained in this document. This is above all a lack of protection of life; this thread repeats itself. The spokesperson today from this speaker said that Parliament's competence in this area is first-rate. Yeah, but there's still some kind of unsatisfiedness. As for this next case, this proverbial spanking, I have mixed feelings, I talked about it at the committee meeting. Every year there is a large part of this text on this subject. For some people it may even be a suggestion that the family of its essence is pathological. I think that this text is too extensive in this respect, it is unclear. For example, the title on page 542 of Annex 11 reads: A retreat from tradition? This does not create a good climate around the topic: spanking. Because the question is, who is this document addressed to? We know that it is not only for parliamentarians that he has a social dimension, so we would have to be tempted to be more precise, and this is the distinction: the subjectivity of the family and the subsidiarity of the state. On page 547 there is a diagram of which of these ways of dealing with a child can be used in your upbringing? and is there, for example. such a point: to prevent any pleasant activity. The reader doesn't know what it's like to ban a child's pleasure or activity, whether it's good or bad. 'Cause if all the others are negative, That's supposed to happen. Beating, using negative comparisons, epithets, pulling hair, ear... I must say that here, however, I would expect more precision in expressing my thoughts, because this document has quite an important role in the social dimension. Of course, there are environments everywhere looking for violence in the family. We had it on different sets, even in this room... Of course, we know that a spanking is a sign of a weakness, but when parents want to treat themselves ultimatically, to put themselves against a wall in this area, it may not be the best discussion. Of course, educational reflection is needed in this regard, but, as I say, a comment on these matters must be balanced, delicate and wise. Leaving it without comment is not good. I would like to stress that for me, the essentials, the very important... Of course, all individual cases are important. Mr Spokesperson has repeatedly stressed that every person, every child is very important But because of the effects of the general speech, they are super important. Mr. Spokesman has presented many of them here, but my unsatisfied, quite determined lack, lack simply, concerns... There are no general speeches on cyber threats. I have to say yes. In the Ombudsman's report for 2014, we had very extensive material on the attitudes of young people when it comes to online media and cyber threats. So I was convinced that in the years to come, I would say, the consummation of these conditions. Well, this is not in these general speeches, and it seems that the Ministry of Digitalization, and the Ministry of Education, and Home Affairs, and Science and Higher Education should be addressed by such general speeches, but also some reflections in this regard. So, Mr Ombudsperson, it may in the future spank half the text, and the resulting volume will be allocated to cyber threats cases. This topic appeared once, this is on page 185, but this is a completely different thread, also difficult notabene. This is almost 1.5 pages of text, which begins with the problem of suicide attempts of students in junior high. We talked about this at the committee meeting, and I don't want to develop this thread. Attempts of suicide and student suicides in middle school... It's a very sad thing. Here's a thread of cyber violence. There is a request from the Ombudsman to include these matters in the framework of pedagogical supervision. I understand there's going to be some information about what we've been able to do. But, as I say, this thread was kind of moved by the way. I listened attentively to President Trump's speech when he was in Poland at the monument of the insurgents. I must say that I am very pleased that the highest representative of the most modern state in the world spoke so beautifully about patriotism and family. For years we have been told in Poland that it is a pastime, that it is a dark place. I have to say, we have something to talk about. We have something to brag about. It's a continuous process, you have to take care of these things all the time. As far as cybersecurity opportunities are concerned, there are initiatives in relation to children and young people such as: Decalogue of Internet users or so-called. Digital detoxification. We've even been discussing in the last two weeks... [[Mr. Senator...]] That's it? [[That's it.]] The last three sentences, if you please. A lot of specific problems like picking up kids... By the way, the subject was raised. There are also some very lapidary shortcuts here, such as page 477. Hate speech. In the future, I'd like to ask for maybe a three-tasking, wider... Because there's one sentence. To conclude, I wish the Ombudsman and the whole team that the next year should be well used to address these new, difficult and very important challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u54	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, during the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, we held a long discussion. I was a part of it, too. I do not want to repeat myself too much here, but I would like to present to you a few important issues or questions, in my opinion. I'm gonna start with the first signal, 'cause everything's gonna be just a signal. This will in fact be such an evaluation question, which I also asked during the committee's deliberations, i.e. the question of the effectiveness of your actions. I mean the answer to the question of how much bureaucracy and written paper are in the office, and how much is what each of us would like, i.e. matters brought to the very end, which requires people and resources. It's not a question that has a blade pointing towards you or people working with you. That's an objective question. Because you can intervene very deeply, which requires constant monitoring and being, but you can also turn it all into bureaucracy. This is, in my opinion, a fundamental question for your office. As you can see, as best-knowing of this, I would say the reality of my own competences, the dilemma of choosing between bureaucracy and the real effectiveness that requires deep entry into a particular particular case that you are dealing with? There are 24,000 family cases. How do I put this number to the depths? From my perspective, the senator, it seems to me that it is unbelievable that you are effective. This is a fundamental question, such an evaluation question, which could help to resolve this dilemma. There is also a second fundamental question here. We're actually talking about it. Namely, we discussed on the committee... There was also the voice of my previous speaker, Prof. Bobka, about violence and what the Ombudsman really wants to say through these studies. The Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child is an office that has been somewhat, and I apologize for such a shortcut of thought, called to investigate pathology. I mean, he goes where he sees pathology. The word "patology" is not a meaningless word, but a word that stigmatizes the reality in which the spokesman enters. Thus, in order to understand the pathology involved, the spokesperson of the rights of the child should have a set of positive values that create boundaries in which the articulation of pathology actually exists. The problem of violence we're talking about here is, in fact, the problem... In your statements, your unambiguous declarations lack a positive message, one that would say that, in fact, the process of raising children and young people and the process of social education of the family or other actors dealing with children should go in the direction which is obvious to me, that is, education in virtues, or ability to do good. This is your job. This is the direction, this system of values that you should maintain, because this is about the sense of your office. You should write this out loud and unambiguously. I was very happy because your answers to the questions were very often going in this direction. This puts you in the line of people who are virtuous, of course not only theological, but also in the context of these four most important virtues: valor, moderation, justice and discretion. You answered, of course, that you are opposed to killing children for eugenic reasons, and that is, as we know, de facto over 90%. cases under the current Anti-Abortion Act. You also wrote something de facto very good and wise in this document, except it's somewhere on the margins. I mentioned that during our committee meeting. Well, you've come to the conclusion that it's part of this broad-based prevention. In a few moments, I will go to the word "prophylaxis" and also to the women expecting children and women who may be exposed to HIV, and therefore may put the unborn child at risk. This child can be protected from this legacy of undesirable behavior, because this is generally the case for pathological environments, not for all mothers carrying a child under the heart. That's what you're talking about, in fact, even though you're not talking about it directly. And that is why I would strongly encourage you to speak directly in 2017 about this positive message, which may be in your competence, provided that you give these powers to yourself. And you should give it to yourself so that this pathology is clearly described from the point of view of clear interpretation. There will be no questions about even the violence mentioned. And in the end, I'm going to talk about what we've already talked about. This violence, as it turns out in practice This is the result of these statistical records, to a large extent, as the professor who was present at the meeting of our committee admitted, is de facto the situation in which the child is outside the biological family, apart from the natural family. What does that mean? It means that the environment, as we all know very well, is the environment of love. The environment of love is the family environment. And all kinds of imperfections or pathology Of course, the words I used here aren't random, because they differentiate these behaviors. They depend to a large extent on how deep the love of the family's educational process is. Isn't that a job for the Ombudsman in building a positive message to society? Let us protect the family, protect love in the family and not stigmatize families for spanking, which is, of course, in the educational process, as Prof. Wind said, a weakness that parents often fail to master, because there is another good that is much more important. That's good. p.o.b. child safety, which we all know very well. If we as parents narrow our upbringing to whether to spank or not, because there is a spokesperson for the rights of the child, then we will be stupid and the child will therefore be harmed by our stupidity. You can't leave us as a spokesman with this definition of our role as educators, but you have to give us a positive message. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, especially since you fit perfectly in time. [[I promised you five minutes.]] [[You're on a roll.]] Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll try to talk for less than 10 minutes, because that's the waiting room. I would therefore like to mention one specific problem and the other concerning the work and tasks of the institutions. This specific problem I have chosen is the problem that we must pay attention to as the High Chamber, but this also applies to the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, to the issue of the single raising of children and to the fact that the basic right of the child to be raised by both parents is increasingly violated. On the one hand, we feel that way. Also on the basis of this document The fact that we are increasingly protecting children's rights, and on the other hand we see social processes, is that in recent years about 65 thousand divorces, i.e. that about 130 thousand people are divorced, and that means that about 170 000 children are more alone each year. I'm not talking about informal relationships here either, because then that number would increase. It shows how dangerous we are. So that's the problem of breaking the rights of children who have the right to be raised by both parents. And it's not like there's nothing you can do about it. The modern country, Norway, has introduced a very simple solution. This is because those who have minor children and are getting divorced have to take a course and learn from a psychologist and sociologist on this course, the effects of divorce, present and future divorces on the child, the effects of parents getting divorced. And thanks to that knowledge, many parents who love their children give up their divorce. Parents often do not know what will be present for their children and the further consequences of their separation. We have poor marital and family counseling, and we don't have much use for marriage therapy because it's expensive. But there are many solutions. Mediation can be disseminated. Mediation, as the judges who work divorce cases say, should be mandatory. And it's time for projects with these kinds of solutions to be created. Switzerland on huge billboards promotes a full and lasting marriage as a safeguard of children's welfare as a protection of children's rights. That is the specific problem, Mr. Ombudsman. But I also ask the High House to do much about it without ordering it, because no one wants it, but by launching actions that will encourage children to feel that they are being raised and cared for by both parents. And problem two, the problem of how he works... Maybe it's not about how the office works, but about this problem: is the concept of the office of the Ombudsman in Poland correct? Well, you said And that's the truth. In Poland, the Ombudsman has an extremely broad competence compared to the powers of the Ombudsman in other countries. The question is, is this okay? Here I refer a little to the speech, among others. Mr. Zarin, who spoke of a huge number of cases, as you said, solved by the office. That's 50,000 cases, there's been a huge increase in the last few years. If we go in this direction, it will be necessary to create the voivodship troops that the Ombudsman has. Is this the right direction? Well, I am in favour of the Ombudsman dealing with the sphere you were talking about, i.e. general speeches, project preparation, signaling important projects, analysis of the situation, but I am also in favour of the Ombudsman not turning into an office of social assistance, an intervention office, an office to solve individual problems. This is not, in my opinion, the right role for the Ombudsman in a situation where there are institutions that deal with such matters. Well, it's not appropriate, although it's acceptable... You're doing it legally, and that's the expectation... I realize that it's impressive how you talk about tens of thousands of cases that are being taken, but it's not appropriate that you duplicate certain actions. Well, you control institutions that are subject to education, and we are aware that there is also a curator of education, there are visitors to education and there is a whole control structure, and at the end there is a minister of education. You draw attention to what was the ruling of the court, what was the action of the court, and yet we realize that this is sooner or at some time possible to be audited, competent and competent, by the visiting officer of the district court and by the curator of the district court, who are competent, competent, who are in every district court, and at the end, if necessary, you can intervene with the Minister of Justice, who will take various actions. In such a situation, when in individual resorts Whether in the family, work and social policy to which social assistance is subject, or in the justice department to which the whole set of child care cases is subject, as well as foster care There is no need for such questions to be dealt with within structures that already exist to be replicated by the Ombudsman. So, to conclude, because I promised that my speech would be short, I would ask the High House, but also the Ombudsman for the rights of the child, to consider whether the concept of expanding and intervening on individual issues, giving a telephone number to which any child can call, and to equip any child who may call the Ombudsman for the rights of the child... Is that right? I don't want to limit the possibilities of a child or a parent to intervene, but it's not appropriate for this office. We have very wide-ranging social assistance. We have excessive foster care, which you have admitted. We have very extensive support structures at local and voivodship level. In my opinion, the Ombudsman's office should be involved in signalling important problems, designing certain changes, general speeches, not conducting or controlling individual cases. Yes, as long as they serve as an analysis to serve these general speeches or draft laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Spokesman! I'll cut you short, 'cause it's late... I would like to thank the Ombudsman for his comments on the legal issues relating to the situation of the child, in particular the shortcomings arising from the impossibility of bringing a cassation complaint in respect of judgments given under the Hague Convention on Civil Aspects of Child Abduction, or the rigour of immediate enforceability in such judgments. Indeed, this is a very bumpy problem. What can I certify as a multi-annual practice in the application of the law And it's about time this was taken care of to change the civil procedure. Besides, I am speaking in this House of the fact that the most important thing for the functioning of the justice system is the procedures that we have, because the proper procedures guarantee the correct settlement of the case. Unfortunately, our procedures have been shaped so far with regard to the cassation complaint that in the most vital cases this complaint is not available. I've mentioned that before, for example. in matters relating to the eviction from the premises, which is what is most important to the family, the roof over the head... Well, now the issue that you are talking about is to transfer the child abroad, because it was allegedly abducted and a court order was issued to send the child back to the place where it came from. These are very dramatic situations concerning a living man, a little child who has feelings that have reactions, attachments, etc. And so is this aspect. I would like to thank the Ombudsman for pointing this out about our incorrect practice of law, contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. Children who have sufficient insight into where they want to be placed in the event of divorce or parental separation are not heard in matters concerning children. Yet, for a child to be heard, this is an essential element of the humane exercise of judicial authority in relation to a weak being as weak as the child is. Unfortunately, our practice is very often that this hearing is lacking. That's why thank you so much. I hope that we, as the Senate, will benefit from these comments. whether it is under some legislative initiative that we will take to prevent these shortcomings or on another path. Because it is known that both the courts and the Ombudsman comply with the applicable law and have their hands bound if this law does not allow them to act more effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. You, too, have kept your word that you will speak briefly, and thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the child's spokesperson, Mr Marek Michalak, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? Yes? You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u61	I don't think it would have been elegant if I hadn't said it, but it would have been. really very, very briefly. Thank you very much for the opportunity to hold today's debate on the rights of the child. She is very needed, and the Ombudsman's reporting time is a good time for this. I have noted here both suggestions from the questions and subsequent speeches by the senators. There are topics that talk about the structure, the activities of institutions, and the specific issues that are being taken. As I said before, in some cases we absolutely agree, there are differences of opinion in some cases, but this is also the case in the debate and it is kind of natural. Thank you very much for an in-depth analysis of this document, which we have worked very carefully on. You have noticed that this is not done to send it, but this is an in-depth analysis of the situation of children in Poland, and this is presented to reflect on what we can do even better, more And together. The declaration that came out of many mouths, said here, is also very upbuilding to me, because regardless of which side and however we approach this subject, it is about the child, the specific Jasi or the particular Gretel, that she should not suffer, that she should be happy to have access to education, so that she would not be hungry, etc. So if we can achieve this in these individual cases and then fully secure it, this will be achieved. Thank you very much from this place, senator and senator, for the opportunity to spend these important and pleasant moments with you today. Let me also say thank you to my colleagues here, because the spokesperson is not alone, and if it weren't for their daily work... There are representatives of individual departments here today, directors, but I also want this to go down, to each and every one of them together. Thanks for all the good work done for Polish children. I am convinced from the analysis of many repercussions of these actions of the Ombudsman that many children, and this counted not in hundreds, and in thousands, are living better thanks to this work. Happy birthday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u62	I, too, thank the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, Mr. Mark Michalak, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of the activities of the Ombudsman for 2016 together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. I'm ordering a recess until 12:30. After the break, the vote will take place. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 58 to 12 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u63	I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the seat between the Republic of Poland and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex), signed in Warsaw on 9 March 2017. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print No 571 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 80 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on seat between the Republic of Poland and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex), signed in Warsaw on 9 March 2017. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate printing No 572 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments, while a minority of the committees have submitted proposals... a proposal for rejection of the law and... aha, that is, the proposals, because of the rejection of the law and the amendment of the bill of the Senate Print No 568 A. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We are voting on the request of minorities of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 27 against, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the rejection of the proposal to reject the Act, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment to adopt the Act without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] 87 senators voted, 54 votes against, 30 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Technical Dosor. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. This is senate print number 569 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Technical Dosor. We return to the discussion of item five of the agenda: the National Property Resources Act. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments, while a minority of the committees have submitted a proposal to reject this law. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We are voting on a minority proposal from the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 26 votes against, 58 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the rejection of the proposal to reject the Act, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure to adopt the Act without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 58 votes against, 25 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the National Property Resources Act. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for the adoption of this law without amendments of the Senate printing No 570 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on amending the Act on Tax Administration, the Law on Public Finance and the Law on National Tax Administration. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate printing No 573 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 84 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law, the Law on Public Finance and the Law on National Tax Administration. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive with regard to enforcement requirements and laying down detailed rules for directives on the posting of drivers in the road transport sector. I would like to remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft opinion was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt the draft opinion contained in print No 576 S. We are voting on the draft opinion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 86 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted an opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive with regard to enforcement requirements and laying down detailed rules for directives on the posting of drivers in the road transport sector. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 40th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the order of the next meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The object of the statement may be... Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. The sitting isn't over. If anyone wants to talk, let them do it outside the O.R. Excuse me. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? [[I was saved.]] [[Yes. I was also enrolled, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: I was also written down.]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Jan Filip Libicki. [[I'm here.]] Then Senator Antoni Szymanski and Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. I don't know if anybody else wants to add up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me make two senator statements today, but I'll fit in five minutes. The first statement is addressed to the Minister of Development and Finance, Mr. Mateusz Morawiecki. At the last Senate meeting, we discussed the employment promotion law and the labour market institutions. During the discussion, both at the meeting of the committee that dealt with the law and during the plenary session, Minister Marcin Zielenecki representing the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy spoke about the work being done to ensure that those who work in Poland as economic immigrants And this mainly applies to immigrants from Ukraine... The point is that legal solutions can be applied so that there is no longer a problem that many employers often have, because they are short-term workers and if there is a better offer somewhere, they leave work very quickly, having already gained some experience with one employer. Minister Zieleniacki talked about the work being done at the Ministry of Development to somehow get these workers I don't know if it's a good term to tie to an employer so that they just work with one employer for a long time. Minister Zielenecki spoke of this. Asked by me, he said that such work was carried out by Minister Kwieciński in the Ministry of Development. I would therefore like to ask the Ministry of Development and Prime Minister Morawiecki exactly what these are, what they are, what solutions will be adopted when they are presented to the Senate and when they are to be implemented. This is my first statement. The second statement concerns a minor issue, but maybe relevant to people with disabilities. Namely, I had the opportunity to use recently the gas station of Orlen, which was very well adapted to the needs of people with disabilities. There was a parking spot, there was a custom toilet. Unfortunately, with regard to the toilet, there was no information that such a toilet was there, and it was in such a place that it could not be found naturally. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because it may be that these stations are simply built according to one formula, one model and it may be worth trying to inform them that the availability of this station for people with disabilities is clearly presented to them. This particular situation which happened to me took place at station 4038 in Osiecza First near Rzgow. I don't know. I think the staff of the Senate will help. Whether my statement should be addressed to the Minister of Development, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, who is the minister responsible for PKN Orlen, or to the Minister of Energy, Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski. I don't know which one of the ministers is right, but I think our services will settle this. I would like to say once again that my statement is not, for God's sake, some pretension, but it is only about paying attention to some facilitation which will certainly make it easier for people with disabilities, as well as PKN Orlen's concern will make it easier to care for the needs of its disabled customers. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. And I'll ask Senator Anthony Szymanski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! Gentlemen of the Senators! The Senate closes its last session before vacation, time of rest, integration, recovery of physical forces and recovery of mental energy. We usually wish good weather before we leave. However, our well-being and Polish families depend not only on the aura, but also on the climate of public debate. Referring to my previous statement on the Hooligan incident in Radom, I would like once again to address the political environment, opinion leaders and media with a call for reflection on the climate of the public debate. Such events as the Radom beating mentioned above are the tip of the iceberg, which consists of a multiple devastation of political customs. It was caused by the toxic language and bad emotions present in the public debate. The divisions caused by the violent political dispute were too deep. Not only political environments, but also families, offices, workplaces, universities, art and entertainment are already shared. Harmful tension causes that it is often difficult for Poles to discuss matters of social importance. Therefore, we often make them taboos and quickly change the subject during social gatherings, just in case. Some names or passwords cause a lot of reflexes to anger, rage, or ridicule, not because they deserve it at a given time, but because we think badly of them. We label public people, politicians, journalists, commentators, doctors, lawyers, scientists, artists, by placing them on one side or on the other side of the barricade, because it makes it easier to think on your own and makes it easy to label: your own or an alien. This atavistic tribal thinking weakens our sensitivity, dulls our intelligence, limits our creativity. We give up our own reflection to repeat the slogans we hear. We evaluate not what is proposed, but who is proposed, and we depend on support. We miss valuable ideas for the country, not giving them the chance to exist just because they come from the wrong source in our opinion. We waste valuable intellectual resources, social energy and citizens' enthusiasm. What is the result of being in the enchanted circle of mutual degradation? We all pay for this, both those in power and those in opposition. Our authority in society is weakening. The result may be anarchic behaviour of citizens, characterised by disregard for not so much specific public persons as power at all. Let us not want to allow confidence in the state's institutions and respect for its legal organs to weaken because of our cravings. Let us try to reduce the level of noise or media chatter around endless, useless arguments and unnecessary incidents. Let us also take a distance ourselves, re-examine the priorities and look for a new style of discussion in public space. I believe that our environment will have enough imagination and intelligence to do that. For our common good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u67	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today one of the newspapers revealed radio correspondence recordings, which clearly indicates that on 21 July, when here, in the Senate, we discussed the Law on the Supreme Court brought by PiS, and outside there was a huge, multi-thousandth demonstration, the surveillance of Mr Ryszard Petru and two demonstrators Wojciech Kinasiewicz and Tadeusz Jakrzewski was undertaken. All of them participated in this demonstration. Based on the transcript, I'm guessing the police have been following the civilian police. So I ask the Minister: who gave the tracking order and did this only apply to these people? That's one thing. Second, did you know that? Third, on what legal basis? Fourthly, what consequences will be drawn to those who have done so? The police are in protective custody, securing the demonstration, securing the Sejm and the Senate. But he doesn't have the right to do that kind of thing. Minister, I expect an answer in a short time. This is a very shocking matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo. My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Beata Szydło. Dear Prime Minister, On these days a year has passed since the adoption by the Sejm and the Senate and the signature by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Act on Retail Tax. This tax was intended to eliminate the harmful to the Polish state and shocking public opinion of the phenomenon of tax avoidance by foreign trade networks, large-area shops. Unfortunately, these regulations are dead. As soon as the law entered into force, the collection of this tax was suspended by the Minister of Finance. This took place after the European Commission opened an in-depth investigation into this tax. The first decision in this case was already issued by the Commission in September 2016, at the same time requiring Poland to suspend the application of the tax until its analysis by the Commission has been completed. The final decision was issued by the European Commission a month ago. Brussels found that the Polish retail tax infringes EU State aid rules. The main charge is the progressive rate of tax based on the volume of revenue which, in the opinion of the committee, favours companies with lower revenues and therefore constitutes State aid within the meaning of European Union rules. In the Commission's view, Poland did not demonstrate that progressive tax rates were justified by the objective of retail sales tax in terms of revenue increases or that companies at a higher rate would be more able to pay. As a result, the decision requires Poland to eliminate unfair discrimination against companies resulting from the retail tax rules and restore equal treatment on the market. Although Poland made a complaint to the Court of Justice in December 2016 against the first decision of the European Commission, the mills of justice are slowly grinding, especially European justice, and the chance of winning seems increasingly illusory. The effect is that the facts have not changed either by iota, according to the statement that much needs to be changed so that nothing changes. In every major city, a river of gold flows through large-area shops, from which the state does not effectively charge any tax. Unfortunately, time works against us. Specific money, e.g. to social programmes initiated by the government, are transferred abroad in the majesty of law. The Polish state is also losing its prestige. It cannot effectively enforce the income it owes it. I therefore have the following questions for the Prime Minister. Firstly, doesn't the Prime Minister have the impression that the entire retail tax and subsequent defence action is of an apparent nature, more media-oriented than the actual budgetary benefits? After all, the average Polish citizen sees strenuous efforts of the Polish government and parliament, and all the blame for their lack of effect falls on the European Union. In particular, this may be demonstrated by the following convergence of dates. The draft law was submitted on 15 June 2016, but already on 4 July the European Commission issued a decision challenging a very similar Hungarian progressive tax based on revenue in the retail sector. The second reading of our law, when the government as the author of the project could still freely modify it, also on the issue of progression, took place the day later, on July 5th. I am no longer saying that the necessary amendments could also have been introduced at the Senate meeting on 22 July. Question two. Why was it so easy for Brussels to agree to stop tax collection just after the first European Commission decision of September 2016, which was not binding? After all, the law, including European law, does not work backwards. Additional question. In our complaint to the Court of Justice, did we demand that the Commission compensate us for the tax revenue lost so far under its request? And the third, last and most important question. When and how will the government decide to introduce a general commercial tax, a simple, uniform rate, without any exemptions, just a turnover tax? It will also be paid by our smaller merchants, but above all by foreign large-area shops, and the latter so far pay nothing or almost nothing. In this way, we will restore balance in this industry, increase the revenue of the state, but above all we will restore the seriousness and effectiveness of the state in the eyes of its citizens and the international opinion. I'd like to express my respects. Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-27-senat-46-2.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. There are no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the forty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. Forty-sixth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 12 minutes 59]]
