ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Catherine Osos, Marcin Duszek, Krystian Jarubas and Arthur Sobonia as the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Marcin Duszek and Mr Artur Soboń. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marcin Duszek and Krystian Jarubas. I consider the minutes of the 39th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on Scientific Degrees and Titles and on Degrees and Titles in Arts and Certain Other Acts, - amending the Postal Law Act, - about fighting doping in sports. The reports shall be printed in no 1472, 1471 and 1474 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft law on claims for damages caused by the infringement of competition law. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Health Commission has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on committee reports: - the draft law on the termination of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sports events, and in particular football matches, - on the draft law on ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and handling during football and other sporting events. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Bureau of the Sejm informs that at the present meeting of the Sejm information on the restructuring of hard coal mining will be considered, which was presented by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Foreign Affairs - hour 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12, - Legal notice - hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Infrastructure - hour 13.30, - Culture and Media - hour 13.30, - to Energy and Treasury together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 14, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 15, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 3.30 p.m., - Culture and Media - hour 3.30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 16, - Economy and Development - h.m. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 17, - Health-- hour. 17, - Infrastructure - hour 5:15 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 5:30 p.m., - Public Finances together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 18, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 18. In addition, the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 11.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Chemical Industry - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: construction of bypasses and alternative roads near motorways A1 and DK1 - h. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Digitalization, Innovation, IT and High-Tech - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 18. The Parliamentary Group for the Development of Tourism and Promotion of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Region invites you to the opening of the exhibition entitled: The natural inspirations of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region in the lens - h. 12 in the lobby in front of the conference room in the new House of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u3	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Science Degrees and Titles and on Degrees and Titles in Arts and some other Acts (Prints No. 1287 and 1472). I ask Mr Vladimir Bernacki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on printing No 1472 - a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on amending the Law on Scientific Degrees and Titles, and on degrees and titles in the field of art and certain other laws, print No 1287. The Sejm at its 36th meeting on 22 February 2017 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. The Education, Science and Youth Committee, after considering this draft law at its meetings on 7 and 8 March and 7 April 2017, invites the High Sejm to adopt a draft law. The Commission shall act in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit minority applications at the request of the applicant. These minority proposals were submitted by the Modern Club, by Mrs Joanna Schmidt. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government project, which entered the committee, was worked not only within the committee, but also by the special subcommittee appointed to consider the project. Firstly, amendments were made to the government project to ensure that only those with a doctor's degree could become an auxiliary promoter. Secondly, the members of the committee, the committees - and the subcommittee, and the committee - considered that, as regards the possibility of hiring an independent person with a doctoral degree as an employee, a sufficient solution was the current article. 21a and it is therefore unnecessary to introduce an Article. 21a. The subcommittee and the committee also considered that the procedure for implementing the so-called "communication'. the implementation doctorate should not be a completely separate path of acquiring a doctoral degree in terms of whether it is applied sciences or social sciences, and that this path should be the path already described in law, in the Law on Higher Education. On my way back to the point, once again, the committee is asking the High House to adopt a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Bravo!]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u5	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice by Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law amending the Law on Scientific Degrees and Titles and on Degrees and Titles in Art and some other laws, print No 1287. The project deals with the regulation of the academic career path based on conducting research aimed at applying their results in the economic or social sphere. The current level of cooperation between science and business sectors in Poland is unsatisfactory. The share of R &amp; D expenditure in GDP is among the lowest in Europe. In analysing the cause of this situation, one of the factors limiting the scope of cooperation between the scientific community and the socio-economic environment is the lack of clearly defined opportunities for the development of academic careers on the basis of achievements in the implementation work. At the moment, there are no clear principles for the development of scientific careers based on implementation and development work in the socio-economic environment. This also reduces the interest of the scientific community in implementation work. The key solution contained in the project is the establishment of an implementation doctorate providing incentives to stimulate cooperation between the scientific community and the socio-economic environment. It should be noted that implementation PhDs have been successfully implemented in other Member States of the European Union for many years, including. in Denmark, France, Germany and recently also at European Union level. The new career path designed in the Act will enable you to gain a doctoral degree based on the achievements achieved in the implementation work. It is assumed that such career opportunities will provide incentives for those planning an academic career to focus it on the implementation of research results. The establishment of the implementation doctorate will provide additional incentives for young researchers to develop their careers on the basis of implementation activities. Increased interest in implementation works will translate into increased cooperation between scientific units and entities operating in their socio-economic environment, and this in turn will result in an increase in the innovation of the Polish economy and an improvement in the quality of life of society. The programme provides for the funding of costs related to doctoral studies in which training takes place in cooperation with the socio-economic environment, including the entrepreneur or other entity concerned by the specific area of research. The introduction of this needed and long-awaited solution in Poland, firstly, will contribute to the development of contacts between the scientific unit and the socio-economic environment, secondly, will help to intensify research with commercial potential and, thirdly, will enable the future scientist to gain experience in the field of research and development. In view of the importance and importance of the project, it has been subjected to a thorough work of the Emergency Sub-Committee, giving it the opportunity to have an additional meeting with the higher education community, the rectors and trade union representatives and to take into account further votes and comments, which is a domain of the work of Law and Justice. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u7	Thank you very much, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Vladimir Nykiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position on the Law amending the Law on Scientific Degrees and Titles and on Degrees and Titles in Arts and on Certain Other Acts, Print Nos 1287 and 1472. I will focus on a few points that should be raised when discussing this project. The idea of a PhD because of the need to step up cooperation between young university graduates and universities themselves with the economy, or more broadly, with the socio-economic environment, as well as the need to stimulate implementation processes deserves acceptance. However, it must be stressed that he has met with criticism in various scientific communities, and this is also the criticism we find in opinions for the project. A negative assessment was given the possibility of obtaining rights equivalent to those of a habilitated doctor. It is therefore good that these regulations have been removed from the project as a result of the work of the committee. The solution for setting up the Chair of the Central Commission for Grades and Titles, according to which the Prime Minister appoints a chairman from among all the members of the committee, and not, as is currently the case, from two members appointed by the committee itself, deserves a strong negative assessment. The solution proposed in the project weakens the position of CK and strengthens the position of Prime Minister, which is unjustified. Furthermore, it must be stressed that the changes are to be made when the CK elections are over, that elections have taken place in accordance with the current rules and its rules are being changed during this procedure. Of course, the issue of the substance of this change is more important, because it means that the Prime Minister or the administration does not trust the scientific community. It means that the scientific community will no longer have an impact on the appointment of the CK president, and this, of course, must be assessed decisively. Opinions accompanying the project are negative. In addition, the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Gowin were sent an open letter expressing their outrage and evaluating these changes strongly, with a very strong emphasis on the criticism of these changes relating to the appointment of the CK President. Here we have just heard that the domain of the PiS is to meet these needs. So what I'm saying is that when I saw this letter open, a few days before Christmas, it was signed by over 1,300 scientists. I am no longer talking about the negative opinions that accompany the project itself. The Minister, when I asked him what could be the reason for such a change, i.e. the appointment of a chairman from among the whole group, because for me it is a lack of trust in the environment, he said that it increases flexibility. I'm sorry. I'm not commenting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I said. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u9	I ask Mr Józef Brynkus to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the government's draft law amending the Law on Scientific Degrees and Science title, contained in print no. 1287. In the original government project, major changes were made during the work of the subcommittee and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. These changes refer to the procedure of habilitation, speaking in simplification, implementation and promotional support in the doctoral tract. Both of these cases were removed from the bill. I understand you, Professor Włodzimierz Bernacki, who emphasizes the role of the PiS in this area. I value him for many accomplishments, but I remind you that it was from this speaker that the most critical remarks came to the previous draft law on degrees, expressed by the representative of Kukiz.15. We are aware that arithmetic is in favour of the PiS club and that without its representatives' understanding the importance of the comments expressed would not change anything. We also believe that this will also be the case when we talk about systemic regulation of higher education matters, because it will certainly benefit smaller academic and urban centres in Poland, as all Members should consider. The proposed law in the proposed form is more valid, although as Kukiz,15 we cannot accept the powers left in it of the President of the Council of Ministers to elect the chairman of the Central Committee on Scientific Degrees. The project regulates the process of the academic career path to the degree of doctorate based on conducting research aimed at the practical application of them. It also establishes a programme under the heading "Mr. Implementation doctorate. It will allow the funding of costs related to scientific activities carried out in cooperation with the socio-economic environment, including the entrepreneur or other entity interested in a specific area of research, which will result in a PhD in implementation. Although this is not written directly in the project, it appears from the explanation of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education that basically the implementation doctorate can be carried out in respect of any area of public life. This means that representatives of social sciences, pedagogical sciences or humanities will also be able to apply for it. However, the problem is that this situation is reflected in the grants granted by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education to scholarships, which will depend on who will decide on the terms of the competition for this type of scholarship - in the practice of ministerial officials. Unfortunately, this situation raises some concerns, especially when consideration is given to the statement made by the Ministry's representative during the subcommittee's deliberations in which the contested law was examined. He said that the purpose of the implementation habilitation is to get people from abroad who can be promoters for implementation PhDs, because there are no such people in Poland. Although, fortunately, the provisions on obtaining allowances equivalent to habilitation have been removed, the attitude of the Ministry's representative raises some concerns about the transparency of the rules for granting scholarships from the point of view of accessibility for all fields of science. There is concern that certain areas may be marginalised. However, bearing in mind the obvious benefits for Polish science and society resulting from the provisions of the contested law, although its life will probably be short, because work is underway on the systemic regulation of the functioning of higher education, the Poselski Kukiz Club15 is in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u11	Thank you. And Mrs Joanna Schmidt Please take the floor, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Modern Club on amending the Law on Scientific Degrees and Titles and on Degrees and Titles in Art and some other Acts. First of all, I would like to point out that the project raises critical opinions in the worst case and, at best, mixed opinions of the scientific community. And so we can hear that: the ministry threw in a hot potato that no one could normally swallow, and then half of it is cut and thrown in the hope that the remaining half will be swallowed; thanks to the changes introduced, it will be such a view of this law that the wolf is full and the sheep is whole. There are also voices suggesting that the idea of the implementation doctorate in the PiS version may include PhDs for Misiewicz, the most satisfied of which will be a university in Toruń. All these opinions, despite the critical sound, are consistent with one thing: the degree of implementation and development of innovative research methods in agreement with representatives of other sciences is low and often considered unnecessary. A situation in which scientific independence was achieved in Poland even recently at the age of 46, witnessing numerous pathologies in student-master or superior relations, requires a search for new solutions. However, let us remember that failing solutions instead of achieving the intended goal can cause the baby to be poured out with a bath. Our doubts during the first reading of the project aroused - I would remind you - the introduction of two definitions of a supporting promoter in the doctoral course and the lack of clarity of concepts used there, specifying the required achievements or the definition of the locality of scientific merit, the possibility of one person giving rights equivalent to those resulting from the possession of a degree of scientific doctor habilitated. Some of these provisions have already been deleted from the draft amendment, which should be considered as positive, although not sufficient. However, the modern amendments tabled as a minority request concern a change in the wording of the Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 laws. The applicant proposes that the Prime Minister appoint the Chair of the Central Commission for Grades and Titles from among all its members, giving the Head of Government full freedom to elect its Chair. The Ministry, in turn, considers the wording of the Article to be a lack of such freedom. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. I would like to remind you that at that time the Prime Minister appointed the chairman of the committee from among the two candidates submitted by the committee of its members. I will quote the amendment proposed by the Modern Club: the chairman of the Central Commission shall be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers from two candidates submitted by the Central Committee of its members within 30 days of the date of submission of the nominations. So here we go. also a time limit for the selection of a member of the committee - 30 days. I will ask the question: What prevents the chairman of the committee from being elected since January - 3.5 months ago? I would like to remind you that the committee has been paralyzed for several months and is not functioning because the Prime Minister has not identified this chair from among the committee candidates. This solution should be seen as a step towards centralising the management of Polish science around one decision-making centre. To date, the Prime Minister's designation of two candidates as president was a safety valve, because the Prime Minister's influence on the functioning of the committee was not small. I would also like to point out that the way in which the chairman of the central committee is elected so far requires significant clarification. To date, the Act has not embarrassed the Head of Government as to the time in which he had to decide on the President's person. Thus, at the beginning of 2017, Prime Minister Beata Szydło did not appoint a chairman from among the candidates selected from the central committee. The High Seym, as a modern one, we have listened to the opinion of representatives of the scientific community when we examine this project. We have really listened to these opinions, also on the committee. They do not give us the mandate to unconditionally support the proposed amendment. Considering that, the Modern Club will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u13	Mr Krystian Jarubas, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u14	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on Science Degrees and Titles and on the degrees and title in the field of art and on certain other laws, prints Nos 1287 and 1472. Ladies and gentlemen! The government's draft amendment to the Law on Science Degrees and Science Titles and on Art Degrees and Titles and Some Other Acts came back to us from committee and doubts remained. The proposed law is intended to create new opportunities, new career paths for research. Sounds like fun. On the basis of this law, scientists will be able to do research PhDs instead of habilitation, which will speed up the career path. We also know that the official idea is to create a bridge between business and science. Some say it's supposed to be a kind of transfer of knowledge to business. As we know, so far the doctoral dissertation must have been a new, original solution to some scientific problem. This is to change, to be dealt with more widely, because the hearing could also be an original, innovative solution for the application of own research results in the economic sphere. It's an interesting concept, because the theory is joined by practice. At the same time, the legislation still requires theoretical knowledge and the ability to carry out scientific work on its own. The shadow of the main objectives of the project raises doubts as to whether the change proposed by the government should balance the doctorate of research with habilitation. Many scientists fear that these changes can unexpectedly give rise to pathology regarding the feasibility of decisions relating to the granting of a PhD in implementation. The purpose of the bill is also the so-called. promotion grants granted discretionaryly. Promotors grant them to their wards. Wouldn't that be a pretext for creating a specific feudal system among scientists, including financial dependence? Political sympathies could also be involved. Unfortunately, we believe that this is a real threat to the project. If such a system were also to sneak into political premises, then it could mean promoting only those scientists who, as they say, follow the party line. It is certainly necessary to avoid politicising science, so also to blow on the cold, and also not to build systems that would favor such politicization. It is also difficult to clearly assess this project individually, without the whole package announced by the rulers. Therefore, the PSL club is very shy about this bill, but we will finally support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u15	Thank you. And Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Science Degrees and Science Titles and on the degrees and title in the field of art and on certain other laws. During the earlier stages of the legislative work on this amendment, I mentioned that it was a project expected by academics. Today, Polish scientists face difficulties that do not allow them to develop their scientific career freely. That is why it is so important that we ensure, especially to young students, the conditions for development and a decent life. That's where this project is headed. The amended law is intended to prevent the outflow of talented graduates from universities and to provide them with the right conditions for the proper development of their scientific careers. In line with the novelty of the law, the achievements of young Polish scientists are to be used by the economic or social sphere. That's very good. Many editorial and, most importantly, substantive amendments were tabled during the work of the subcommittee and committee. The most controversial were the new definitions of the auxiliary promoter and the auxiliary maintainer. I agree with the Ministry that the conditions to be met by a candidate for a supporter must be laid down not on the basis of a regulation but on the basis of a law. The choice of such an important person from the point of view of the scientific process should not raise any doubts. I have already stressed that the Act must enter into force as soon as possible so that the implementation of the new programme for young researchers can be implemented as early as 2017/2018. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the procedated bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u17	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. Is there anyone else among you and your fellow Members who would like to join the list of people asking questions? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Bartosz Józwiak is the first question to be asked. You're welcome. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question related to the so-called law created by the so-called "Procedated Law." a doctorate in implementation, which in practice gives an opportunity - at least as a result of the provisions of the bill - to achieve a doctoral degree also as a result of the development of a project applicable in humanistic, pedagogical, social and related sciences. Here is the question of how the Ministry of Science and Higher Education sees the possibility of awarding scholarships under the implementation doctorate programme to potential candidates from these areas, because this will be quite an important element. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u19	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, During the work of the sub-committee dealing with the draft law, a point on the acquisition of rights resulting from the possession of a doctoral degree is deleted for implementation achievements. Personally, I think that's a good thing, because this idea has been judged controversial, subjective and creating a field for possible abuse. With regard to implementation PhDs, it should be noted that some doctoral work has already been applied, although there have actually been critical voices, whether among the representatives of scientific councils or doctoral committees shooting their noses, in quotes, in terms of this work formula. This law fully sanctiones this form of doctorate while ensuring its high quality from the scientific point of view. My question is about a new support institution. Will not the powers of his and the promoters generate conflicts? If strong personalities collide here, wouldn't that lead to conflict? Second line. The real potential for implementation work, particularly in research institutes, lies with engineering and technical staff pursuing their development in a different path than doctoral studies. Shouldn't they also have additional incentive schemes for implementation PhDs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u21	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of PhDs in implementation in Polish law is innovative. Although this solution exists in other countries of the European Union, we need to take it with caution so as not to lower the rank of titles and degrees. In the introduction of implementation PhDs, I would like to see opportunities for a closer relationship between science and industry, and therefore also for stimulating the development of our country. Please provide me with information as to whether action to achieve this goal is based on earlier studies or assessments of the effectiveness of this solution in other countries. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u23	Thank you, Member. Mr Marian Zembala, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Implementation PhDs, if their quality is defined in the form of publications, and preferably in Philadelphia journals, or patents, will cease to cause fear for their level. That's basic, that's how you look at it. That's one thing. Secondly, the support promoter needs to be seen as a candidate who has a documented record, but is only on the road to building a career. It cannot be placed on a legislative level on an equal footing with a guardian. I would like to draw attention to this, especially because some solutions, fortunately, are behind us - here I thank all those who have approached this issue beyond divisions - show that reason and concern for science have prevailed. Third note. I respect the rulers, at the same time I believe that this solution, which is so strongly requested by genuine leaders representing the central committee on degrees and research, to emerge from their ranks, is a legitimate solution, driven by concern for the future of Polish science and medicine. If I have to ask a question, it's just one thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Time, let me. Why in medicine and bioengineering, which is second in place after physicists and chemists, can we still not accept products in the form of non-commercial research as strictly scientific products? And this is a matter that will fundamentally speed up our visible development, regardless of the fact that it is so clearly visible in recent years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u25	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is another law on science after the Law on Research Institutes, after the Law on the Main Office of Measurements. There was this aspect of scientific research. All these laws have one thing in common: a certain element of centralization. The most important person, the managing person, points to the prime minister, so he also takes responsibility, because it has to be combined, for the result, for the quality of science. Here's a question for the Minister, actually there are two questions. The new definition of a PhD in implementation and the introduction of such a solution is the right solution. On the other hand, it should be correlated, harmoniously connected with a person or with persons who supervise the broadcasting of grades, because this guarantees quality. In this case, however, this decision is put into the hands of the Prime Minister. It was similar in the Law on Research Institutes, where the Prime Minister not only points out the Director, but also influences the election of the Chairman of the Scientific Council. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. So what is the decision of scientists? Aren't you afraid, or are you afraid, that these decisions will lead to a centralising election and will result in a decisive reduction in quality? A man who is in some way devoid of responsibility is much less creative than the one who feels that responsibility on himself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u27	Thank you very much. And Mr Stefan Strzłkowski, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u28	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am built by several statements today in the discussion on this bill. Let me say that I am incredibly pleased, because I once, as a local governmentman, had the opportunity to participate in an economic mission to Denmark. That's where I saw what a combination of science and the economy looks like. And I was there for this... It's called Ideon, it's a beautiful thing, it worked at least 12 or 13 years ago. Thank God the Law and Justice are in power right now and are taking this issue very seriously. This can have a huge positive effect, that we will raise not only theoretically, but also practically, for the benefit of the Polish economy. So, when it comes to the concerns you have, of course, you have to pay attention to all this, but I don't think we have much to worry about. Since the question is to be asked, I will ask the question, in part I was warned by Mrs Tomaszewska, whether they were considered, for example. such projects as the Ideon Park in Denmark. I'm sorry to point very selectively at one unit, but that's where about 30,000 people do their jobs. students [[♪ The bell ♪]] along with scientists. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Minister Piotr Dardziński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for all the comments and comments, including the critical ones we listened to carefully. Let me answer the questions you have asked. If I miss anything, I might add it in writing. In the order of the questions raised: Mr Bartosz Józwiak asked how much social sciences and humanities could be included in the implementation doctorate programme. This will depend on the activities of universities, which conduct social and humanities orientations, because the procedure for granting a PhD in implementation, and this also refers to critical comments, especially those that have alleged a possible politicisation of the whole process... I would like to make it very clear to you that implementation PhDs, just like any other PhDs, remain an exclusive domain of academic autonomy, i.e. they will be awarded by faculty councils. And neither the ministry, nor the minister, nor any member of the government will have any influence on what doctorate, when and by whom it will be defended. The role of the Ministry is limited to the fact that we are launching a competition for which universities apply. Colleges get resources that are then available among potential PhD students. So if they apply to the program, universities that conduct social sciences and humanities, then they will then be able to recruit students from these fields for doctoral studies and grant doctoral degrees in this area. In this case, a huge field of activity is left to universities. They're the ones who need to be active here. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski asked about the supporter's role as to whether he would duplicate the promoter. He will not duplicate the promoter, because the role of promoter is focused on maintaining and fulfilling all the conditions that are required for each doctorate. This is again a commentary on the critical voices that appeared during the presentation of club posts. Implementation PhDs are not other PhDs. The implementation PhDs are exactly the same PhDs, they must comply with the exact same scientific and methodological rigors, but they must have more. In this sense, They do not reduce the level of Polish science, they extend the scope of the science. The scientific guardian is not responsible for driving... Excuse me, the support officer is not responsible for conducting the scientific process. He is solely and exclusively responsible for overseeing the work of a PhD student, which will be carried out by an entrepreneur who will be involved in the scope of the research. As the name suggests, it is of a subsidiary nature and in no case must it enter into the power and competence of the promoter whose power over the scientific process will be complete. It was also a question of whether engineers should not be more able to develop their career paths, i.e. experienced engineers working in companies today. That's exactly what we were thinking about when we were preparing this program. Also about those who didn't finish their studies just a year ago, whether they might end up this year, but who maybe have already acquired a lot of experience. They have this practical knowledge, which they could now expand into theoretical knowledge, about building a theory. These people can also join this implementation doctorate program, of course, by applying to the right university, which has the authority to conduct doctoral degrees. That's what we're counting on in this case. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska and Mr Stefan Strzałkowski touched on a similar issue, which is to what extent we have benefited from the experience of countries where implementation doctorates already exist. Yes, we did. And here I would like to say to you that this project is a project, which follows from the scientific community's demands that such an implementation doctorate as has been in place in Denmark since 1971 - since 1971. Danes have their implementation PhDs well developed - or what it is like in France, where they have their implementation PhDs since 1978... Young Polish scientists who went abroad and who came back at the meetings claimed: please introduce a similar mechanism, non-revolutionist, only supporting those who study at the interface of universities and the economy, science and the economy. So we took advantage of these experiences. These are also the experiences that the European Commission is trying to recommend to all countries today. So that we are one of the European countries that is trying to catch up as soon as possible in this area. This programme will meet with great approval and he meets with great approval from the academic community, as well as those who will do these PhDs. And this criticism in the environment is, in my opinion, far less than what has been said, in particular by your opposition Members. Prof. Marian Zembala, Mr Zembala, asked about medical sciences and non-commercial research and the possibility of treating them as scientific achievements. This goes a little beyond the scope of this law, Mr. President. All I can say is that this issue is noticed and dealt with in the context of Law 2.0. I would not like to be here, because I am speaking from the speaker officially, deciding what will be the decision, but it is seen as an important problem that this is also a work that is related to science. Mrs Fabisiak drew attention to the issue of centralisation. I would just like to say that there is no centralization element in the process, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that the whole procedure is on the side of autonomous not even universities, but faculty councils, because it is the boards of faculty that conduct de facto studies, supervise doctoral studies. On the other hand, I understand that this remark refers to the frequently appearing thread of the central accreditation committee. And here I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that a procedure similar to the one proposed in this law is used in the case of the Polish Accreditation Commission, i.e. the so-called. PAK, where not the Prime Minister, but the Minister appoints a chairman from among all members who are elected, posted to work in the Polish Accreditation Board. In this case, we are also not violating the autonomy or self-government of the scientific community, because all members of the central accreditation committee are elected. So each of them has potential or opportunity. And this is rather an extension of trust in the academic community. I don't see, we don't see any important elements here that would be centralized. I hope I answered all the questions. Thank you very much for your work in the subcommittee as well as in the committee. Thank you very much for the votes that supported this project. I am convinced that it will have a significant impact on the development of Polish science, on the quality of Polish science, and also on the impact of science on the progress of the economy, which is also important for the ability to raise funds for learning. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. Are you the rapporteur? Here you go, Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you for working both in the subcommittee and in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on this project. I would like to make it very clear, despite the doubts that appear here, that what we call a PhD in implementation is really the implementation of a project related to a scholarship and a competition in which universities or organisational units of individual universities will be able to participate. That's one thing. So it's an opportunity to raise new resources for higher education. The second point is very important and important at the same time... This project, which has been worked in committee, is actually a project aimed at - and I apologise for the definition - of sucking out funds for scientific projects, but also implementation in terms of doctoral promotion whether it is in the field of social sciences or other sciences, the teachings applied in accordance with all these procedures to date. So a PhD in implementation is a PhD that can be obtained from scientific research. So research is, as it were, a starting point and a fundamental factor in getting a doctor's degree. On the other hand, it is important to transform these results of research into a material effect, into an effect which could also be described as a commercial effect. So, thanking you for your cooperation, at the same time I ask you to treat this draft amendment - a project in this final form - as a kind of compromise between the executive and the legislative authorities, but also within the legislative authority as a compromise between the various policy options. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u33	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Postal Law Act (prints Nos 1426 and 1471). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm handing over the information that comes from the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. The Committee on Infrastructure dealt with the postal law project, with printing No 1426. The project adapts the current provisions of the Law of 12 November 2012. Postal law as regards the method of financing the net cost of universal service obligations to the recommendations of the European Commission. We have these recommendations from the European Commission, and that is what we are doing right now. The project introduces major changes in the way the postal operator's contribution to the net cost financing of universal service obligations by the designated operator is calculated and requires the President of the Office of Electronic Communications to carry out a regular market survey in order to determine the adequacy of the thresholds for the operator's contribution to the payment and the level of that contribution. In addition, the project makes the mechanism for launching grants for public mail exempt from postal charges more flexible. The problem is that Poczta Polska is the designated operator. It happens that Polish Post has to provide services that are not always adequate to the costs incurred. Therefore, as a committee, we recommend solutions that will allow Poczta Polska to simply adopt these solutions, which are safe for the functioning, financial functioning of the Polish Post. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u35	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Peter King, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position on the draft law amending the Postal Law Act, Parliamentary Printing No. 1426. Since this is the first change of the Postal Law in this term, I wouldn't be myself if I didn't recall a few numbers. In 2007, the number of post offices that were in Poland was 8692 - these data that I am giving you, I am based on the reports of the Office of Electronic Communications of 2007 and 2015. - Whereas in 2015 the number of offices fell to 7387. Within a few years, the Civic Platform and PSL have closed down nearly 1000 post offices. It is also worth looking at employment in the case of the largest postal operator, employment in Poczta Polska. I would like to remind you, also on the basis of the data resulting from the reports of the Office for Electronic Communications, that this employment was still over 100,000 in 2007. employees and dropped to 75 000 in 2015. employment. This shows how deep the crisis under the last PO-PSL coalition went through Poland Post. This project, which we are talking about today, concerns the alignment of the current solutions of the Law of 12 November 2012. Postal law as regards the method of financing the net cost of universal service obligations with the recommendations of the European Commission. The recommendations were made in the decision approving the financing from the point of view of compliance with the State aid rules and competition rules. The Commission's decision concerned compensation for the designated operator - Poczta Polska for the net cost of universal service obligations for the years 2013 to 2015. This financing, which we are talking about today, will take place in a situation where the designated operator will suffer a loss for the provision of universal services. The calculation of the net cost shall be designed to determine whether the financial result of the designated operator is adversely affected by the fulfilment of the obligations imposed. The net cost shall be determined by comparing the actual financial result of the incumbent operator with the hypothetical situation in which that operator would be exempt from that obligation and could freely modify the scope and way in which its activities are carried out, following only the criterion of maximising the economic profit. Where a positive net cost is found, the operator shall be entitled to obtain compensation, which constitutes State aid, since it consists of: firstly, universal service providers and falling within the scope of universal service, and secondly, complementaryly, when the measures collected from operators prove insufficient, the State budget. Therefore, the compensation required notification in order to establish its compatibility with the internal market. The amendments to the Act also concern the adjustment of the method of determining the proportion of postal operators' contribution to net cost financing. The current share is calculated on the total revenue of the operator from universal services and services falling within the scope of universal services. After the change, the revenues of the operator up to PLN 1 million will not be taken into account. This is the threshold from which the obligation to participate in the financing of this cost arises. At the same time, the contribution may not be higher than 2% That's the revenue. In practice, this means that all operators, both with revenues below PLN 1 million and higher revenues, will not have a contribution from the first million PLN. Maximum share level of 2% revenue, remains unchanged. This draft also provides for penalties to be imposed on postal operators for failure to provide information and for the provision of false or incomplete information necessary for a fair examination. The President of UKE will inform postal operators of the threat of financial penalties for failure to comply with information obligations. At the same time, the current penalty imposed by the President of UKE on an operator designated for failure to submit the documents necessary to determine the net cost and loss for universal services has been waived, as they will have to be submitted in conjunction with the request of the operator designated for payment according to the project. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice intends to support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u37	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Tomczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 6 April 2017, a meeting of the Infrastructure Commission took place, the first reading of the Government's draft law amending the Postal Law Act. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski. The project concerns the implementation of the comments submitted by the European Commission during the notification of the aid scheme providing an adequate level of compensation for the actual losses incurred by the operator designated for the provision of universal services, i.e. Poland Post. The Commission adopted amendments of an editorial and linguistic nature. The Commission also adopted a report proposing the adoption by the Sejm of the draft law submitted. The amendments proposed in the project, in the Postal Law, aim to take into account the comments submitted by the European Commission during the notification of the aid scheme, the positive outcome of which allows the financing of the net cost of universal service obligations to be activated, in particular the findings resulting from the European Commission's decision of 26 November 2015 - the compensation for Polish Post for the net cost of universal service obligations in 2013-2015, as well as the clarification of the provisions relating to the procedure for granting the above. compensation and in addition to the grant procedure for the provision of postal services which are legally exempt from postal charges. It should be stressed that, in line with the Commission's view, the introduction of the programme notification procedure for the following years, de facto determining the implementation of the provisions of the Law in this respect. As the consequence of the proposed law is the occurrence of budgetary implications, according to the Public Finance Act, a limit of budgetary expenditure has been set for each subsequent year for a period of 10 years starting from the date of entry into force of the provisions of this Law. Given that the most important regulatory changes introduced in the project are beneficial for postal operators, as they concern a reduction in their contribution by not taking into account in the calculation of their income below PLN 1 million from universal services or falling within the scope of universal services, and that the earliest possible amendment will enable the notification of the aid scheme for compensation to Poczta Polska for the net cost of universal service obligations for the next period starting with the determination of possible compensation, the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the bill submitted to the High House in accordance with the recommendation contained in the report of the Infrastructure Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u39	Thank you very much. And Mr Sylwester Khrushch, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I present my position on the amendment of the Postal Law Act. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already mentioned many positive aspects of these changes, so that this notification, which is necessary, and all the decisions of the European Commission, are made to help ensure that regulations around the mail are legal. All these things, of course, are necessary. We as the Kukiz Members' Club15 will vote for, of course, but I would like to draw attention to the things that raise our doubts. They were also raised during the public consultation. These are generally two things. One: in our opinion it is not necessary, for example. the introduction of an obligation to publish on the website of the Office for Electronic Communications net cost information and a loss of aid only if the financing mechanism for the net cost for a given year is activated, taking into account the specific nature of the universal service and the associated specific status of the designated operator, also in practice increasing its advantage in certain other areas of the market. The information referred to in this provision may also serve as a natural control of the activities of the operator designated not only in the field of universal service, which appears to have been one of the objectives originally pursued by the legislator in its creation. In addition, the Act requires the President of the Office of Electronic Communications to review postal market analyses at least once every 5 years in order to assess the adequacy of certain indicators. It was proposed that the first study should be carried out in 2019. In view of the fact that the studies were carried out by UKE, there is a penalty imposed on the operator for failure to provide information and for the provision of false or incomplete information, the information necessary for the proper conduct of the study. However, we agree with the comments of some stakeholders, which was just emphasised during the public consultation that the market assessment would be too late. We are already a few years after the liberalisation of the market, and the identification of these mechanisms which will follow may be too late and this could result in a significant impediment to the development of competition in the market or even a restriction of competition, which may result in the withdrawal of certain operators from the market. And these were the two comments that we raise as the Kukiz Posel Club15, but as for the whole, we will of course vote in favour of this change in the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u41	Thank you very much. And Mr Mark Owl, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present the position of our club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Postal Law, prints no. 1426 and 1471. The draft law is implemented by the European Commission in 2015 during the notification of the aid scheme compensation for the operator related to the financing of the net cost of the universal service obligation by Poczta Polska. The Polish party accepted the Commission's position. It must be acknowledged that this will result in costs which are recorded as a result of regulation for this project, amounting to 1600 000. zł. According to Art. 47 of this law is required by an appointed operator to provide universal services throughout the country. Between 2013 and 2015 Poland Post was such an operator, as is the case until 2025. The Polish Post Office was selected by means of a competition. My previous speakers have already said that not always universal service activities are profitable activities, and therefore there is a need to compensate for net costs. However, it is worth considering whether the Postal Law, which sets out the rules for the functioning of the postal market in Poland, actually applies under the conditions of its full liberalisation. In my opinion, if we ask ourselves whether the Polish market is sufficiently liberalised, the answer may be one: it is not. Moreover, the last competition, which was linked to the choice of the operator, clearly confirmed this, as there were de facto no entities that could meet the requirements of this competition. Therefore, Poczta Polska has become the only entity and there are consequences. The lack of liberalisation of the postal services market has consequences. In fact, large economic operators who attempted to compete with the Polish Post were expelled from the Polish market. And today you just have to pay us all for this situation. As a good example, I think it is possible to give just a new post-charger, which has been introduced since 1 January. These are 20-, 30-percent increases for postal services. A similar scale, but already counted in hundreds of millions of zlotys, also applies to correspondence from institutions dependent on the state budget. When you look at the announcements of the President of Polish Post, which announces an increase of its revenues to the level of PLN 7 billion, it seems that this is not the end. We are in favour of the development of the Polish Post, but for the improvement of the quality of services, for the investments carried out. However, this cannot be done in the form of a monopolistic position used by the Polish Post. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u43	Thank you very much. And Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party vis-à-vis the government's draft law on amending the Postal Law, already mentioned in prints Nos 1426 and 1471. As pointed out by my previous speakers and by the chairman of the committee as rapporteur, the proposal concerns the implementation of the comments submitted by the European Commission during the notification of the aid scheme providing an adequate level of compensation for the operator designated for the provision of universal services, the Polish Post. The aim of this project is to ensure the distribution of funds to ensure a good level of implementation of these projects, but at the same time in accordance with the methods, methods and rules set by the European Union, which will be aligned with our legislation. This concerns both the 2013 and 2015 period, as well as the standardization of the rules and provisions of the law, the functioning of the Polish Post as an operator in the near future. The draft sets out the conditions, sets out the indicators, specifies, if any, the amounts and thresholds from which the funds will be calculated as a surcharge, also defines the manner of information, the implementation of possible reminders and penalties, as well as ensuring the proper and forward-looking implementation of this draft law after its adoption to be implemented within 14 days. The Polish People's Party Club will vote in favour of this project. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list? [[Yes.]] That's very kind of you, sir. And let's get to the questions. The first question is asked by Mr Jan Warzech. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In addition to carrying out at least once every 5 years reviews of the postal market, public consultations are also to be included in the scope of the post market survey. The first such study is to be carried out in 2019. Who, or rather, who will decide on the amount of the penalty provided for postal operators for not providing information or providing false, incomplete and necessary information to carry out such a study? And the question may not be strictly about this law, but affecting the cost of delivery and the quality of service. By sending a letter, we want to make sure that it reaches the recipient as soon as possible. Are there plans for Polish Post so that the recipient can monitor and track the status of his registered mail online? Shouldn't it be possible to scan registered mail during broadcasting and reception to reduce the time they receive in the mail office window? Is it envisaged to introduce a service in the near future that the mailman not only brings packages but also receives them, e.g. From the company, the court or the D.A.'s office? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u47	Thank you, sir. And Mr Sitarski, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the proposed amendment to the Postal Law Act, art. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 6, the net calculation of the operator is to take into account the so-called. a reasonable profit to be calculated on the basis of the cost recovery rate of the capital involved. Question: "Are services to be provided on the basis of a sales contract but without a price determination?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u49	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice of this amendment wishes to introduce the principle that the delivery of registered consignments in judicial and administrative proceedings will be entrusted to the designated operator. In practice it will be Polish Post, it will be a monopoly on this task. By the way, I wanted to ask you about the pay of the postmen. Not more than a month ago, practically throughout Poland, there were protests by postmen regarding proposals for changes to the pay regulations. Minister, if Poczta Polska will have a monopoly - it will have additional income - as I mentioned earlier, will it affect the pay of the postmen? Are and when are their salaries expected to increase? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u51	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Visitors to the Gallery! Mr King said that the PO closed the post office points. Therefore, my question is whether these regulations will increase the number of Polish Post points and whether it will improve the operation of Polish Post, because, as we see on a daily basis, there are queues, on Saturdays the post office is closed, you cannot pick up shipments. Perhaps an increase in the number of points - if PiS does so - will improve it for the benefit of customers who will be able to pick up a package on Saturday or settle something there. That's what we're waiting for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u53	Mr Jacek Tomczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister how he evaluates today the delivery of services by the Polish Post in terms of timeliness, above all delivery of shipments. Does the Ministry keep this analysis up to date? What is your assessment of the implementation of universal service obligations by the Polish Post? How does Poczta Polska do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u55	Thank you. And Mr Jerzy Paul.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very happy to hear about the cessation of the liquidation of post offices, as well as the liquidation of police stations - which was carried out with such joy by the PO-PSL governing coalition. Today we are leaning on the amendment of the Postal Law, which must be introduced. Minister, I have a question on the subject. Wouldn't Posta Polska bear any additional costs after the amendment of this law, which are not now applicable to it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u57	Thank you. And Mr Sylwester Khrushch, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. What department, office, entity will be responsible for collecting penalties for bad services? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u59	And Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Posta Polska as the designated operator has the obligation to provide universal services, as mentioned here, and the justification of this bill... It follows that these services are not always adequately financed. Since this draft law was not presented in the Parliament's Chamber, but in the committee, I would like to ask for information on the main types of services in the field of these universal services and why. What is the scale of this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u61	Thank you very much. As the list of speakers has been exhausted, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Minister Kazimierz Smolinski. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the Members' questions. Mr Warzecha asked about the checks and the amount of the penalty. The draft provides for a maximum penalty, while its amount will be fixed by the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, taking into account the extent of the offence. The law only provides for maximum rates. As far as 300% of the average salary is concerned, I think that these are not drastic rates for individuals who violate the rules, but for entrepreneurs, they are already hundreds, up to 300,000. Euros, so they're bigger. Of course, the President of UKE will take into account both the scale of the offence and its nature as regards the application of the penalty. Now with regard to questions directly unrelated to the law, but concerning it indirectly may also, because it is the cost of the universal service, it can first monitor and track the consignment. We want the shipments to go as soon as possible. Of course it is. also the main task of mail to carry out these shipments in a timely manner. In the case of certain consignments, the post office is required to carry them out within D+1 and in this respect it is controlled by the Office of Electronic Communications whether this timeliness is implemented. On the other hand, the possibility of tracking a registered shipment, because we are talking about it, already exists. You can track the package on Envelo's platform. It is the platform of the company of the daughter of Poczta Polska - Posta Polska Digital Services is a company which operates the electronic platform of Envelo, and on this platform you can follow the registered shipment. Scanning shipments is possible. Already at the moment, Poland Post offers so-called. Hybrid service, that someone can at the post office present the type of letter or mail in paper form, mail can scan it and send it to the recipient in electronic form and vice versa, someone can send it in electronic form, Polish Post will print it and send it to the recipient in paper form. So this hybrid service, by the way, already exists. Is there a plan... I was talking about scanning - yes, these services are provided. On the other hand, do we provide a service for the mailman to receive packages from the company, the court, the prosecutor's office? As far as I know, the post office doesn't plan that kind of service. However, the transmission of consignments should take place at the post office and the consignment must be delivered to the office. Perhaps this might be the case in the future, but more so in the field of electronic broadcasting, and this is what Poczta Polska is working on. I would also like to refer to Mr Owl's speech. Mr President, the increases have been since 1 February, not since 1 January. They were established and this is what the law requires, that they be accepted by the President or by the Office of Electronic Communications, so there is control over it. As regards the postal strategy and the increase in revenues, there is absolutely no concern that this may generate price increases, because the only price for services that is not on the basis of a civil law contract, only an official price, concerns universal shipments. This price is controlled by the Office of Electronic Communications and, of course, the post office cannot shape these prices in any way, but must obtain the approval of the office. So both the frequency of these increases and their size are controlled by the appropriate authority, the control authority of the Office of Electronic Communications. As regards individual questions, it is also the case that Mr Sitarski asked about services on the basis of contracts and pricing services. Apart from the price list for universal services, i.e. letters sent, everything is on the basis of civil law contracts, contracts are concluded with customers and this is the full market activity of mail, which must compete with everyone on the market in this respect. With regard to this basic service, there are also dozens of operators on the market. Although this is what the Act says, in order to relieve the smaller ones, that is, they will not have to contribute to this contribution for possible coverage as regards the operator designated by the Polish Post, so the State will have to compensate for this, and therefore it is envisaged in the impact assessment of the regulation to intervene in the form of State aid. Mrs Płępek asked about the pay of the postmen. I have to say with regret that in the last 8 years of the previous government team there have been no increases, not only for postmen, for any professional group in Poczta Polska. There were first increases last year. Unfortunately, the average salary in Poczta Polska is dramatically low and it amounts to 3,000. gross zloty, with an average national salary of over 4 000. You can clearly see that this is where the post office stops because it's at 80,000. This average should be at least the average in Poland, in enterprises. And the post office is the largest entrepreneur in the market, which employs the most employees - as an entrepreneur, because there are more professional groups, but this is the police or the military. The army already did, because until recently there were fewer soldiers than employees in Poczta Polska. Monopoly for legal mail - we had a market situation with regard to these mails and I think that society does not need to be persuaded to what ended this experiment that a private company carried out legal mail. Many scandalous, so to speak, behaviour on the market has been a drama of many people who have not received court shipments, ending court proceedings, which has often ended in tragedy for many families or for many citizens. Poczta Polska guarantees the right service in this area. As in most Western European countries, Poland Post is a monopolist in this area, here we are doing nothing, and the Polish state must ensure the right quality of services in this area. Mr Romecki - improving the operation of the mail, more points, or will be open on Saturdays. Poczta Polska is the designated operator who won the tender in this respect. The Act obliges the designated operator to have a service provided at least five times a week and the post office complies with this requirement. Saturdays aren't taken into account yet. It's obviously cost-related. If we manage to increase these revenues, which the Polish Post Office is talking about in the perspective of several years, I think there is nothing to prevent some institutions, especially in larger cities, from being active also on Saturdays. But this decision will already be on the side of the Polish Post, because there is no such requirement. There's more points, though, right? 2016 was the first year when three very dangerous trends were stopped. The first is to reduce the number of jobs. This trend has been stopped. For the first time, the number of employees has been increased, nearly 800 jobs have been increased. The decrease in the number of points was then stopped, this trend was stopped, there was an increase and the first facilities were opened at the end of the year, as well as the first increases. It was a drama, too. We also stopped the sale of the Polish Post estate. Unfortunately, this sale has been carried out in the wrong way over the last few years. This consisted only in the necessity of the sale to cover the budget hole of the Polish Post. Last year, the loss of Polish Post was due only to the fact that we did not sell the property that was supposed to cover this hole. This year, the sale will take place, but it will only take place for the sole purpose of creating housing in these properties for the purpose of implementing the National Housing Programme, i.e. for the benefit of citizens. Mr Tomczak asked for his duty... I'm sorry, I don't remember the exact question, but anyway, it was about the duty of control. This check, as I said, is conducted by the Electronic Communications Office. A similar question was asked by Mr Khrushch. In this respect, too, in terms of quality, timely delivery, the Office of Electronic Communications controls the mail. In addition to the ownership control exercised by the Minister of Infrastructure as Minister of Communications responsible for this department of government administration, the Office of Electronic Communications shall carry out the control in this respect. Mr Lassota then asked for services that were not profitable. These are primarily services related to the implementation of electoral law, services related to the delivery of consignments of blind people. These shipments are unprofitable. If, in the case of basic consignments, this non-profitability occurs, this is also the purpose of the present law, in order to possibly cover the loss in this respect of the Polish Post Office, which will result from this. Of course, until now the accounting and settlements which Posta Polska carried out have prevented in principle the separation of this activity, which is carried out in a general way, so that we can benefit from this subsidy. At the moment, the post office is working to convince the Office of Electronic Communications that it is indeed lossy in terms of universal service so that it can claim compensation. The last increase that took place last year was significant, but at the same time undoubtedly the office will not agree to any further increases for the coming years and the post office is aware of it. Increased revenues can only result from other services, i.e. financial services, which in Poczta Polska are among the lowest in comparison with European countries - we want to develop banking services, insurance services - as well as property protection services. The post office employs thousands of employees who protect property, has very good experience in this area, excellent employees. An example of this is the recently won tender for airport security in Pyrzowice. This is further evidence that revenue can be increased, not necessarily burdening citizens with it. This should result in the fact that the burden on the citizens should be lower, because we will receive other revenues as Polish Post. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u63	Thank you very much. [[As rapporteur.]] Now, sir. Before I ask you to speak, I would like to inform the High House that our discussions are being listened to by young people from the Technical Schools in Łańcut together with the Director, and I am especially pleased that our colleague Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, who we also greet, is a graduate of this school. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And Mr Rzońca, also from Podkarpacie, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Thank you so much for your well-known kindness to Podkarpacie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much to all the parliamentarians who have spoken in this debate. Maybe this law is not as loud as it is important, because it is indeed the Polish Post Office that is in some sense our national good and a company that should operate as an operator designated in various situations, including those in which this company does not bring profit. So that is the point of this law, that we are trying, based on European law, simply to allow some services, even though they are scarce, to be provided by the Polish Post as a national designated operator. Thank you very much to all your parliamentarians for supporting this law and I hope that Poland's Post will get better and better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u65	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u66	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Postal Law Act. The need to proceed with the law is due to the need to take into account the comments submitted by the European Commission during the notification of the aid scheme. It is also intended to clarify the rules on the procedure for payment of compensation and, in addition, the allocation of grants for the provision of postal services which are legally exempt from postal charges. The amendment is necessary because the aid scheme for Polish Post for the following years, i.e. Recognizing State aid to postal services as compatible with the EU internal market requires an adjustment of the way in which other postal operators' participation in the net cost financing contribution is determined. The project has established, among other things, that every 5 years the President of the Office of Electronic Communications will carry out reviews of the postal market in order to assess the market situation. The first test will be carried out in 2019. The study will also include a public consultation on the proposed changes. There is no need to convince anyone about the benefits of periodic evaluation. The information obtained from the study will help to respond to adverse events. The Act provides for a penalty for operators not to provide information or to provide false or incomplete information necessary for a reliable regular postal market investigation. This is a necessary solution because it guarantees the accuracy of the data transmitted. There is no discussion that the law amending the Postal Law is necessary. It regulates issues related to the operation of the existing operator and, in my opinion, gives a monopoly on the handling of judicial shipments to the sole State operator. I believe that this solution is far more favourable. It gives a much greater probability that consignments, which are very often received by citizens, will end up in the right hands. On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I support the draft law and the report of the Infrastructure Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u67	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government bill amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Act on the National Court Register (prints no. 1230 and 1421). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications on the government draft law amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Act on the National Court Register, print no. 1230. The Extraordinary Commission on Codification Changes after considering this draft law at two meetings on 22 February and 23 March this year. brings the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. The project was worked by the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification at two meetings. The whole amendment was accepted by committee members who unanimously supported the amendment submitted by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u69	Thank you very much, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u70	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Act amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Act on the National Court Register. Let me just remind you that the main objective of the amendment is to eliminate the possibility of using a simple electronic signature when setting up limited liability companies in S24 mode and thereby increase the safety of trading. To sign the agreement of the company with the o.o. only a qualified electronic signature and a signature confirmed by a trusted profile of ePUAP would be used in the National Court Register. The aim of the proposed amendment is to increase the safety standards for trading when setting up companies. There have been situations, not many of them, but some 40 cases of abuse related to the situation in which the establishment of an O.O. company have been identified. signatures have been made in regular mode. For this reason, the government proposed to increase the standard of trading safety. This amendment, as I have already emphasised before, has met with full acceptance and parliamentarians and opinion makers of the proposed amendment. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u71	I, too, thank you very much, sir. And Mr. Zdzisław Gawlik, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr Fellowships, Mr Fellow Members, On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the Act amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Act on the National Court Register. The possibility of setting up a limited liability company using the electronic model has existed since 1 January 2012. The ICT system for this model is described in summary as the S24 formula. According to the information provided in the explanatory memorandum to the proposed law, 36 678 limited liability companies were established in our country by the end of 2015. It is also important that the share of this form, which is used by the founding partners to establish a limited liability company, is increasing. In 2015, more than 47% of all limited liability companies were established using the S24 formula. The explanatory memorandum to the proposed legal act states that the success of this form can primarily be attributed to user-friendly electronic signature solutions required for the establishment of the company and the submission of an appropriate application to the National Courts of Justice. From the information provided, it appears that 80% of all companies incorporated in the electronic system at that time used a simple electronic signature in this system. Of course, like the predecessor, I would also refer to the fact that some 40 cases of abuse due to unauthorised use of personal data have been identified by examining the form of establishment of a limited liability company. The proposed amendment eliminates the possibility of setting up a limited liability company in the ICT system with the participation of an ordinary electronic signature. Of course, this form of incorporation of the company in the electronic system is still possible using the so-called. qualified e-signatures, e-signatures confirmed by a trust profile. It is also necessary to agree that the use of the qualified signature is increasingly common in relation to 2012, but also that what the developer points out in the statement that it will reduce the possibility for foreigners to use this form of establishment of a limited liability company. Life will actually show whether this change will affect it in any way, whether it will reduce the availability of this form of setting up a limited liability company not only for foreigners, but also others potentially interested in this form of business activity. The draft law, the proposed change as if it chose from a conflict of two reasons, the two interests of marketing security, i.e. trust in citizens, and is in favour of marketing security. The limited liability company itself is based on the trust of the people or entities that the company is establishing. And, of course, not only in these cases and not only for this reason, there was a lot of irregularities in setting up a limited liability company in the past, but I do not know if it is the best idea to model a way to achieve the desired goal. The proposed amendment implies, of course, amendments to the Commercial Companies Code and as a consequence of the necessary amendments to the Civil Procedure Code and the National Court Register Act. In view of the fact that the proposed legislation is a continuation of the 2011 good idea, this proposal must be supported, while continuing to believe that this change in any way will not impede access to this form of activity, which is a limited liability company. And my club will support the proposed revision of the three mentioned laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u73	Thank you. Mr. Jerzy Jachnik, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I wanted to present a position on the draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act, the Civil Procedure Code Act and the National Court Register Act. Well, practically, the project promoters and the Member who spoke before me have already made sense. The point is: the projectors want to increase the safety of trading, as recent start-ups of companies, especially foreign companies, have appeared, whereas the shareholders of companies do not have a PESEL number. So the project seems to be heading in the right direction. Changing an ordinary electronic signature to a qualified signature or an ePUAP signature is intentional. The project is also accompanied by a regulation on how to establish an account in the electronic system. As a matter of fact, Kukiz15 raises no objections to this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u75	Thank you. And Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the club Moderna vis-à-vis the bill amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Act on the National Court Register. As my previous speakers have said, the aim of this regulation is to eliminate abuses that have occurred in a small number, because, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, there have been only 40 such cases, and therefore in a small number of cases these abuses have occurred. In the case of more than 36 thousand. it is indeed a very small number of frauds, but the safety of trading is a very important issue and it convinces me personally that it is important to give up the ordinary signature, all the more so that the ePUAP system becomes more and more common, is available and is a free system, therefore it will not cause any great restrictions. Well, I share with the previous speakers the same concerns about foreign entities, foreign companies, but I think they will also be able to benefit from the new forms that are proposed. We support this regulation, the safety of turnover is the most important criterion in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u77	Thank you. And let's get to the questions. Do any of the other ladies and gentlemen want to be on the list? Mr Jacek Tomczak, please. In that case, Mr Sitarski is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the room: What about time?]] One and a half minutes. There's no envoy? Oh, here he is, Mr. Member, so come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u78	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My questions concern the entry into force of the revised rules on the use of the standard contract. What companies can be established in ICT mode and who can be a partner? Will it be possible to change the terms of the contract before registering the company, e.g. another personal composition of the company's bodies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u79	Thank you. And Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The changes to the bill will undoubtedly increase security, but this also entails difficulties for entrepreneurs. Getting a qualified electronic signature or a signed form confirmed by a trusted profile are formalities that require time from entrepreneurs. On the other hand, a qualified electronic signature involves not only taking time, but also costs. The purchase of a set to make such a signature is an expense of several hundred zlotys. Therefore, I have a question for the authors of the government bill discussed today. The explanatory memorandum refers to about 40 cases of abuse in this area, so it is not a huge number. The obstacles introduced will affect a multitude of entrepreneurs. I would therefore like to ask whether the government is working on other amendments to the Company Code that will make it easier for businesses to run business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u81	Thank you. And Mr Maciej Masłowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The simplification of the use of ordinary electronic signature when setting up limited liability companies under S24 was introduced in order to stimulate entrepreneurship and facilitate business start-up. Indeed, over 36 thousand were established in S24 mode between January 2012 and November 2015. limited liability companies. The applicant wishes to eliminate this possibility by referring to the abuse that has occurred recently, although it itself points out in the explanatory memorandum that this solution has proved to be a major success. Therefore, my question is as follows. What is the level of fraud involving the use of other people's data? How much fraud has been done during this period of operation? What is their ratio for the total number of registered nearly 40 000. Companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u83	Thank you. And Mr Jacek Tomczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not want to repeat any more, because I think we are all going in the same direction, why the solution good for entrepreneurs, which was accepted, widely used, concerned many thousands of cases of company registration in this mode, we are replacing the solution with a slightly more complex and difficult solution for entrepreneurs. Indeed, the problem that the Minister, the Government, points out, concerns a small number of cases that have been detected, so writing a separate bill, making life difficult for entrepreneurs due to 40 cases where 36,000 were involved. companies registered under this procedure seem to me to be poorly justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u85	Thank you very much. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebaniak. Faggot, I'm sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u86	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer to the questions that have been asked to the representatives of the applicant. Question of Mr Sikorski: What companies can be established in the S24 system? These are companies: public, limited partnership and limited liability company. There was also a question as to whether the contract of the company could be amended before registration. Yes, it can be changed, there are no changes here; such an explanation. Mrs Płępek asked about a small number of abuses, and this also appears later, perhaps in a moment's time and whether the government is working on other changes, in particular amendments to the Code of Commercial Companies, which meet the needs of entrepreneurs, will facilitate business activity. Yeah, the government's working on these changes. We work at the Ministry of Justice, for example. to reduce the minimum share capital to zloty and other amendments to the Commercial Companies Code, meeting the needs of practice, business needs. I also know that, in the Ministry of Development, this reflection is also taking place, and we will probably be able to expect some legislative proposals from that department soon too, so that the government is still working on facilitating business activities, especially in the Commercial Companies Code. Mrs Płępek, but also Mr Masłowski, Mr Tomczak, referred to a small number of abuses found when using a simple signature, asking an open question as to whether such a small number of abuses justify the government's legislative initiative. Yes, it justifies that these forty-several cases identified are cases identified on the basis of the knowledge of the jurors, judges and referenda ruling in the National Court Register and the activities of the prosecution, law enforcement authorities. We do not know the dark number of such activities potentially used for very serious crimes, e.g. VAT fraud. You can set up such a company and use it for such an evil purpose. Therefore, the same number of 40 in comparison with the number of almost 40 thousand. He doesn't tell us much, because we don't know a dark number, and probably in the process of prosecuting various kinds of economic crimes, we'll find that there's a lot more than 40, and we need to end this as soon as possible, which is why we've adopted this mode. I am very pleased that all clubs, all those speaking on behalf of the clubs, accept this justification of the government despite some doubts expressed in the questions, that in a situation where we are dealing with marketing safety and some ease, we should give the primacy of marketing safety, when in fact we do not throw this great project into the basket, we just say: we eliminate the ordinary signature, which is very easy to use for bad purposes, but we leave two relatively easily accessible forms, in particular ePUAP, which is very widespread, which does not involve any special inconveniences or costs. All of this is, all of this remains, all of this in our belief will not destroy the success of the instrument in the form of S24. It will continue to be used, but will only be used to create real economic organisms, not fictional organisms, e.g. for criminal purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This discussion confirms, it seems, the need and the need to submit a revision by the government which will ensure the safety of trading. I would like to thank all parliamentarians for their discussion, participation in the work and support of the proposed amendment. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u89	Thank you, too, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Act on the National Court Register, print no. 1230. The aim of this project is to eliminate the possibility of using a simple electronic signature when setting up S-24 limited liability companies and thereby improve the safety of legal trading. To sign the agreement of the company with the o.o. only a qualified electronic signature and a signature confirmed by a trusted profile of ePUAP would be used to apply for such a company to the National Court Register. Since 1 January 2012, it is possible to establish a company with o.o. using the template made available in the electronic system, mode S-24, and applying to the signing of the contract and to submit an application for entry in the National Court Register for an ordinary electronic signature. It was introduced to stimulate entrepreneurship and facilitate business activity in this most popular corporate form. This solution proved to be a great success. Number of companies in O.O. assumed in the S-24 mode is steadily growing and currently account for almost half of all newly created companies. In total between January 2012 and November 2015, 36 678 companies were established in this manner. One of the elements that decided to give entrepreneurs a great interest in using the S-24 mode to establish the company was the uncomplicated solution for users with regard to electronic signature required to sign the contract and submit an application to the KRS. According to estimates, almost 80% users use a simple electronic signature. Such a signature is sufficient to establish an account in the electronic system for handling the attachment and other activities concerning the company and to activate the signature in the system where a relatively limited number of data is required: name, PESEL number and address for correspondence. However, during the last few months there have been signals about cases of abuse involving the unauthorised use of personal data of other persons to establish a company from o.o. in S-24 mode. Such situations may arise due to the fact that the use of an ordinary electronic signature in this case does not give 100% certainty that the person signing the contract is indeed the person who has been designated as having an agreement with the company. The system only checks the compatibility of the PESEL number indicated by the user with the data contained in the PESEL register and, in the case of foreigners who do not have a PESEL number, it is not possible to carry out even such verification. The authors of the project, giving priority to the safety of trading and in order to eliminate solutions that may lead to abuse, propose to withdraw from the ordinary electronic signature when setting up a company with o.o. and allow only qualified e-signatures or signatures confirmed by a trusted ePUAP profile to be used in this respect. High Izbo! All, even the most beneficial solutions and novelties, require timely review and improvement. The qualified electronic signature will be in the case of an important activity such as the establishment of companies with o.o. a much safer and more secure solution than a simple electronic signature. By building an e-state in which a citizen can easily handle official matters via the Internet, we must not forget about the safety of trading and the protection of personal data. Although the changes involve obstacles for entrepreneurs, in our view, as proposed by the projectors, they will contribute to improving the safety of legal trading.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u91	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts (prints Nos 1248 and 1453). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u92	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I also have the honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications on the Senate draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and the Law on the Procedure before Administrative Courts, print No 1248. Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes after considering this draft law at its meetings on 8 March and 5 April this year. asks the High Sejm to approve the proposed amendment. In short, the work on this project has been carried out in an efficient manner. The project concerns the extension of the possibility of taking part in legal proceedings of minors who have completed 13. A year old. Following discussions with representatives of the Ministry, representatives of the National Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ombudsman in principle unanimously, with one abstention, both the subcommittee but later the committee considered the proposed implementation to be justified with the argument that this amendment would have a positive effect on raising public awareness of justice in the case of minors. Therefore, I ask that the High Sejm adopt this proposed amendment. At the same time, I would like to stress that all parliamentary clubs supported this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President, I am opening the discussion and ask you to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u94	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. As I have already pointed out, this amendment is the implementation of the request made in the petition P9 95 of the Law of 30 August 2002. The law on proceedings before administrative courts, which provides that at a public hearing only the persons called to the court have access to the courtroom outside the parties and persons called upon, and only the persons called to the court have access to the court in secret. The petitioner calls for an addition to the article. 95 § 2 Act on proceedings before administrative courts, stating that the court may authorise the presence of a minor who has completed 13. A year old. It should be stressed that during the work on the draft of this amendment there was a discussion, and we also gathered opinions from a number of institutions. It should be stressed that the majority of the institutions either did not express an opinion or that these opinions were positive. Only in the opinion of the Supreme Court did some comment expressing that the presence of a minor in the courtroom might make it difficult to hold a hearing. I would like to stress that during the work on the proposal for this amendment, in principle all parliamentary clubs supported this initiative. Also during the discussion with the representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office, we considered that this amendment would have a positive impact on minors whose participation in the hearings would be educational. This may have a positive impact on the legal awareness of minors, the way in which the hearing is conducted, the approximation of the legal provisions, the approximation of justice to minors in general. In conclusion, since the opinion of the Minister of Justice was positive here and other institutions such as the Supreme Administrative Court or the National Council of the Court of Justice did not make any comments here, the committee, in principle unanimously, with one abstention, considered this amendment to be justified, the Parliamentary Law and Justice Club supports the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u95	Thank you, too. Please take the floor of Mr Zdzisław Gawlik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before I refer to this law, Minister, I would like to mention that when it comes to the previous act, you are referring to the primacy of the safety of trading and, at the same time, in your statement, you are talking about a limited liability company for gold. Capital was an indication of something, which means there are some consequences, or maybe not. On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to refer to the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and the Law on proceedings before the administrative courts of the Senate project. The proposed law gives minors the opportunity to participate as a public in public meetings of open administrative courts and civil courts. Of course, the possibility of a minor taking part in such a hearing as an audience depends on the decision of the judge and it should be assumed that this decision of the chairman will be a consequence of the content of the case. The content of the case will be a decisive factor in the possible consent to the participation of the minor in the proceedings. The President's agreement seems to eliminate any risk associated with the danger associated with the participation of a minor in such matters. Why should we support such solutions, such proposals? They certainly pursue educational goals, and they also have a preventive function. First of all, there are some solutions in terms of proceedings under Polish law in the field of civil law, administrative law and criminal law. Secondly, a minor natural person up to the age of 13 has no delicacy. Over the age of 13, this delicacy has this ability. Those who have completed 13. Year of age, they have limited legal capacity and thus participate to a limited extent in civil law trade. I think it is very important to see that civil law is a specific law of everyday life that accompanies each of us, every man from birth to death. The earlier this education, this knowledge of civil law will be downloaded by the minor, the more his decisions, I think, will be more appropriate, because it is probably best to learn from other people's mistakes rather than to make them themselves. Hence, the proposed act deserves support and the Civic Platform Club is in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u97	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Chrobak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are now at the heart of the discussion about the justice system. I am not surprised that it does not arouse any greater interest outside the parties to the dispute - the Ministry of Justice and certain judicial communities, since the average citizen has no idea what the ordinary court hearing is like. What might he know in such a situation about the systemic issues related to the functioning of the KRS, the administrative division of the courts, the location of their presidents or directors? We need to start building citizens' knowledge of the justice system. We need to start from scratch, which is to educate young people, and an important part of this education is to enable these young people to visit the courtroom. Well, today could be a little bit of a problem, because we have a protest of the judges, or rather of the presidents and members of the KRS in defense of their son, which is to announce a break in the trial. Everyone sees, ladies and gentlemen, what is the state of citizens' knowledge of the laws and mechanisms of action of the state. There's a huge deficit here that's deeper than that. This is due to the lack of law lessons, which should accompany students already in the last primary school classes and gain intensity in high school. It is rare that students go to the courtroom for educational purposes to see that this is a completely different reality than in popular programs. In our view, young citizens should be given the opportunity to learn how power works. If you can visit the centres of the legislative authority - the Sejm and the Senate or the executive - e.g. The Presidential Palace should also have access to the third power and watch closely how justice is done. This may even be some kind of shock, because so far we have learned about the trial from Anna Maria Wesołowska's program. As far as this knowledge is concerned, one who visits the Polish court can see that a simple matter does not end in 40 minutes - or should - but it lasts for months or even years. In order to build the authority of the profession, whether it's a judge or a prosecutor, in order for these professions to be, as with our Western neighbours, widely valued and respected, we need to start from scratch. And it should be emphasized that this is about building authority, not of any corporation, but of the authority of the state authority, which is also exercised in courts. The Senacki project in some small but important part of this postulate is realized. We must also bear this in mind in the discussion that is underway today, and we should remember this first of all by its participants, that the courts are neither political prey nor a corporation. This is nothing more than a state power that should serve its citizens. I would like to draw attention here once again to the arguments which strengthen our support for the project. It is important to remember that in Polish civil law, when the age of 13 is over, the ability to act is acquired. Thus, a 13-year-old may, taking into account certain limitations, be a party to the trial, a 17-year-old may, in turn, be charged with criminal prosecution. In all proceedings, minors must have witness status. So why not the audience? In conclusion, Mr. Marshal, we have here a small step that opens the door for legal education for young people. Little - I emphasize - step. Several months ago, the association of judges, the Iustitia, conducted an education for children, so-called. It's a first aid kit. Prosecutors from the Trade Union of Prosecutors and Workers of the Public Prosecutor's Office have also carried out legal education activities for young people on several occasions, teaching law in high school and middle school. However, these were actions by ordinary, linear judges and prosecutors who see such a need. I must tell you on this occasion that these actions have been met with the enthusiasm of young people. These are things. The opportunity to discuss with the real prosecutor or judge about the Arkans of this service. It is time for such a system legal kit to finally prepare the Polish state. Today, this country is actually educating legal illiterate people. I look forward to further action in this area, in particular on the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Education, that, once the functional reform of the judiciary has been dealt with, the public, and especially young citizens, will apply such an educational first aid kit. The Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u99	Thank you. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, please. There is no Member. In that case, Mr Ireneus will gain. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts, prints no. 1248 and 1453. The draft envisages an amendment to the article. 152 Code of Civil Procedure and Art. 95 Law on proceedings before administrative courts in so far as it is necessary to allow minors to participate as public at open court meetings, subject to authorisation from the chairman of the formation of the court. In the part concerning judicial proceedings, the amendment is the implementation of the request made in the petition of the Republic of Poland to the Senate on 21 March 2016. It is worth pointing out here that during this term of office of the Sejm projects are increasingly appearing to implement proposals included in petitions submitted by citizens and non-governmental organisations. This should be welcomed because it demonstrates the social activity of citizens and their serious treatment, in this case by the legislative authority, which has a positive impact on confidence in Parliament's work. As I pointed out in my speech at the first reading of the bill, the Circle of Poselskie Free and Solidarni positively refers to the submitted project, which was adopted by the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification with minor drafting amendments. It is undoubtedly appropriate to agree with the petitioner that the participation of minors in public meetings will have educational value for them. This argument is also raised by many representatives of the legal community. With regard to the statement of my honourable predecessor, I would like to draw attention to the voice known more widely in public space from the media programme of Judge Anna Maria Wesołowska, who, in fact, in such a convention the common law procedure, but nevertheless, popularizes the knowledge of judicial proceedings and the intricacies involved, and who often invited young people to court. In one statement, she stated that: the courtroom is an excellent school of life, the cheapest preventive action in terms of the crime of young people. In court, young people learn from other people's mistakes. The presence of the public, including minors, is also beneficial for judges who are better prepared for the hearings and try to speak in a more understandable way. It is also worth noting that since 1998 the provision on the participation of minors in meetings with the agreement of the chairman of the formation of the court has been in force in the criminal procedure. That's what Art talks about. Article 356 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides that the President may authorise the presence of minors at the trial. It seems that, since this type of regulation unreservedly operates in a criminal procedure, it is all the more appropriate for it to also appear in a civil and judicial procedure. In my opinion, there is no danger of breaching the rights of the parties as to privacy or any information which the parties would not like to inform more about, since the decision to allow the minor to participate as a public at the hearing will always be the responsibility of the President, who will ensure that the proceedings are conducted as a whole. It welcomes the fact that legal education activities, including in particular legal education of children and young people, undertaken by the Ministry of Justice and also by courts, are being carried out on an increasing scale every year. This is demonstrated by the data presented on the website of the Ministry of Justice, where on the following page: Legal education can be consulted on the implementation of legal education tasks in regional and district courts for 2016 and on plans for 2017. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project deserves the approval and Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the proposed bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u101	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House want to go on the list? If not, I would like to ask Mr Maciej Masłowski for a question. There's no envoy. This is Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My doubts are not about administrative proceedings. When the content of the case concerns conflicts between the parents of a child, rules on the granting of childcare after possible divorce of the parents or actions taken against the welfare of the child, the problem of the child's presence during the hearing becomes particularly sensitive. Please confirm that, in special cases, the presence of the child at the trial will require a judge's decision. However, I have no doubt about the educational significance of the presence of minors in court proceedings in administrative courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u103	Thank you. And Mr Jacek Tomczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u104	It seems that the project is, of course, well-founded and its intentions are clear and clear. I would just like to ask the question: What does it look like, such solutions in other countries of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u105	Thank you very much. You have arrived, sir. That's a question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u106	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Supreme Court pointed out that, in the opinion of psychologists, direct contact between the child and the court may be a traumatic experience for him, even in cases where the child is not a participant in the proceedings. Would it not be wise, therefore, to tighten up the fact that a minor in a courtroom should be taken care of by an adult guardian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u107	Thank you. In that case, I would ask the Minister to reply, because the list of votes has been exhausted. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll answer your questions. Mrs Tomaszewska asks about specific categories of cases, in particular family matters. I think that the danger that you rightly point to is not the case, because both the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code and the Rules of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts guarantee recognition of cases of a particular nature at closed doors, i.e. without the participation of the public. So this, of course, is a matter of judging the judge. Moreover, in civil proceedings, in this area where the honourable Member rightly points out, cases for divorce and separation are officially recognised at the closed doors, i.e. those in which circumstances from private and family life may most often arise, or which threaten morality. It's an art. 427 Code of Civil Procedure. In other custody cases concerning minors, the court shall, of its own motion, administer the entire sitting or part of it at the closed door if the benefit of the minor is against public recognition of the case. And that's the basic determinant. It's an art. 575 Code of Civil Procedure. So I think that the risks that you point to are not taking place. With regard to Mr Tomczak's question on other countries of the European Union, how this issue is dealt with, we did not, of course, examine them all, but we have examined a few. For example, in Slovenia it is unacceptable for minors to be present at hearings, in Lithuania it is permissible for minors over 16 years of age. However, the presence of minors in France, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Malta is permitted without any age restrictions. There is no regulation, which means that it is also in principle permissible for minors to be present at hearings in Germany and Portugal. With regard to Mr Masłowski's question, whether it would be inappropriate to provide for minors, children of adults during the hearing, we have of course wondered about this idea, there has already been this doubt, but ultimately the government has taken the view that there is no need to do so. It will always be the judge's assessment whether, due to the nature of the case, the age of those who wish to participate will be acceptable or not. The introduction of such a criterion of adult care would in fact lead to a restriction on access to the real work of the court, because such care could not always be provided. This would, of course, also be a question of legitimacy, checking, some procedures, we would need to establish procedures. And rightly Mrs Chrobak mentioned that it was advisable for young people to get acquainted in a free way, with certain limitations, of course, which I was talking about, with the real work of the courts, not with what is presented as the work of the court on the TV talk show. Because it can only be for the benefit of these young people when they grow up and find themselves in a court of law, they won't be surprised, they'll really know how the third power works. So that we didn't want to restrict the Code of Criminal Procedure here. They're not here today. No one's reporting any problems because of it. Thank you very much. And I would like to thank all the representatives of Parliament, all the clubs and circles very warmly for the fact that this law has also succeeded, despite political divisions, in reaching an agreement, because it is such a pro-Citizen change and it is very good that from time to time such an agreement is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the report of the Senate draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts, print Nos 1248 and 1453. The aim of this project is to allow minors to participate in open court meetings. In any event, the court's consent to the participation of a minor would be necessary. The draft implements the petition submitted to the Senate in March 2016. The petitioner pointed out that, in the current legal state, it is authorised, with the President's consent, to the presence of minors in the courtroom only in criminal proceedings. However, there are many issues that are important to the community in the courts and the observation of public meetings would have educational advantages and would prepare minors to participate actively in public life. In the opinion of the draftsman, such a solution ensures the freedom of decision of the chairman of the formation of the court, who will take an individual decision, taking into account inter alia. the smooth course of the meeting or the possible demoralisation of the minor by the content presented during the meeting. The provision is also intended to allow parents and children with whom there is no other care to enter the courtroom, e.g. The parent shall take part in the hearing as a party or as a witness. According to the draft, the authorisation will be granted in the form of an order from which it will have recourse to the court of judgment. The provisions on the authorisation of a minor to participate in a public hearing issued outside the hearing will be open to challenge, but the chairman may revoke or amend them if the circumstances of the case change. Giving minors the right to be present in public at public hearings in civil proceedings before a general court and in administrative matters decided by an administrative court shall be fully supported by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. On the other hand, the Supreme Court, in its opinion, takes the view that children's access to court should be restricted for their benefit. In addition, the presence of children in the courtroom undermines the seriousness of the court and may affect the quality of the explanations or testimony of the parent. According to the Supreme Court, a minor should have access to the courtroom after a certain age, as an example of 16 years of age. High Izbo! In our view, allowing minors to attend court meetings will strengthen the subjectivity of children, enabling them to participate actively in public life, to gain knowledge and experience in civil and administrative matters. It will also help to shape respect for the law and strengthen the sense of justice in children. The proposed change is the implementation of the right of the child to information, which is essential to meet the educational needs, the school obligation or the preparation of the child for an active life in civil society. Referring to the Supreme Court's arguments regarding the protection of the child's well-being: we believe that the child's well-being will be sufficiently protected by a view of the President's judgment, which will each issue a decision on the entry of minors into the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u111	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. High Izbo! In that case, since there is no rapporteur for the next point, I am announcing a five-minute technical break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 30 hours 12 min 42]] I'm reopening the session. After consulting the Seniors Convention, Marshal of the Sejm decided to delete from the agenda the present meeting of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Health Commission on the draft government law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws, prints No. 1319 and 1488. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the draft parliamentary law amending the Fire Protection Act (prints 1412 and 1448). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! At its meeting on 4 April, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs examined the draft law amending the Fire Protection Act, print No 1412. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading on 22 March. During the committee meeting, all the amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau of the Sejm were welcomed by the committee and accepted. The Parliamentary amendment, which was adopted in Article, was also accepted. 1 amending law relating to Article. 38 point 1 of the amended Act changed the terms "the actual needs of fire protection units" to the words "the legitimate needs of fire protection units." The draft was given a positive opinion by a majority of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u113	Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I ask you to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The amendment of the Fire Protection Act introduces a slight change, which in practice consists of the fact that funds directed to voluntary fire and State Fire Departments, which have so far been directed directly from insurance companies to the account of the head of the voluntary fire department, will be directed in the same amount through the State Fire Service. Of course, these measures will be directed upon request and requests should be justified. The changing reality in our country causes that the only practical institution, the State Fire Department, has a full and accurate understanding of the needs of fire protection. Unlike the voluntary fire department, it has full knowledge of both needs, modern fire protection measures and territorial needs throughout the country. We therefore believe that the State Fire Department will be much more effective in transferring resources for fire protection where they are actually needed. One such example, which I would like to mention here, concerns, for example, the network of motorways, national roads or industrial plants that are not located where there are strong traditions of voluntary firefighters or well developed volunteer firefighters, but where there is an economic need. And here the State Fire Department has the greatest knowledge. All the doubts raised in the discussion that the money will be taken from voluntary firefighters are so impossible that we legally guarantee that the same amount will be passed on to the voluntary fire brigade, so it cannot be reduced and partially left in other institutions or in the State Fire Department. This amount will be directed to the voluntary fire department in its entirety. Nor do I get the arguments that you presented to me by the president of the voluntary fire department that until now - I will quote here - it was easy to take money. A number of other associations in Poland also operate on the basis that they receive public funds on request, a reasoned request. That argument is not a hit argument for me. I also looked at all the arguments raised, that this is, for example. There will be no way to raise funds for young people. Here, according to my knowledge, on the basis of contact with the State Fire Department, with the Chief, based on the articles of the Fire Protection Act, it should be clearly stated that money directed through the State Fire Department, coming from the percentage of fire insurance, will be possible to train young people. These are false arguments. You will also be able to obtain combat uniforms, and you will also be able to obtain youth uniforms. These are a little different types of uniforms - for young people. On this occasion it is worth noting that the voluntary fire department can also raise funds from local governments - and this is also the case - it can raise funds from companies and institutions, companies of the State Treasury, local government companies and institutions, private companies and other associations, so this is not the only source of funding for voluntary fire services. It often appears that in many towns these guards are depending on the involvement of the local government, not the State Fire Service, in very good condition. What I'm saying is that this is not the only source of funding for voluntary firefighters. Finally, I would also like to stress that in my experience as a self-government officer at many levels there is one fact: cooperation between voluntary firefighters and the State Firefighter is good. I can't remember from my entire professional life that this cooperation is bad. On the contrary, she's good. It is not enough, often, that the officers of the State Fire Service, after the completion of their mission, remain in volunteer firefighters, serving their knowledge. It is often the case that the commander of the State Fire Service, such as the district police, then for many years volunteered in the voluntary fire department. So I don't assume here - and I say this consciously in front of you, Chief, with you, General Leszek Suski - that this cooperation would be bad. I can't imagine that now the State Fire Department would cut off funding for a voluntary firefighter. This was not our intention, and this is, in my opinion, an absurd argument. I don't see any reason why the State Fire Department would just stop working with a voluntary fire department because that would be to the detriment of fire protection. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary club, I would like to support once again [[♪ The bell ♪]] the draft law in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u115	Thank you, sir. And Mr Mark Wójcik, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In his speech as rapporteur, he was very laconic about the project, and in his club speech he described this change as a small one. You are wrong, Mr President. This is a fundamental change. This is the centralization of money that has so far been spent on the fire protection of the population. This is a completely unnecessary move. You needlessly deprive the union of voluntary firefighters of the impact on the distribution of this money. What is more, I think it would be worthwhile in the Sejm to have a debate on this subject, not just to let the High House know what the committee's work was like - and let me remind you that the first reading was just during the committee meeting. Unfortunately, this is the next stage of the fight between the PiS and the voluntary fire department. Let me remind you that this is a relationship that brings together 16,000. TSOs in the country. These units are in fact the basic tools of action and fire protection for the population. This is the next stage of the fight between PiS and the union, because the government has already deprived the voluntary fire department of its influence on the distribution of the budget money to be transferred to the TSOs. Now the government, I mean the Members of the PiS, because it was the Members of the PiS who submitted this project, in fact taking over the funds that supported the TSOs and were transferred by insurance companies. This happens without any substantive reasons. The PiS destroys the fire protection system, a system that has proven itself in the last 20 years, a system that has proven itself not only during natural disasters, but above all during the ongoing activities of voluntary firefighters, and which keeps Poles' lives and property safe every day. High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I request that this project be rejected at second reading. We will certainly not help you to dismantle a well-functioning system that allows for fire protection and strengthens the safety of Poles. Moreover, the changes you are proposing - those that the government introduced earlier, and those that are being introduced by this law - are changes that implement a completely different philosophy than the philosophy of the Civic Platform. That's why I'm announcing today that after winning the election, [[Joy in the Chamber]] We will restore the volunteer fire support system to allow for a rapid response to the actual needs of the CSR units. Mr. Chairman, I apologize for such an uproar, he said, here he has spoken so much that Mr. Leszek... This law is being implemented precisely so that the Members of the Law and Justice Council and the General can determine which units of TSOs will receive support, completely disregarding the relationship which brings together 16 000. individuals and who have worked very well for the last 20 years and have a great deal of knowledge about citizens' security needs. As I said, we are proposing to reject this project and in the future we will take steps to make this state of affairs that you are unfortunately spoiling, to correct. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u117	Mr Józef Brynus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I just can't get over Mr. Wójcik's witty speech... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...but I'll just try to tell you what we think about this proposed bill. The idea of a solution, as we've heard, is to impose an obligation on insurers to pass on 10% the sum of the proceeds obtained from compulsory fire insurance for fire protection purposes. This amount would be entirely available to the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Department. This solution changes the current state of affairs, in which two entities decide on the allocation of the fire protection funds obtained for this purpose: the Chief of State Fire Department and the General Board of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards. In the applicant's view, this results in the loss of responsibility for the state of fire protection and operational subordinates in the field and the duplication of decisions as to the quantity and type of equipment purchased. According to most firefighters, volunteers and even professionals, the reason for this is different. They believe that under the banner of rationalising expenditure there is a political revolution based on voluntary firefighters, and that is not the case. You can't accuse a volunteer firefighter of wasting money on fire protection. Often they finance, also through various actions, the purchase of the necessary equipment, means of transport, combat and parade uniforms, because firefighters should also look, which also aims to obtain young adepts for this responsible service. When we look at the functioning of the TSOs, we need to see in addition to their actual participation in the prevention and defence system against various natural disasters also other activities of volunteer firefighters. There is a serious concern that no one will give them funds for this activity. This is the position of many voluntary fire departments in Poland, especially those regions where cooperation between the State Fire Service and the voluntary fire department, as well as cooperation between CSR and local authorities, cooperation between various local actors with CSR was good. The proposed new system of financial assistance will keep these relations going and introduce public fuss. If Law and Justice are really about eliminating PSL from the political stage, then it can use another instrument. After all, we heard from the Seym's Speaker in the framework of the so-called. an audit of an innumerable number of issues during the PO-PSL governments and announcements to investigate them, on the settlement of whistleblowers from this agreement. So? Nothing. We also have cases of political alliances of PiS and PSL at county level. So it is really about using all the resources available to exercise power, and that at the expense of society, well. Is taking funds to the General Board of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards a more effective means of weakening the PSL than proving him responsible for the previous coalition? Unfortunately, the proposed act of PiS enters another field of struggle, this time fighting against society, its civil initiatives and attitudes, and wants to destroy the positive traditions of voluntary service of firefighters for the Polish society built for decades. The role of firefighters volunteers is not only to participate in the national rescue and fire-fighting system by specialised CSR units, but also to participate in less specialised interventions, which require not only professional equipment, highly qualified volunteer firefighters, but also their heart. It is also a contribution to creating a daily and unusual posture of service, for which money is also needed, and this often escapes the managers of funds. There's one more important thing that we need to talk about here. This is a matter of volunteer firefighters who have suffered serious health damage or have become crippled as a result of training, combat and other interventions. These people often remain without any institutional help. It's only because of your friends, e.g. friends from Izdebnik, Łaśnica and Paszkówka in the district of Wadowice, as well as many other places that cannot be mentioned can live at a minimum existential level. The Kukiz Club15 proposes some system solutions in this respect. Let's hope they're being processed. Due to the comments I made above, Kukiz15 is opposed to such changes in the system of financing voluntary firefighters in Poland, which is proposed in the procedated act. There will not be any money from her, and it may not be necessary to antagonize one of the environments responsible for the safety of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchon, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Fire Protection Act following the presentation of a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. These are 1412 and 1448 prints. High Izbo! Dear Friends! The blade of the sword, which is the bill tabled by the PiS Members, is aimed directly at the selfless service of many hundreds of thousands of volunteer firefighters to improve the security of their fellow citizens. In essence, the proposal concerns the amendment of the Article. 38 and Article 38 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Currently, these articles require insurance companies to transfer 10% the sum of the proceeds obtained from the compulsory fire insurance for fire protection purposes and specify how these funds are to be distributed in such a way that half of the funds transferred are available to the Chief of the State Fire Service and the other half to the General Board of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland. Independently of the authorising officer, the measures may be transferred only for the purpose of fire protection and detailed rules for the allocation of measures have been defined by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs by means of a regulation of 2 June 1999. You have to say it straight: it works well. Unfortunately, PiS MEPs, striking at volunteer firefighters, want to change this matter and an effective system. In turn, the change will consist in the fact that from the moment of entry into force of the procedated provisions on the distribution of funds will be decided exclusively and personally by the chief commander of the State Fire Service. This wrong proposal, I have already said it, should be a clear and clear assessment. Firstly, this bill is a very strong and clear expression of distrust towards hundreds of thousands of volunteer firefighters who perform their selfless service to improve the security of their fellow citizens. The statutory powers for the allocation of funds which were intended, which should be stressed, have been taken away only for the purpose of fire protection, i.e. they could not be spent on other purposes. They have been spent in a way that takes into account the needs of our local homelands, our cities, our villages, our villages. This is the project that needs to be assessed very negatively. The day when this scandalous bill will be passed will be another black day when the PiS will show that it has the selfless service of volunteer firefighters for common security. Secondly, this is another step towards centralising the state. It is an expression of blind faith in the fact that PiS politicians who are sitting in Warsaw know better what citizens need throughout Poland. It is ignoring the needs of local countries and the right to make them. Moreover, the proposed way of centralising the allocation of funds raises a clear concern in the context of the experience of the PiS governments so far that the distribution of these funds will be determined by a political factor rather than a substantive one. Thirdly, the changes are carried out within a year, which is obviously confusing with plans that have so far been drawn up on the basis of existing legislation. It's like the law's working backwards. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that this law tabled by the PiS Members is the blade of the sword aimed directly at the selfless service of many hundreds of thousands of volunteer firefighters to improve the security of their fellow citizens. This is not the case and there will be no modern consent. In view of the above, the Posel Club The modern proposal to reject the bill at second reading, as we did at first reading. If we reject our proposal, we make amendments. The adoption of these amendments will mean that decisions on how funds are spent will continue to be made by those who are selflessly concerned about our security, namely the voluntary firefighters. I encourage the High House to do so regardless of the party indications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr President said how it was in the committee, but he forgot to mention the very important words in this discussion, the words of Mr Edward Sarka, who said: Shame on you. And he's ashamed of his piss buddies who signed the bill. He had the courage to say clearly that this was an unworthy bill. Keep that in mind, somebody's gonna charge you for this kind of action. You introduce communism into Poland. You want to decide everything: spending money, what people have to do, how they're supposed to think. There isn't. Once we have overthrown communism and we will also overthrow your communism. So don't laugh when you hear that you're going to give up power because you're going to give it back faster than you think. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What about setting up a word?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u123	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, you are welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish People's Party on the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Fire Protection Act. I'm taking the floor in a fireman's uniform. In this uniform, in which the firefighters volunteered at all patriotic celebrations, during the holidays, and not further, as a few days ago, they kept watch at the tomb of the Lord during Easter. It's also the uniform in which firefighters performed their beautiful firefighter's service during World Youth Days. That's the uniform, Minister, which you took the money for, considering that the volunteer firefighters would have enough working suits. Soon it turned out that you didn't have enough of that either. You went further by taking the funding for the barracks uniform. This is the uniform in which firefighters practice and train, preparing to carry out firefighters' duties. According to this authority, it is an expression of respect for the firemen's brothers. We volunteer firefighters aren't about that kind of respect. We, firefighters volunteers, thank you for your kindness and kindness PiS-owska. I'm sure you'll get a red card for such kindness from the volunteer firefighters. The Association of Voluntary Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland has written a beautiful card in the history of the Polish state, not only of Polish fire. Regardless of politics, he served and served people and Poland. Volunteer firefighters never followed politics, saving lives and property. Changes in the rules for financing voluntary firefighters will certainly not improve the safety of citizens, but on the contrary will significantly reduce security. This is the introduction of Eastern systems and Eastern standards, where the state decides everything. The solutions so far have been very successful both in emergency and rescue practice - natural disasters, as it is possible to respond quickly to the needs of TSOs and environments that have been affected by the element. When a flood comes, a storm or even a winter in April, just like it does in the south of the country, firefighters are always at the station. They can organize quickly, they have experience in fighting the elements, they know how to help effectively. The proposed changes are incompatible in many places with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, because they violate the principle of protection of rights rightly acquired, they violate the principle of citizens' trust in the state. These solutions are implemented during the year and violate the principle of non-retroactivity. They violate the principle of subsidiarity and the fundamental right of citizens to join local associations. Proposals in the bill violate the sovereignty of the firefighter's government. In fact, the bill is an anti-fire and anti-Polish project. Today, from this place, I address all the Members and Members, but above all the members of the Parliamentary Firefighters' Team: have the courage and honor to oppose such a bad bill. Volunteer firefighters were created during the time of the partitions, and against the will of the conquerors they joined Poles, building a sense of community and statehood. It was the killers who did not allow the establishment of the CSR union, because this could pose a threat to their countries. Do you want to go the same way as the possessors? The bill you're proposing kills firefighter self-government. And one more thing: anyone who tries to divide the firefighters of the State Fire and Volunteer Firefighters doesn't work for the benefit of the state. This is exactly the same thing as dividing society into the better ones and the worse ones. In fact, this bill is being stripped of the dignity of volunteer firefighters. Firefighters are people of various political views, from different backgrounds, but they have one thing in common - concern for another man and faithfulness to the firefighter's message: God for glory, people for good. Voluntary firefighters in many local communities play a very important preventive role, organize social life, cooperate with schools, and all of this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to destroy it. You're taking the possibility of youth fire teams, hitting culture, reducing resources to maintain fire-fighting wind orchestras, so how are we supposed to raise and train the next generation of volunteer firefighters? We are being roused by firefighters and the words of the Chief of State Fire Department, who, during the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, stated that training of volunteer firefighters in the field of medical assistance is not part of combat training. Minister, we, firefighters of volunteers, are men of honor, therefore we will not cut confetti and throw it at your feet, but if you understand your mistake and wish to sprinkle your head with ashes, we will deliver the ashes fairly, in a firefight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u125	Thank you, sir, for both ashes...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u126	My words are hard, Minister... Literally 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u127	30 seconds? You've been out of time a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u128	My words are hard, but true. I've been working with my CSR buddies too long, alone as a volunteer firefighter for 32 years...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u129	Okay, sir, we thank you very much for this expressive and emphasic speech, but time has passed. Thank you kindly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u130	I'm just gonna bring up the words... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... The Holy Father: Fires of gastronomy, not of spirit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u131	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Is any of the other ladies and gentlemen of the House... [[I am.]] I ask Mr Paweł Bańkowski to ask a question. One and a half minutes to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u132	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The real purpose of this bill was betrayed here by President Czartoryski. Perhaps the idea is for law and justice politicians to be able, with Mr Leszek from the PSP, to determine which TSOs will receive the funds and how much. The firefighters at the CSR have issued a yellow card to PiS politicians. Tonight, probably soon, they're gonna give you a red one. In the explanatory memorandum of the Act, you write that this project will allow rational and efficient spending of funds for fire protection purposes. I have the following question for the applicants: Was the current regulation an obstacle to rational and efficient spending of funds for fire protection purposes? And if so, what was the obstacle? Was the current regulation an obstacle to the even support of fire protection units? If so, what was the problem? In view of the fact that the current law has been in force since 10 August 1997, I ask you to indicate whether, as from 10 August 1997, there has been an irrational or inefficient spending of the financial resources concerned and, if so, what was the amount of these infringements each year. If any of the infringements referred to above have been confirmed by the decisions of the competent authorities, courts or control bodies, e.g. The Supreme Board of Control? In case of decisions taken by government administrations or control bodies, please indicate the competent authorities or institutions, the signatures and dates of such specific decisions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there any summary studies on the findings or results of the checks?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u133	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u134	And please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u135	And I would like to ask Mr Norbert Obrick's question. There's no envoy? This is Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The reformers from the PiS want to make amends in their own way again. It's not funny. [[But you're laughing.]] Already last year, you made some changes to the allocation of funds to TSOs and it didn't improve anything, and some units were injured. I am a member of the Parliamentary Firefighters' Team, president of the municipal board of TSOs in one of the Żywiec communes, member of the presidium of the district board in Żywiec. There's always a problem, because there's always not enough money for volunteers. I inform the authors of the project that firefighters combine not political preferences, but a mission to save people in need. There are great fears that the distribution of funds by the Chief of State Fire Department, and not by the head of volunteer firefighters, will result in injustice because the party key will work again. There will be no money for combat and gala uniforms, training, youth work, tournaments, competitions and promotion of the knowledge of fire-fighting among young people. You weaken the sovereignty of the association, which is the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland, its importance and prestige. Did the authors of the project ever get acquainted with the position of the sovereign, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You mean volunteer firefighters, about change? 'Cause I'm having big doubts. Why hasn't there been a public consultation, not even discussed in the Parliamentary Firefighters' Team? Shame on you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u137	Mr Maciej Masłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u138	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm sure I can fit in time. Well, I have a question to the applicant: What objections does the legislator make regarding the functioning of the General Board of the Association of Volunteers of the Republic of Poland, that he decides to centralize the proceeds from insurance companies? The draft states that only the Minister responsible for Home Affairs will determine, by means of a regulation, how and how the appropriations referred to in paragraph 1 are to be distributed. 1. This means that we are receiving funding from voluntary firefighters, and only in the future will the Minister decide on the procedure for transferring funds to the TSOs. We don't know what the rules are, which means we're trading the current system for a riddle. So do we have a plan or do we just have to trust the government? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u139	Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The basic arguments put forward by the State Fire Commissioner who presented the draft at the committee meeting were that it would be rational and effective to spend the funds for fire protection only after these changes have been introduced. The commander also said that these changes would result in an effective control of the actual use of funds for the purchase of equipment and equipment by individual individuals. Continuing, he talked about irregularities that were supposed to occur in the distribution of funds which were later reportedly uncontrolledly spent. He spoke very clearly about this, and we asked during the committee's meeting about the source of knowledge about these irregularities, whether they are the result or the result of the checks carried out. And so, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the Chief has proudly presented to us the internet firefighters' entries that he has read in his online firefighters' forums, allegedly confirming it. And they, these entries, are supposed to be the strongest argument that has become the foundation of the changes being made. Minister, don't you think the chief in his speech embarrassed the position he's taking? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u141	Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I just wanted to get back to the infringement issue. Well, the chief at our meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs was quite flowery about what he found on the Internet. At that time, during the meeting of this committee, I asked whether these cases of infringements in connection with the distribution of funds that you know, the chief was kind enough to report to the relevant authorities. That's the way it's gonna be. If someone has information about a violation, he does not only talk about it at a committee meeting to justify a curiosity change of law in some way, he only reports a proper report to the prosecutor's office. Therefore, I have a request that the Chief responds directly: report or not, male, yes or no. The second thing is to determine the scope of physical purchases. We didn't get an answer either, if that's a problem. Because from this, from the information I have, it follows that meetings of TSOs and PSPs at the level of e.g. the county, the commune is held, there is a conversation, there is the establishment of some common scope of action. I don't know how you have information that there are problems. Maybe it's just the result of too long hanging out in the office. Maybe you need to go to the outskirts, so-called. the outskirts, probably seen from Warsaw, and just talk about it in the counties? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the third question. Who's the author of the ideas? Is it that this is a dictation of the executive authority over the legislative authority? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u143	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's been a lot of talk on the board about this bill. Most people spoke very critically because we are giving you the opportunity to decide on the spending of this money on a good case, but we do not know exactly what the criteria will be for the distribution of this money. [[It's legal.]] It was also mentioned, as Mr Suchoń mentioned, that so far it was also so that this money was not so spent on itself that someone had the idea that it was for this or for this. There have been meetings between the State Fire Department and the voluntary fire department and they have determined what is really the most important need and what this money should be allocated to. I wonder if, in fact, this distribution by your money will not be conditioned by political considerations, that those who really favor you will receive money, and those who are not so delighted with your governments will not receive it. What are the criteria? I would also repeat my request to make it clear what are the objections to the current system. Are there really such irregularities that this system needs to be turned upside down? So far we have received no message, no concrete example that would justify [[♪ The bell ♪]] That sort of thing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u145	Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u146	I would like to ask you, General Leszek Suski, what regulations the State Fire Department uses to decide what purposes resources can be spent on, because there is also a lot of ignorance hidden in all these questions I have heard so far. For what purposes can funds be used? I would like the general to answer precisely, because I also think there is a great deal of ignorance, Members and Members. Will the training of young people be able to be financed by these measures, or will it not be able to be financed? Will combat uniforms be able to be financed, or can they not be financed? Will the youth uniforms, the youth fire uniforms -- they're a little different from the uniforms for ordinary firefighters -- they can be financed, can't they be financed? I would also like the general to answer very precisely, because I also see that there is a great lack of knowledge about this, what with these medical trainings, whether there will be a disaster now and there will be a ban on medical training, as I understand here, whether these medical trainings will be able to take place in the manner they are taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u147	Thank you very much. And Mr Stefan Rometki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u148	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! On 6 September 2016, the Poselski Kukiz Club submitted a draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The project concerns the introduction of an allowance to the pension for voluntary fire workers of PLN 20 for each year of their active service. On 20 October 2017, an autocorrection was made - I think this was a mistake in the year - which adapted the draft to the submitted opinions and comments. The draft was submitted for first reading at the Sejm meeting on 31 January 2017 and received the position of the Government. I ask you to answer the question: Why are our social projects kept in the freezer? We are all aware that voluntary firefighters are a very important part of public service. And I wonder why you don't want to appreciate people who voluntarily and voluntarily help other people. Why don't you want to appreciate volunteer firefighters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u149	Thank you. And Mr Piotr Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u150	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Chief! High Izbo! I have been wearing a fireman's volunteer uniform for over 30 years, Mr Sosnowski, Minister, and I have never been ashamed of this uniform. I always respect volunteer firefighters, as well as firefighters' signs or flags of volunteer firefighters, all of them. And an expression of that, I think, of a good relationship with the firefighters was last Monday. I was visited at home by 10 firefighters, thanking me for your cooperation and celebrating the bellies of Monday. And surprisingly, none of those units visiting me at home mentioned a piece of paper, not even a yellow card with them. But these yellow cards actually appeared on social profiles. And in my case, in my district, such a yellow card - unfortunately, there are already party colors here, ladies and gentlemen - sent to me by subterranean folks. This is from my social profile, where the folks of the Poddębicki district direct yellow cards to the parliamentarian. I understand in a way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These political actions of the folks, but I consulted with the county board of TSOs in my district. This action is absolutely not carried out. Why? Because the folks in the Poddębicki district...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u151	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u152	...on the county board of CSR simply doesn't exist. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u153	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Marek Matuszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! General! High Izbo! When you hear this PSL lamentation, you immediately think you had some interest in the fact that this bill has worked so far. Why are you crying like that? I suspect you've influenced many firefighters through your activists in terms of where the money is spent. I can ask the minister and ask if even if there will be less funding for volunteer firefighters as a result of the entry into force of this new law. And I know there won't be, not even a dollar will lose a firefighter's volunteer. [[Then why do you ask?]] Do you have the nerve to talk about Eastern systems, Eastern solutions? You're the ones who put in these Eastern solutions because you gave them here, and somewhere else where there was no PSL, you didn't give them gold. I can give you examples here, but it's already in the cockroaches, because time is running out. So that I know that this money will be transferred to the guard in a transparent, democratic, appropriate way. [[Transparent.]] And it will be. I know it hurts. It hurts, but your Eastern systems must be finally finished, as you said about this one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A new bill. They were your eastern systems, and now we're fixing it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: But why the nerves?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u155	Thank you, sir. And Mr Edward Sulfur. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Of course, it's a long time to talk about the distribution of funds from insurance companies. But as President of the Regional Board in Małopolska Voivodship, I want to remind those who are more interested in it, that at present the funds that were from insurance companies were divided according to a strictly developed criterion. And I would actually say that they were divided even technically, because the funds we are talking about, from insurance companies, i.e. the planned amount for this year is 20 million PLN - this is what is planned as revenue from insurance companies - they were divided by the number of TSOs in a given voivodeship, in a given district, i.e. 16 200 units divided by... 20 million divided by this number of TSOs. And let's just say that there was a figure of 40,000 in my district of Nowotarski somewhere downstairs. It was according to the number of TSOs. By the individual structure of the entity, they submitted a demand for the purchase of funds by the end of January. And now I have a question about the criteria for allocating these funds. What are they gonna be like? What are these criteria going to look like? Because it's very important. In this context, I can ask, among others. for a case which is crucial, namely medical training, because of this amount [[♪ The bell ♪]] the amount of PLN 3 million allocated to these trainings. External companies do so, and any firefighter who goes into action must have such training if he is to provide professional assistance. Like, among other things, Is this assignment gonna be funded? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u157	Thank you, sir. And I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Kaleta a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u158	Dear Marshal, Minister! General! High Izbo! One must always remember that if one wears a uniform and, while in uniform, speaks certain words, one must always speak them with dignity. It is not possible to bring about a situation such as the fact that the facts are false, where things that do not happen are said. This debate, the debate in the Parliamentary Committees, the responses given by the Minister, the Commissioner, made it clear: the voluntary fire department will not lose a zloty on the proposed solutions and regulations. But the question, ladies and gentlemen, could be very different -- different, because here maybe the rapporteur, Arkadiusz Czartoryski, spoke of Mr Leszek Suski, general, the chief. So we could ask a slightly different question, ladies and gentlemen. Is this money to be transferred in any other way at the moment to a specialist, chief of fire department General Suski, or another chief? We can say, because you were so critical of this speech: not Mr. Leszek, but Mr. Waldek. Is that what this is about? Was that the idea of Mr. Waldek still deciding where the money was going to go, which is a typical, classic politician? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u159	Mr Marek Owa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have no doubt that this is an act of disgrace. and that its sole purpose is to take over individual volunteer firefighters. I'll appeal to my experience. It just so happens - Mr Sulek said just now that he is the head of the Regional Branch of the Association of Volunteers of the Małopolska Voivodship - that I have been a marshal of the Voivodship for the last five years. Don't think that only from the copies of the PZU are funds transferred to the fire department. In Małopolska, we spent over PLN 5 million annually on firehouses, to equip volunteer firefighters, equipment. [[Very good. Very good.]] We have also provided additional funds for cars and European funds. It never occurred to me, never, ever, to set up a committee in which representatives of the voluntary fire department would not participate. I couldn't imagine... [[But that's not the amendment it's about.]] ...to pursue regional policy without the participation of the most interested. [[That's not what the bill's about.]] There's a bill about that, too. [[No, you don't.]] We have always looked at the whole issue, at all the needs, at the fact that the bottom-up representation, because this is how voluntary firefighters are chosen, has an impact on the functioning of their units. And the state has a well-functioning system... [[You don't understand the bill.]] ...you just want to destroy it. You want to take over individual units of volunteer firefighters and assign them to the PiS - just for a moment. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u161	Mr Richard Galla. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! General! High Seym! I, too, am a member of the Bureau of the Regional Branch of Opole Voivodship. I've been one since I was also an MP, but I've been a volunteer firefighter for many years. Let me put it this way: I've already raised two sons, one of whom, through a volunteer firefighter's career, is currently a PSP firefighter. And I can say that with great pride at every meeting with the firefighters I said that I am a member of the Parliamentary Firefighters' Team Bureau, that we have a group of cross-party, super-political firefighters who care about the interests of firefighters. And I regret to say that I had to keep my mouth shut at the last meetings. I just didn't know how to get out of the questions that were presented to me, how to answer certain questions. Today I would really like to hear from you whose project this is. I know that the shortest path is a message path, but I apologize: when I ask Members of the Law and Justice who are on the team, many of them say - this is not our project. So whose project is this? [[Applause]] Are you the Minister, or is this the General's project? How will this project affect the activities of firefighters? I am a non-member, [[♪ The bell ♪]] neither of the political options. I would like to know how we will carry out these tasks, which are the primary tasks of voluntary firefighters. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Minister of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Listening to the club's speeches and the content of the questions, I wondered what else could be said in defence of my interests, what else could be said, what else could be said - please forgive me this word - nonsense can be uttered. And that's how Tuwim reminded me, its wording is probably from a poem by the residents - a good phrase that sounds, it's worth recalling: with layers, there's a terrible nonsense growing. And that's the kind of bullshit you're making in your speeches, you're multiplying. And it's very simple. You defend here, especially this group, which is connected with the union, precisely with the General Board of the Association of Volunteers of the Republic of Poland, its positions, its right to Chapter Act decreed for the association - this is a unique, unusual situation - financial means. What's there to say? PSL defends its political interests. We have avoided the political theme in the discussion of this law, but this is what has been mentioned in the media publications. PSL admitted that the point is that it's afraid to lose its position against volunteer firefighters. I would like to say, sir, that you are wearing a fireman's uniform today. The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator states that the Member acts on behalf of the nation, not in the interest of the lobby, and you act in the interest of the lobby, which is the Chief Executive of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland, but I want to tell you very clearly and very clearly to President Pawlak, who was at the meeting of the committee, that the voluntary firefighters in Poland are 16 200 units, not the President of Pawlak, 16 200 units, and not the Board of Directors of the TSOs. It's estimated differently, but let's say it's about 700,000. Volunteer firefighters, volunteer friends, not manifesting today in the Seym in the uniform of Sosnowski's friend. We really care about these firefighters, we take care of these units and we'll take care of them. The evidence that we care about is clear and obvious, it concerns the facts. Let me remind you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government of Law and Justice increases the resources provided to voluntary firefighters each year. It was you, the PO-PSL coalition, who left in the draft budget for 2015 - PSL did not move then, did not make an amendment to increase these funds - the amount of PLN 32.5 million per TSO unit. We just increased your budget right away... In your draft budget we have found a way to increase to 36 million PLN, for 2017 we have increased by further amounts, there is already 39 million PLN, so it is another 3 million PLN, but we have also added the amounts included in the programme to modernise uniformed services and again in accordance with the Law and Justice programme, as announced several times in committee meetings and here in the Sejm, and in the public debate, and as declared by all Members of Law and Justice, we have included in the programme of modernization of police, Border Guard, Government Protection Office and State Fire Guard units as well. During the 4 years 2017,2020 volunteer units will receive PLN 501 million from this program, PLN 501 million from PLN 9.2 billion for all MMA uniform services. They're gonna be buying new combat cars, about 500 combat vehicles are gonna go to the O.R. units. The equipment will be purchased, renovations will be co-financed, the guards will be modernised. This support will be, only this support will consist in building a uniform, efficient fire protection system and a fire protection system in Poland. These are two lungs that need to breathe evenly in one organism: the State Fire and Volunteer Fire Department, but there must be one entity responsible for making it work, and this entity must be a controlling and accountable entity. This will be the organ, which is the chief of state fire department. High Sejm, if anyone knows such a solution, please show, please say - to all those who are protesting and lamenting today. There is no known solution in other areas where the law would have decreed the transfer of funds to a specific association. The only association such as this is the union, or actually the General Board of the Association of Volunteers of the Republic of Poland. You're saying it's some kind of assassination attempt on something important in democracy. That's the psychic solution, that's the unheard of solution, that's the solution. It's undefensible, and you're defending it. You're talking about centralization, and isn't the CSR board a central institution? It's something local, it's something that's scattered across individuals? No, you're just a central body of the association, and you're afraid of losing your influence right now, and not all of the CSR units may want to be part of your relationship... [[Which ones?]] ...and they all want to benefit from funding. This monopoly, which was introduced 20 years ago, causes that in order to get public funding, how not to look at it from public funds - and the 36 million PLN I mentioned, now 39 million PLN, adding funds from the modernisation of this programme, this is the amount of 43 million PLN, that is, public funds - with your division, with the division from the central board of TSOs, you need to belong to a union to receive a grant, and this is a monopoly, this is something that should not happen. All units will receive support, whether they belong to the union or not, because they are all needed, they are all valuable and all together constitute one coherent, uniform fire protection system and a fire protection system in Poland. There are words here full of hypocrisy, words also, in my opinion, for great, even unacceptable quotations from the Holy Father, some words about partitions. Members, think about it. Ladies and gentlemen, consider what you are saying, because these are completely inadequate words to the situation we are talking about, and yet the PSL, which comes directly from the Polish People's Republic, imposes on us, Law and Justice, the Club of Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice, something like a return to the very solutions from which you come directly. You're just coming from, you have to say it clearly, and you're defending this position - a privileged position and a monopoly position. I was really avoiding until then, until today, during the second reading of political themes, but when I read in the newspapers the lamentation about the fact that this is an assassination of the position of the PSL, and here we hear accusations that it will now be politically green, then of course I have to say it, because it is absurd over absurdities. Regardless of who will exercise power in Poland - and democracy has it to itself, that power changes - will always be responsible for this by the chief of the State Fire Service. At the same time, I remind you, according to current legal solutions it is also the head of Civil Defence of the Country. This is a very important connection. You guys did it, by the way, that connection. So that you really go down to reality, look at it soberly, not defend your own interests. If you're a firefighter who's hoping for an election and therefore tells you all kinds of stupid things to please, then of course you can, but in the Seym it doesn't seem right. In the Seym one must remember that each of us represents the nation - this, once again, tells the beginning, art. 1 Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Not the lobby. The lobby shouldn't decide anything here. The Chief Commandant of the State Fire Department is a more political body than the PSL's governing board of the TSO? You gotta be kidding me, guys. You gotta be kidding me, Mr Sosnowski. Really think about what you're saying, don't really bring up words for big, completely inappropriate words. The amounts will not be smaller, ladies and gentlemen. 50% out of this 10% write-off will be made by law to voluntary fire services units, that is guaranteed by law, the remaining 50% - to the units of the State Fire Department, also taking into account other parts of the system, because I would remind you that the bill provides for... It's about writing in the article. 15 (1) and (8), namely the organizational units of the State Fire Service, as well as the organizational units of the Military Fire Protection Service, the factory fire department, the factory rescue service, the professional fire department and the field fire department. So that the State Fire Department will share a little of its amount of 50% with these very units. And the CSR will go to the other 50%. The bill says it won't be any less. It's not gonna be less, it's gonna be as much as it says in the transcript. This copy is unpredictable to the end. By the way, I would like to tell you that it is an absolute misunderstanding to argue that something is not in line with the Constitution here, that the main board has already planned expenditure. He can't plan his expenses until he has the money. The amounts that will come from this write-down are not entirely predictable. Only then can you plan when they are in your account. There could be more or less of them in a given year. So here your plans are based on something you've set up have no meaning, no reference to the constitution. Nobody picks up any acquired rights. By the way, when it comes to acquired rights, none of you said - and PSL should say it in his club speech, because that's the case You're the closest thing I've got to -- from 1991 to... 1997? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...by 1997, this solution, which will now be restored, was the solution that the Chief of the State Fire Department was distributing these funds. Then, using his political position, PSL managed to achieve such a solution, that now it is all the responsibility of the headquarters of the main voluntary firefighters, dominated for years by one political party, by the Polish People's Party. And you want to keep it. But this is not a democratic solution, this is not a rational solution, this is not a solution that would be good for building the strength and efficiency of the rescue and fire protection system in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to the fact that the facts and figures are important, and the figures are the increase in expenditure, the increase in the funding of CSR units. They will have under our rule well, very well, better and better. They're getting better. I was talking about these two volumes of thanks that I have on my desk, I will remind you, from the CSR units, for changing the subsidy system introduced last year in terms of budget subsidies, about the 36 million PLN. They received support from an individual who had previously waited for it without results, because the chief of command sees the entire system, the entire system is responsible. And it will be perfected, it will continue. This really is a good system, a good solution. Of course, one can think about the algorithm of this division, it can also be improved, but this solution that we have introduced is certainly better than the one that was before when the central board of TSOs distributed these funds. As regards the types of expenditure to which these funds may be directed, those from the insurance write-off, it will, as has already been noted, be a regulation of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, which will detail these issues. It's not true that it's not possible to fund youth teams now. By the way, I would like to remind you that last year out of this 36 million PLN some amount, probably 2 million, went to the board of the main TSO. And if by the CSR units, these small CSR units, the expenditure has been well realized and well settled, close to 100% - a very small fraction of these funds has not been used, less than ever before, than in the last years at least - while the central management of the TSO has difficulty in clearing part of the amount of 2 million, it has not properly spent the entire amount allocated, among other things. Just for support, for youth training camps. This area was included here and the board of directors is in trouble. So it's a sign of something, too. I don't want to get into other things anymore, because I don't have time for this, but this is an example of how it can work, where it works, where it works, where it doesn't work. So that I would very much ask the honourable Members to talk about this law in a rational manner to take care of the potential of the fire protection system to care for firefighters, these crowds, let us take it again, about 700,000. Polish volunteers' friends, not those that are sometimes spoken in the common language, hats that were created, so to speak, those organizations that have their interests in it. The less you, honourable Members of the PSL, but also the second members of other clubs, talk about it in some categories, as you do, because it is completely unbelievable, it is simply in a certain Cabotian hypocrisy directly, the better for you, because these arguments do not defend themselves. They look funny when you put them together with facts. The government supports this parliamentary project, considering that this will be a more rational, better solution than the previous one. We really do not see any reason to leave one of the many, thousands of social organizations in Poland, the headquarters of voluntary firefighters in a privileged situation. But volunteer firefighters and firefighters won't lose, and they'll gain. 124 million in 2017, let me remind you, an increase of 13% compared to 2016, together with these different parcels will be allocated to the CSR units. Last year it was 109 million, in the year of your governments it was even less. I think that speaks for itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Sosnowski made an adjustment. Time - 1 minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think you were absent from this room because I never said in any place that this bill was anti-Peeselian, but I told you and I said it, and I will repeat it: this bill is anti-fire and anti-Polish. And if you care so much about the welfare of the Republic of Poland, I would like to tell you that as a firefighter, I am a part of this nation and have the right to act in defence of the security of the citizens of the Republic. To Mr Pole: Mr Polek, when I was Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, you know best how honest I was towards all firemen. When did you show up? in the Ministry, when assistance was needed for your TSO, such assistance was provided. You don't have to be ashamed to say that from that platform. And to you, firemen, do not lose faith and hope that you will decide this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What you're gonna buy, and you're gonna really enjoy some real respect again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u167	Thank you very much, sir. Now the committee rapporteur, Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In fact, it was difficult for me as rapporteur to pick up questions, because questions like, whose project is this, what this system is going to look like... [[Whose is it?]] I think it's obvious. There is a document that clearly shows the Members who have signed, which shows who is the representative Member. It's obvious. I would like to say here, as rapporteur, that this was not at the committee's meeting, and this has come up here, in this debate. By representing the committee, I want to protest very clearly against such statements that it is an anti-Polish project. I have to stand up for the State Fire Department. Systemically guaranteeing the same amount of money from insurance companies of 50% led by the State Fire Department to volunteer firefighters is not an anti-Polish project. Those words in here shouldn't have come out of this podium at all. You mean what? That the Chief Command of the State Fire Department that the officers of the State Fire Service in the counties are not Polish service? Just, Mr Sosnowski, let us respect one another. [[It's about something completely different.]] Besides, you compared this project to the design of the assassins. I want to protest very clearly, too. Such words are disgraceful. Don't you know the story of what the invaders in Poland did? Are you comparing the intentions, expertise and service of the State Fire Service to the conquerors? Even if you are an opponent of the project, an opponent of Law and Justice, in my life I would not go to such a thing as to name the Polish People's Party an organization that acts like the killers. You should apologize for those words. [[Apologize.]] You should apologize for those words. [[Because you're in uniform, apologize.]] The fact of over-representing, huge over-representation of the Polish People's Party, including you, on the headquarters of the voluntary fire department would not have made me think of such words, to compare you to those who oppressed and murdered thousands of Poles for 120 years. It's a completely disgraceful and incomprehensible, unspeakable word. I'm not surprised at all. We all know that cooperation between voluntary firefighters - and this was also seen in many discussions and in every state you can see it and in every municipality - and the State Firefight is good. After all, it is not as you compare it to the conquerors or to the anti-Polish project, that the State Fire Department will be alienated from this cooperation. Those are the words that really are unworthy of this House. I'd like to protest. That was not the intention of the committee, which voted by a majority, it was true, this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u169	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia wheels, I present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Fire Protection Act. In accordance with the provisions in force so far, insurance undertakings are required to transfer 10% the amount collected for compulsory fire insurance for fire protection units. Half of this amount is now transferred to the Chief of the State Fire Service and the other half to the Union of Voluntary Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland, which distributes it between individual units of the TSO. This draft law provides for changes in the distribution of funds transferred from insurance companies. According to the proposed regulation, the sole authorising officer of these measures would be the head of the PSP. As the applicants point out, the proposed changes will serve to make the financial resources concerned more efficient and to control them more effectively. I agree that, in the light of the irregularities mentioned at the committee meeting, such as the previous irregularities. overestimation of the costs of the equipment purchased or discrimination in the allocation of non-union TSOs funds, changes in this area are necessary. However, my doubts are raised by some of the novels. This is true of the fact that, according to the new regulations, the financial resources currently received by TSOs from the relationship cannot be spent for the same purposes as before but can only be spent for the so-called. ensuring combat preparedness. It is not enough for me to ensure that these entities also now continue not only with the funding that we are talking about, but also with subsidies from self-funded sponsors, from their events or from sales made in their shops. However, I think that this is still a matter for discussion and refinement. I am convinced that the transfer of funds by insurance companies to one entity and not to two so far will translate into a more even separation between the various units of the voluntary fire department. However, due to the objections raised, the Free and Solidarnia area will request that this project be re-worked in committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u171	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on claims for damages caused by the infringement of competition law (prints 1370 and 1489). I will ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I present a report on the Government's draft law on claims for damages caused by a breach of competition law, print No 1370. High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to briefly present the main objectives of this project. First of all, it should be recalled that this is the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 104/2014, so-called. Compensation Directive of 26 November 2014 The government proposal for the implementation of this directive was prepared in such a way that the government decided on a separate law and amendment in the trade union rules, i.e. the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code, the Act on Combating Unfair Competition of 16 April 1993 and the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection of 16 February 2017. First of all, the matter of this law, it should also be emphasized, concerns the private legal sphere. To date, it can be said that Polish entrepreneurs did not have the right legal matter in terms of such claims to remedy the damage caused by the infringement of competition law, especially in relation to foreign entities. It is included in the article. 2 The case concerning the dictionary of legal terms, there are new concepts, previously unknown in the Polish legal system, such as the concept of cartel, direct buyer, indirect buyer, is also the concept of an entrepreneur within the meaning of this law. Procedural provisions are also introduced. Namely, as regards property, it will be appropriate for district courts regardless of the value of the subject matter of the dispute. The rules also govern the procedure, new institutions are introduced, which have not yet been known in civil proceedings. I mean revealing the evidence, i.e. Such a request may be made by the parties to the proceedings. The court may also order the defendant, third parties and the competition authority to do so. Appropriate orders are provided for or provisions are made to dismiss this request for disclosure, of course certain conditions must be met, and this is regulated in Article. 20. The application for disclosure of evidence shall be subject to a complaint. As far as other issues relating to the effectiveness of this procedure are concerned, I would like to stress that Article. 25 introduces rules on the effectiveness of the provisions requiring disclosure of the measure in the procedure of enforcement of non-monetary benefits, i.e. refers to Article. 1050 and Article 1050 1050 Code of Civil Procedure, where a one-off fine of up to 10 000 is foreseen. PLN and the total amount of fines measured may be up to PLN 1 million. There are also additional sanctions when a person evades disclosure of evidence as a party to the proceedings, e.g. destroys the document. There are specific procedural consequences. A financial penalty for filing an application for disclosure of evidence in bad faith - here is a fine of up to 20,000. zł. It is not uncommon for such requests to be made to postpone the proceedings. The General Court shall be bound by a final decision of the competition authorities of other Member States of the European Union. As regards the determination of the amount of the damage, here, the courts should be assisted by the guidelines of the European Commission, the courts may also apply to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection or to the competition authorities of another Member State in order to properly determine this amount of compensation. This is quite difficult and complicated. As a last resort, Article 1 shall remain applicable. 322 Code of Civil Procedure and this compensation, of course, if it is excessively difficult - then the court decides it at its own discretion. The substantive provisions concerning the limitation of these claims have also been amended, which is very important. This period has been extended from the current 3-year limitation period to 5 years, except that the beginning of the limitation period is calculated once the infringement of competition law has ceased. As far as the procedure is concerned, the joint committees: the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights have set up an emergency subcommittee which has introduced three substantive amendments to this project. The first of these substantive amendments concerns an amendment to the Article. 8. In the original project, the interest rate was determined as the compensatory percentage, i.e. the reference to the bank reference rate, i.e. 1,5% interest. The Commission introduced substitute statutory interest here, which is currently at 5% so it is particularly beneficial for those who are pursuing these claims. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The limitation period shall be suspended as soon as the investigation is initiated. This investigation has been carried out on several occasions in the case of in rem It lasts for a few years. It's hard to say that unless the perpetrator of the infringement is established, it was a statute of limitations. Thus, as I have already said, this limitation is only calculated from the determination of the cessation of the infringement of competition law. The third major amendment that has been introduced concerns transitional periods. The point is that the provisions of this Act apply in the case of claims for damages caused by an infringement of competition law which occurred after its entry into force. Here, there is not an important time limit for initiating proceedings, but a breach of competition law. In such a case, if the infringement occurred before the entry into force of that law, the provisions of that law are to apply, and if the proceedings were initiated earlier, the existing provisions shall apply, no matter when the infringement of competition law occurred. As far as vacathio legis is concerned, a 14-day minimum period has been maintained. It is beneficial for those who wish to bring such actions. The aim is to ensure that the whole range of new rights of the parties submitting such proceedings can be applied as soon as possible. On the other hand, the deadline for transposing this compensation directive, which has already expired since it was 27 December 2016, indicates that such legal solutions should be implemented as soon as possible. Let me just add that 10 Member States of the European Union have already introduced this directive. Both the Emergency Sub-Committee and the Joint Committees: the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, whose joint meeting took place yesterday, have in principle unanimously supported this proposal, with one abstention. I move that the High Sejm also adopt the government draft of this law, which is definitely needed by Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u173	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski will speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u174	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The matter discussed by the draftsman of the committee has consistently enjoyed the positive opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. It was the same before, when this agreement, these positive opinions were directed from all sides, all parliamentary clubs. We are now also positive about the amendments proposed in the course of the work and, of course, we will continue to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u175	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochock.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u176	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! The aim of the proposed law drawn up on the basis of the draft law on claims for damages caused by a breach of competition law is simply to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2014. In accordance with that Directive, its implementation in national legal orders should take place by 27 December 2016, i.e. the deadline has already expired. It is good that Law and Justice have dealt with this subject and the implementation of EU rules. The Civic Platform also welcomes the amendments and the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u177	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15 Mr Paweł Grabowski. It's not here at the moment. On behalf of the Modern Club - Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz... Mr Paweł Kobyliński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u178	Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Izbo! It's a necessary project, a transposition of EU law. Cartels are indeed, you can say, evils of all kinds, which are very damaging to competitiveness. Therefore, the Modern Club will support this project in its entirety. At the same time, I would like to thank you for your substantive work in committee. Once again, we will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u179	Thank you very much. In the meantime, Mr Paweł Grabowski has arrived. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u180	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to print no. 1370, i.e. the government bill on claims for damages caused by the infringement of competition law. As a general rule, it is important to point out first and foremost the swift, efficient procedure in the subcommittee, for which I thank the President. Interesting, substantive work, thanks to which comes a good project, which is the implementation of EU law. On the other hand, today we are also presenting our position on the report of the subcommittee, we have a second reading and I have to draw attention to one important deficiency of this project, which is in fact a failure of the entire Polish system of law. At the committee meeting yesterday during the discussion with the Minister, I was assured that the Ministry knew the problem and would solve the problem. Now the question is: What is the problem? Such a situation where only one entity is considered to be a very narrowly identified entrepreneur is not considered to be an entrepreneur of the whole group. What does it matter about this bill? Well, that's enough, for example. a strong entity, a capital company will form a daughter with small share capital, with small assets, and then such a daughter company, in breach of various laws, among others. Competition law rules can cause a lot of confusion, cause great damage to both the law itself and to other victims of its action and, worst of all, may not actually have any consequences because if it has small share capital, small assets, it will normally not be possible to enforce possible penalties that could or would be imposed in the world. We have therefore drawn the attention of the Minister and I stress once again: we will watch this, we will enforce it, so that all the capital groups are responsible for the infringement of competition law, but also for the infringement of other laws, for the various other delicacies where the creation of a separate legal entity is in fact intended to lead to a breakout from liability. It just can't be. The law must be tight, we must be matched, adapted to, let's face it, the cleverness of the various dishonest entrepreneurs who break the law they make themselves a source of profit, a source of income. However, going back to the report and the bill itself, I would like to say that the Kukiz Club will recommend to its Members the support of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u181	Thank you very much. The Polish People's Party Club presented its position in writing. There are no other votes. Mr Antoni Duda asked questions. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're working on a very important bill today. Especially important for small businesses. Although the purpose of the Act is to transpose directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on the rules governing damages actions for infringements of competition law, it is good that in order to regulate this issue, it is proposed to adopt a separate law which expressly regulates claims for damages caused by infringements of competition law. Here is the question: Is the proposed solution conducive to transparency of the legal situation and facilitates it to learn about the potential interested parties' claims and, consequently, to investigate them more effectively? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u183	Thank you very much. There was one question. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Mr Łukasz Piebiak will answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u184	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answering Mr Duda's question, I would like to say that the answer can only be one: of course, yes, it favours transparency. The subject matter is extremely difficult. In theory, today you can claim a breach of competition law on the basis of general liability rules, but this is a theory, this is not happening. This is not only happening in Poland, it is not happening in other, more economically advanced European countries. Here there has been a certain adversity towards the government, to the Ministry of Justice, that we are delaying the transposition of the directive, with implementation, with implementation. Yes, indeed, but we are still in the top ten of the 28 Member States, which shows how difficult it is and how important it is to do so. And the form was chosen on purpose, so that in the event of a breach of competition law the injured entrepreneur, very often this small entrepreneur, a Polish entrepreneur in confrontation with a giant, often foreign, would know where to look for rules that would allow him to seek protection, would allow him to seek compensation for what was done, especially through cartel collusions. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the members of both committees: the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, as well as the Emergency Sub-Committee and the Legislative Office for their extremely efficient and constructive work on this project. I can say with satisfaction that the joint committees have accepted all the most important substantive solutions introduced into the project, concerning in particular the amount of interest due to the injured party in the settlement of compensation, the beginning of the suspension of the limitation period or the transitional provisions. These amendments are well founded, they do not raise objections to the government. Legislative amendments facilitate the reading of the text, make it more transparent, improve the quality of the project in general. And thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank the President and the rapporteur Matusiewicz very warmly for their extremely efficient and competent conduct. I ask the High House to accept the report of the joint committees and to refer the draft law to the third reading without delay. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u185	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to see... [[No.]] No. Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on claims for damages caused by the infringement of competition law. This project regulates and standardizes the liability for damages caused by a breach of competition law and the principle of redress in civil proceedings. The proposal also aims to implement the EU Parliament and Council Directive of 26 November 2014 on certain provisions governing the enforcement of damages claims against Member States and the European Union's competition law. The Compensation Directive lays down the provisions necessary to ensure that any person who has suffered damage resulting from an infringement of EU competition law or national competition law by an undertaking or a association of undertakings, an effective investigation of that undertaking or a link between the full compensation for the damage suffered. The aim of the Act is to optimise relations between the public and private mechanisms for implementing competition law and to ensure that the full right to remedy the damage suffered by victims of an infringement of EU competition rules is guaranteed. The project assumes that the perpetrator of the infringement is obliged to make good the damage caused to anyone by the infringement of competition law, unless he is not guilty. According to this provision, the trader will have to prove that he is not guilty. In addition, the draft law provides that the infringement of competition law is detrimental. This presumption is intended to make it easier for the injured party to demonstrate the liability of the perpetrator of the infringement. An important change is to introduce in the Civil Code a provision that the limitation period does not begin and is suspended for the duration of mediation or other out-of-court means of resolving the dispute concerning the claim, unless otherwise provided. In addition, in the event that the limitation is interrupted by proceedings before a court or other body called upon to recognise or enforce a claim of a type or an arbitration tribunal, the limitation shall not run again until the proceedings have been completed. The Act is intended to cover the recovery of claims for damages caused by any infringement of competition law, regardless of whether the infringement affects the Union market or only the domestic market. This applies both to restrictive agreements, in particular cartels established by competitive companies, as well as to unauthorised unilateral practices of dominant parties. The victims of a breach of competition law shall be entitled to full compensation for the damage caused by the infringement, together with interest of a compensatory nature from the date on which the damage occurred to the date on which the compensation was due. The draft provides that cases for remedying the damage caused by the infringement of competition law will fall within the jurisdiction of the district courts regardless of the value of the matter at issue. This is supported by a high degree of complexity in these cases, especially in cases where the enforcement of an action is not preceded by a decision of the competition authority to recognise a particular practice as restrictive of competition, their relationship with the public-law enforcement of competition law, as well as specific arrangements in the field of evidence proceedings which constitute a novel in Polish civil proceedings. The bill introduces a specific and unknown type of application in the Polish civil procedure: a request for disclosure of evidence. In order to provide the injured party with the right to full compensation required by the Directive, it is provided that, if the court determines the amount of compensation at prices from a date other than the date on which the compensation is established, the injured party will also be entitled to interest at the reference rate of the NBP for the period from the date on which the prices were the basis for establishing the compensation until the date on which the claim for damages was due. In general terms, the court will also have the opportunity to adjudicate an appropriate sum at its own discretion when strict proof of the amount of the request is impossible or extremely difficult. The draft assumes that the determination of the final decision of the President of the OKiK on the recognition of the practice as restrictive of competition or the final judgment of the court given as a result of an appeal against such a decision will bind the court in proceedings for the recovery of the damage caused by the infringement of competition law as regards the finding of an infringement of competition law. High Izbo! There is no doubt that there is a need for better protection in the common EU market against infringement of competition law. Both the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU and this proposal are moving in this direction. To date, due to the high level of complexity of cases, the difficulties of evidence and the frequent imbalance in the market position between the perpetrator of the infringement and the victim of relatively few victims have decided to make a claim for damages. The proposed law will introduce a number of facilitations in the recovery of claims, thus reducing the gap between the perpetrator and the injured party in favour of the latter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u187	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the Rural Development Committee's report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 (prints No 1428 and No 1464). I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the law on support for rural development, with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 And the bill to which it relates is in print No 1428. The essence of the amendment is to enable the minister responsible for rural development to act as a central unit only for the public finance sector. The functions of the central unit of the national rural network by the end of 2017 will be carried out by the Fund for Agricultural Assistance Programmes, FAPA. The costs incurred by the FAPA in carrying out the tasks of the Central Unit in 2016 and 2017 shall be financed by the Foundation from its own resources. Following the entry into force of the proposed amendments for reimbursement of these costs, the FAPA will be able to apply for technical assistance from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. In other words, the beneficiary of the reimbursement of costs incurred in carrying out the tasks of the central unit of the national rural network for 2016 and 2017 will be FAPA. No amendments were tabled during the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The proposed changes are not controversial, and therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would like the High Sejm to adopt a government bill in print No 1464. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u189	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Ryszard Bartosik will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u190	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on the draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020. The amendment of the Law of 20 February 2015 on support for rural development involving the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 results, inter alia. with the need to change the way in which the implementation of the tasks of the central unit of the national rural network is financed. It follows from the provisions of the Act that the functioning of the national rural network ensures inter alia. the managing authority as a central unit. The amendment also results from the need to consolidate the tasks of the Minister responsible for Agriculture, Rural Development and Agricultural Markets around the units of the public finance sector relevant to these matters, under the authority of the Minister or supervised by that Minister. Similarly, from 1 January 2018, the tasks of the Central Unit will either be performed by the Managing Authority in accordance with Article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Act, or an entity in the public finance sector authorised to act as a central entity under the Regulation of the Minister for Rural Development issued pursuant to Article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Four of this bill. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, please vote for this government project. The Law and Justice Club supports this project without any amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Civic Platform will not support the government draft law from Seym Printing No 1428. Our negative position is based on the following conditions. Firstly, staff cleaning is the main objective of changes in the system serving agriculture and rural areas. Secondly, the Ministry effectively intends to dispose of the official staff with many years of experience and replace them with its party activists, as is the case with the Agricultural Property Agency, the Agricultural Market Agency, as well as in horse studs in Janów Podlaski and Michałów. Thirdly, the current government is unable to subdue the Foundation for Agricultural Assistance Programmes, the FAPA, to achieve the objectives of the common agricultural policy, so it is deprived of further tasks, including the function of the secretariat of the National Rural Network. Fourthly, transferring the secretariat of the National Rural Network to the Agricultural Advisory Centre in Brwinów during the programming period will mean multi-month decision-making paralysis or lack of mechanisms for implementing the tasks carried out by the National Rural Network. We note that this change will introduce organisational chaos in the functioning of 16 regional secretariats. We do not agree with the liquidation of the FAPA institution, which for 25 years, regardless of the circumstances surrounding the foundation, has performed many important functions and tasks in the field of advisory or implementation, or as an executive institution of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. It is worth recalling what the FAPA has accomplished over the 25 years. Firstly, in 1992 and 2000, implementing the Phare programme in the agricultural sector and participating in the implementation of the RAPID, STRUDER 2 and INRED programmes, it implemented more than 600 projects for the agricultural sector. Secondly, in 2000 and 2005, the foundation was the coordinator of an activation programme, rural development co-financed by a World Bank loan. Thirdly, the FAPA implemented two activities of the Sapard programme on vocational training and technical assistance between 2002 and 2006. Fourthly, the FAPA was an institution implementing three activities under the sectoral operational programme for the modernisation of the food and rural development sector for the period 2004-2006. Fifthly, from 2009 to 2015, FAPA served as an implementing body in the field of vocational training under the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013 and until April 2016. The FAPA carried out the tasks of the managing authority under Axis 5: Technical assistance in the Operational Programme for the period 2007 to 2013. The FAPA has received a positive audit assessment for the implementation of the activities listed in the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013 as well as for the implementation of Axis 5 tasks. The operational programme of the "Fish' for the period 2007 to 2013. In recognition of the aid acquis, the European Commission has granted FAPA status to cooperate with European partners in the implementation of the tasks financed by the European Union budget. Minister! High Izbo! The project raises two important questions. Firstly, what happened that the Ministry resigned from the work of an institution whose staff have the qualifications and experience necessary for a reliable and efficient performance of tasks? What is the real basis for the actions taken by the Minister? And secondly, does another institution, which is the National Agricultural Advisory Centre in Brewinów, have the right powers and means to carry out the tasks we face? Finally, it is worth noting that the FAPA, an institution that has been on the agricultural market in Poland for 25 years, is to be deprived of funding and properly disappear from public life or economic life. For these reasons, the Civic Platform Club will vote against this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u193	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, Mr Sachaiko will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u194	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Rural Development Support Act with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020. The draft law amends the financing of the tasks of the Central Unit of the National Rural Network, allowing the entity in its capacity to submit applications for technical assistance to the paying agency insofar as the costs incurred in carrying out the tasks of that Unit were not possible in the light of the existing rules. In my view, the bill should not give rise to any doubt. Maintaining artificial entities, regardless of what they are called - whether it's a foundation, a foundation or an agency - is unnecessary. Therefore, in order not to prolong the proceedings of the High House, I would like to say that Kukiz15 supports the changes proposed by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u195	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Modern Club, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Club regarding the print project No. 1428, i.e. a government draft law amending the law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that this is just another staff law, although it brings about the liquidation of a certain privileged position of the Agricultural Aid Foundation. In the past, FAPA was an expert in agricultural economics, with quite a large part of the money raised from the budget, providing training, etc. Today, it has actually become a little bit of a thing, which is the subject of political games, and it can be hidden that for years the positions have been filled there on the basis of party cards. It's just that I have the impression that, basically, we're not going to change much here except that we're going to replace one party card with another party card because... [[It's called competence.]] ...the selection of personnel in agricultural agencies under the Ministry of Agriculture is... I will not agree with you, sir, that it is on the basis of competence. [[Only competence.]] We had a big public discussion about how this selection of staff is taking place, and unfortunately I have the impression that the main reason, cause of employment and such a decisive element was, above all, the fact of belonging to the family, friends of Law and Justice... [[Take off your black glasses.]] ...family members. You can review various extensive articles on this subject, and I would also like to invite you to our website, Miesiewicze.pl. You will also find there people employed in various government agencies whose qualifications we have doubts about. Moreover, the exchange of these staff raised a number of doubts in the past, as well as difficulties related to late payment of payments, with what was happening at the Arabian horse stud. Therefore, as a club Modern we are not able to support further laws aimed solely at the exchange of human resources, if this exchange of human resources Unfortunately, it does not change anything, because further, as I said, the main determining factor for employment in a position remains belonging, political sympathy, and not being qualified. As far as the improvement process is concerned, it should not actually be so that foundations have certain privileged positions and from the vending machine they get at their disposal some of the funds. It's better if it's a budget institution. Unfortunately, the way in which previous staff exchanges were carried out, as I said, raises too much controversy and too much doubt to support another such staff exchange. Therefore, the club The modern will not support this Act, bearing in mind the quality of... [[That's too bad.]] ...the selection of personnel by Law and Justice and the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u197	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, Mr Marek Sawicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! When I speak in this law, I would like to point out at the outset that my club will not support this law either. I would like to point out that today, once again at the Committee on Agriculture, I have learned that in many matters the Law and Justice have different concepts for the functioning of agriculture and those working for agriculture. I understand that, this is democracy. And so I am very surprised that you have been bypassed by the Foundation of Agricultural Aid Programmes for so long, but the time has come and for it, but it would be good if, apart from staff and institutional matters, you could also see issues related to agriculture, the agricultural environment, the national network of rural areas and the consequences that these changes will bring. Moving the management centre, moving the national rural network office to a new institution, to a new unit will make all these people have to learn all over again. Of course, you can't destroy the analytical and scientific achievements of this foundation, because you're too short for that, so this institution with a 25-year internship, this foundation with a 25-year internship, will certainly defend itself. On the other hand, will the National Rural Network defend itself? I don't know. It's time to tell. We will judge you for this, just as we can judge you today for the changes in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. [[We can do this.]] It is, was a great president, built a wonderful, modern IT system, which, today, after a year and a half, is still a faulty system. The President was rewarded with a new job at ENERGYA and no longer works at the restructuring agency. The change has already taken place at the Agricultural Market Agency, also at the Agricultural Property Agency. The President for the annual merits of protecting Polish land from foreigners, which this year, as I learned in the committee, you sold to foreigners more than in 2015, has already been suspended. So I feel like you're touching another area, and the National Rural Network is also going to be the victim of this so-called one. It's a good change. So, the good advice of an older friend: before you go to the end, think a little bit about it from time to time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u199	Thank you. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarnia Circle of Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period. The draft law gives a new role to the Foundation for Agricultural Aid, which, in accordance with the provisions of the Act, will act as the central unit of the National Rural Network by the end of 2017. The operating costs of the unit to date were borne by itself. The proposed changes assume that once the FAPA law enters into force, it will be able to apply for a refund in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. For this reason, it is important that the law, contrary to reservations in committee work, enters into force as soon as possible. The designers prove that the technical change in the way the central unit's tasks are cleared by the FAPA requires a short period of entry into force of the Act. I believe that this claim is based on a fair assessment. It should be stressed that the project under examination consolidates the tasks of the Minister responsible for agriculture and rural development and allows him to have a greater impact on policy-making related to agriculture. The simplification of the way the central unit's tasks are financed is also one of the objectives of statutory changes, and as we know from life, any facilitation of reducing bureaucracy results in tangible benefits for citizens. About Free and Solidarni supports the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u201	Thank you very much. Three Members have asked questions. The first question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński. Question time - 1 minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I happen to have a few years of cooperation with the FAPA in my previous professional appearances, and I can say a lot of good about the staff of this institution. Perhaps none of these people have ever thanked these people before. I'd like to do it, the more that their situation changes at the end of this year. Of course, the Ministry has the right to format the way EU funds are spent on rural development, but the fundamental question arises: Are you able to guarantee that this change will not result in shifts? Because we are in the middle of a time perspective, and it so happens that the resources for the tasks entrusted to FAPA, in particular the National Rural Network, are going hard. And this main problem is primarily in the procedures and the way in which these funds are spent, not in the institution itself. I'd like a minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ask that these doubts be resolved.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u203	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I hope this bill isn't a personnel bill. Besides, it's hard to be, because I don't think the minister's gonna hire other employees at the FAPA foundation because it's a foundation. And no one, I think, here will be taking away the achievements of this foundation. My question is about costs. What were the costs or the costs, the annual maintenance costs of this foundation and will there be costs, and if so, what are the costs of the next institution to take over these tasks? Because I think we have enough officials working at different levels of government administration, as well as agencies, that we should have enough of these officials. You don't need to, like here there were fears, to replace one another, because those who are, yet - I suspect - a couple of tasks such foundations would serve. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u205	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question: What are the real reasons, Minister, what are the real reasons for the decision to eliminate in principle an organization with a 25-year history, with experienced people, with a staff of educated, targeted people? And isn't the Minister afraid of organizational chaos in, as my predecessor said here, the centre of action - at the moment, the change of organisation and the transfer of these tasks to the national counseling center in Brwinów? Aren't you afraid of a minister in a situation similar to a staff exchange in agencies that caused late payments? [[That is not true, Member.]] Isn't the Minister afraid... That's right, sir, that's right. I know the truth hurts, but there were delays. [[That's not true.]] Isn't the Minister afraid of this chaos and delay? And why is this long-term organization being liquidated? I'd like to thank everyone from this speaker, too, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who worked in it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u207	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the government - Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Mr Ryszard Zarudzki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like, before I refer to the questions that have been asked, to highlight in a few more words the validity and changes relating to the revision of the Rural Development Act involving the European Fund, in a nutshell The EAFRD, for the period 2014-2020. This applies to the seym printing, after the correction, No. 1464. Since 2018, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development will be able to authorise, by means of a regulation, the central unit of the National Rural Network only to act as a unit of the public finance sector. If there is no regulation - I would like to supplement it - then the ministry itself will be the central unit. Here I would like to say: not the secretariat, but the central unit. The Secretariat was in operation in the previous period, 2007. And we're talking about a group of 10 people. We're talking about a group of 10 people who in this new... It's going to be a little different since the new year, but it's like there's some sort of clarity in the scale. And now, if we're talking about the central unit, this is the coordinator of KSOW's activities. And I'm calming right now that most of these people, wherever the central unit is, or the ministry, or within the scope of the possibility, as has already been mentioned here, of an agricultural advisory centre... That doesn't mean it's gonna be 10 new people. It could also mean that... I don't know if everyone's gonna go through with this, because there are new jobs, and on this occasion, you're gonna see it, you're gonna see it, you're gonna rationalize employment. If we are talking about staff matters, I would like to stress that CDR's directors are e.g. FAPA employees, this was until recently, e.g. Krzysztof Janiak was an experienced employee of the advisory centre and no one asked him about the party card. He's an experienced, very good employee. We agree... In addition, some of the FAPA employees are moving into different structures and we are taking advantage of their help. And I would also like to stress that I value very much... I was especially raised as a FAPA. It would be inappropriate if I didn't say it, and I underestimated the value and a certain staff, the background of the aid programs foundation. We have 25 years of FAPA functioning at the moment. [[And it's over.]] But I would like to point out now that each time has its own kind of argument. And let me finish it. I would like to return to the post-election term of office, now, the current term of office of the Sejm, when the FAPA Statute was amended. I think the best proof of that will be a member of the board of foundations, Minister Nalewajk. I encourage you to confirm that, because he's a member of the FAPA board. And I draw attention to what is the problem of the Ministry and the Minister: when it comes to the Minister, after the election, the statute was changed. This is to be confirmed. I will also be happy to provide all sufficient information on my part and to present documents on the fact that the Minister - and this is the most important sentence - does not affect the FAPA. After the amendment of the statute, the Minister shall not affect the functioning of the FAPA. [[But the minister is closing down the institutions.]] The minister's trying to get in here... We're talking about this situation. He's shutting down the institutions, but how? So I wouldn't want to start a discussion, I wouldn't want to start a discussion. [[He's pulling out.]] And here, giving away this reality that is... Not much, we know about the layoffs that take place at the FAPA, not because of us. We do not make these changes, we do not even initiate them in any way, because of this - once again - that the Constitutional Minister has no influence on the functioning of the Foundation for Aid for Agriculture. It was the previous coalition after the election that made a change. We've tried, we've written letters, there's all the documentation to reverse this process. We've been trying to talk to the Foundation's board for its functioning, and here it is. This is exactly the kind of request that he may go back to asking Minister Nalejek or the members of the board of foundations to speak to the Constitutional Minister. And that's the problem we have. The central unit to fulfil its functions is... This is the National Rural Network, that is the SIR, which is the network for agricultural innovation, that is also the regional networks managed by the marshals, that is the whole process that has been carried out over the previous year, the provision of technical assistance, and it is also about the level of technical assistance, which as if it functioned at the moment, at the moment the tasks are being carried out. I do not see any danger, on the contrary, it is ordering and there is a unit of the public finance sector which has its tasks of consolidating institutions. At this stage, I actually think that each time has its own... It is important to keep all the good and capital that it is. We know that people are leaving, and we're trying to talk to them about hiring at the ministry or at the farm advisory center. As to the answer to my questions, I think I have already answered the question whether the farm advisory centre has the right qualifications. He's qualified. On the contrary, I do not want those people who have worked in the Central Unit to take them away. I'm saying it with all my responsibility. When it comes to FAPA and whether it is to disappear, it is not up to me, but to FAPA itself, which the Minister has no influence on. And I think that when it comes to the tasks and the fulfilment of those tasks that are the responsibility of the minister, we should be, as it were, given the grant... So now we're back to the financial resources for this. They're from technical assistance. The aim is to ensure that the tasks of the RDPs can be properly carried out. We are at the final stage to increase technical assistance by EUR 115 million. That's the whole procedure, too, to run it. After all, these are also marshal offices, advisory centers, and these are such units. So it's about service, it's about a group of 10 employees, a central unit. What is the amount for the central unit? In 2015 - 1,7 EUR 1 million in 2016 - 1,6 million, in 2017 - 2,1 million, in 2018, we are planning 2.5 million. This is the size row of technical assistance. And this procedure in the bill, which is proposed, is tidying up and giving it a new character and a new quality. It takes into account existing resources and makes sure that it is possible to work at the right level, which with all of this, I think, firmly I would like to emphasise. And the questions that have been raised here are: Are we able to ensure continuity and guarantee procedures? As always in such cases, I am convinced that I have already answered this question. It is not enough that we are - the same people, I hope, whether they will work here or elsewhere, they will be, even if there are two people or three new people there. I don't see any threats here. On the contrary, we have developed, for example, competitions that have now been announced. I do not want to say - really with all my sympathy - what we found last year, because it is EU funds and rather silence is a virtue here, than as if returning to the reality in which we were. It is about technical assistance, how technical assistance and resources were spent. [[Are there any comments?]] Please? [[Are there any comments?]] There are comments and I experienced it when I took over technical assistance and scopes, and the functioning of the technical assistance team under the Rural Development Programme. [[And the consequences?]] Please? [[Consequences.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u209	Minister, this is not the time to discuss the room. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: This case is settled. If you need more information, please, I'm at your disposal, and I'm willing to share it, because it's a very good experience. That's it. In order to close this, I thank you for all those earlier votes and for your acceptance. I am convinced that the amendment to the Rural Development Act in this part of the regulation consolidates, consolidates, gives some quality to our work, it is about the functioning and spending of public funds under the Rural Development Programme in the section on the functioning of the National Rural Development Network. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The rapporteur? [[There were no questions.]] No, thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Cinema and some other laws (prints Nos 1427 and 1444). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Cinema and some other laws, prints Nos 1427 and 1444. The main purpose of the project submitted by the Government of the Republic of Poland is to amend the Act of 30 June 2005 on cinematography. The proposed proposal amends the provisions in such a way as to ensure consistency. Act of 25 October 1991 on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities and the resulting powers of the organisers of cultural activities. The project envisages replacing the name of the cultural institution currently mentioned in the Act of 2005 on cinematography, i.e. National Film Library, a more general formulation indicating the existence of an institution of culture specialised in the protection of national cultural heritage in the field of cinematography. It is also important that, in view of the need to ensure greater efficiency of actions to safeguard and make available the national audiovisual heritage, with particular regard to the collections of the National Film Library and the potential of the knowledge and technology of the National Audiovisual Institute, a combination of these cultural institutions is planned on the basis of the provisions of the Act of 25 October 1991 on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. And most importantly, as a result of the draft law submitted by the government of the merger, a state institution of culture will be created: National Film Library - Audiovisual Institute. In view of the fact that the collection and protection of the Polish filmmaking acquis in accordance with the provisions of the 2005 Act on cinematography remains the task indicated in the Act under the name of the National Film Library, it is necessary to make appropriate changes to this act allowing for the change of name and the merger of two cultural institutions. It is, of course, the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 5 April 2017, Members asked a number of questions. A substantive discussion has been held. The future of this new combined cultural institution has been addressed. They were asked about substantive, personal matters, as well as the collections of the National Audiovisual Institute. In response, Minister Jarosław Sellin reassured that it would actually be such a strengthening of the activities of these two institutions after the merger that there would be synergies, that the budget, rights, experience of employees, all this would continue by the new institution of culture, if the Polish Parliament adopted it, and that as much as possible the collections of the National Audiovisual Institute would be safe under the new, revised law. One amendment to the proposed law, as well as various legislative amendments, was subsequently adopted as a result of the vote. Finally, in the vote of the members of the Committee on Culture and Media, 12 votes in favour and 9 votes against the draft law was positively recommended to the High House. I would like to remind you that this is about the merger of the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute and the creation of a national culture institution specialized in the protection of national cultural heritage in the field of cinematography. This new institution will be called: National Film Library - Audiovisual Institute. On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I recommend that the High House adopt a draft government law amending the Cinema Act and certain other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u211	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anita Czerwińska will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the amendment of the Act on Cinema and some other laws, prints Nos 1427 and 1444. The amendment is necessary to ensure consistency with the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities and the resulting powers of the organisers of cultural activities, since the Act on Cinema is defectively using the name of a cultural institution which has been established by a lower order act, preventing the organiser from exercising certain powers. The planned merger of the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute and the creation of a national cultural institution: the National Film Library - the Audiovisual Institute requires appropriate amendments to the Act, which will enable the name to be changed and the merger of these two institutions. These changes result in the necessary changes in the Act on State Film Institutions and the Act on Mandatory Library Copies. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u213	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. There is no Member. Mr Piotr Appeal will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Krystian Jarubas will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u214	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Cinema and some other laws, prints Nos 1427 and 1444. Ladies and gentlemen! The main premise of the government's draft law on amending the Act on Cinema and some other laws is the merger of the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute. The institution to be established will be called the National Film Library - Audiovisual Institute. The reason for the merger of the two institutions is the need to ensure greater efficiency in securing and making available the national audiovisual heritage, with particular regard to the collections of the National Film Library and the potential of the knowledge and technology of the National Audiovisual Institute. Beautifully written, as if a nomen omen from the Polish Film Chronicle. Ladies and gentlemen, the question remains whether this bill is by chance nothing more than another staff bill. What's the connection really for? We do not know much about it, and the questions arise: Which institution will benefit from it, which institution will lose? Was there a thorough analysis carried out? Have they counted the costs that will occur now, and have they been well planned for the future? How much money will be spent on digitalisation equipment? Has storage space been provided for digital collections? And so on... Another issue remains - the fears of the creators, whom we know very well, PiS does not like. It can therefore be expected that the new institution, without looking at the creators, will want to subdue ideological purposes of power, to carry out films on a political order. If you add to it the impulses of the rulers to write history again, it may turn out that the film, e.g. The heroes of the Battalions of Boys or Sanctification opponents will have no chance of being realized. After all, it can be seen every year that the aim of the PiS is to subdue the whole culture to ideological assumptions of the leading party and replace competent leadership with obedient people. Following this lead, will it not be so that PiS, as it is customary, can release experts from existing institutions and replace them by appointment or, otherwise, political anointing of its so-called. Misiewicz or Pisiewicz? In this, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, I'm sure you're good, the best. You're playing like this, not giving any details. You want to dismantle the working institutions, and you can't pinpoint how you want to improve their activities. You're playing the best game because you've already shown it on the example of other institutions that have already been your victim. In conclusion, I will use a paraphrase of words from one of the good Polish films: and who pays for it? You pay, you pay, society. But society will settle you, ladies and gentlemen. The PSL Club will be against this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u215	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan will now take the floor on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Cinema and some other laws. The Act is the result of the decision of the Minister of Culture regarding the merger of two national cultural institutions - the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute. As a result of this procedure, a new institution will be created, combining the competences of the two previous institutions called National Filmoteka - Audiovisual Institute. However, due to this change and the fact that the National Film Library will no longer exist, it is necessary to amend the laws in which its name is used. As the projectors point out, the creation of a new institution in place of two so far will positively affect the efficiency of the management and protection of the Polish film heritage. In addition, it can increase the speed of making available of the cinematographic collection held by the National Film Library. Given the equipment and the previous digital experience of the National Audiovisual Institute, I believe that the merger of these two institutions is right and we will all benefit from it. I see no obstacle to the fact that the activities of the National Audiovisual Institute concern a wider scope than the National Film Library. According to the information provided, it will not change but will only be enriched. However, I share some of the opposition's concerns. According to the current plans, the creation of a new entity is due to take place on 10 May, so soon. During the work in committee, the Minister's assurances that the consolidation of these two institutions will also include their potentials, i.e. the budget, rights and experience of employees, but there is still too little information on the stage at which these works are, as in practice this cooperation will look like. I think that more complete and comprehensive communication on this matter can reassure some of the opposition and, above all, the employees of both institutions. As I said before, near Free and Solidarnia supports the ministry's efforts to create the National Film Library - the Audiovisual Institute and will vote in favour of further proceding this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u217	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 - Mr Piotr Apel a bit late.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u218	Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! There's really a time problem here, because as the proverb says, which suddenly, it's after the devil. I think that such changes, important changes for the employees of both institutions should take place in a certain length of time and the integration of these two important for the Polish culture of the institutions should take place in peace and with some preparation. Here we draw attention to the fact that a term such a short, actually a few weeks, two to three weeks, will not allow for a good preparation of this project. We also draw attention to the fact that the archives to be combined still need to be recorded and still need to be digitised, so here is the question which of these institutions will deal with digitisation and which teams from individual institutions will assume overlapping responsibilities. These are things that we still don't have the answers to, and they cause us concern. On the other hand, if you can combine institutions that work in such a similar subject, the idea itself is good and worth responding positively to it, but as usual, the devil is in the details, so we are waiting for information from the ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u219	Thank you very much. Three Members joined the questions. She is the first to ask the question of Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute. I'm closing the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On May 10th, the National Film Library is to be connected to the National Audiovisual Institute. Is this going to solve the problems of a movie where the roof is leaking and the warehouses where the unique collections are stored are moist and tight? Even after the merger of these institutions, it will be necessary to expand the magazines of today's film library and additional money to address the huge problems of this institution. Why, then, is this amendment required in this Act, Minister, if the connection of the film library with the Institute will not solve its problems? Or is it just so that the contract for the current director of the film is terminated so that he can be replaced by someone from the PiS? There's even an informal candidate, the minister's attorney to join both institutions just now. So I'm going to ask the Minister if and when after the merger of the film and the institute [[♪ The bell ♪]] there will be extensive storage facilities...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u221	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u222	...the good culture currently subject to the film. To what extent will the funds be earmarked for this purpose?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u223	Thank you. Now you are asking Maciej Masłowski, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome. [[But you're a courteous marshal, you're ahead anyway.]] But you have to be in time, it is a Member's duty, as well as a certain skill to be able to be in time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And I'll show you how it's done. Question. The aim of this amendment is to enable the merger of the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute in the future and the creation of a national cultural institution, i.e. the National Film Library - the Audiovisual Institute. My question is: How will the financing rules of these institutions change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u225	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Club Law and Justice. There is no Member. The discussion is closed... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Mr Marshal...]] Madam President, this part - the club speeches - has already been exhausted. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: But if you would allow me, I would explain the situation.]] Please explain.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At the moment, the meeting of the cultural committee, that is, the committee that deals with this item in substance, has ended. There's no word to the O.R. that this point with an hour's acceleration...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u227	Sure. I would therefore like to ask for the position of the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u228	May I make a statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u229	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u230	In line with the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, which, at first reading, made a request to reject this project at first reading, I support this request. De facto it is a provision, it is a law which consists in deleting from the Act on cinematography the name of the National Film Library in favour of an even more vague and undefined institution, which is to deal with the tradition of Polish cinematography in the future. Of course, it's a project like a project. This provision could probably be found and should be included in the final provisions of the law which appoints a new institution, because we read this in the explanatory memorandum. Not much, at the committee meeting, the Minister of Culture stated that this new institution would be set up by May 10th. Perhaps it will be very necessary and very good, but there is nothing in this bill. We don't know the assumptions, we don't know the statute. We do not know what the funding will be, how this new institution will combine the existing competences and tasks of the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute. In a word, it is not entirely possible to adopt such a residual legal solution at the moment. The argument that this new institution will be set up by the Minister's order is, of course, an argument to be accepted, because it is possible from a formal point of view, but I would point out that we are talking about a public institution which has, in the future, a very serious thing to do with its tasks. The very elimination of the National Film Library - notabene surprises me because the word "national" should probably please here - it does not explain anything. We would like to know how this new institution will be created and whether the achievements of both the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute will be wasted. For the reasons I have quoted here - I am sorry that in such an emergency mode, but not because of me - I maintain my motion to reject this project at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u231	Madam President, we are at second reading. You haven't filed a motion yet. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: First reading.]] The first one is no longer valid. In the second... [[Mr Iwona Sledzińska-Catarasinska: Mr Marshal, he is in the report. This is a minority request.]] Then please file a motion for rejection in writing. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Please be precise.]] State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Jarosław Sellin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the will of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage is to combine two institutions into one: the National Film Library, which already has almost 60 years of tradition and employs 120 people today, and the National Audiovisual Institute, a much younger institution, which exists about 10 years old, which employs 80 employees. After the merger it will be a larger institution, it will have about 200 employees. We do this primarily because, in the case of the National Film Library, its greatest value is in fact the possession of powerful collections, in terms of the history of Polish cinematography, which require digitisation, better storage and security. The tradition of this younger institution, i.e. the National Audiovisual Institute, is among others. digitalisation, ensuring the quality of holding the harvest, while the National Audiovisual Institute itself does not have its own ambitious or large collections. So that after the merger this synergy effect will largely consist in the fact that one institution will help to maintain powerful and valuable collections of the other institution from the point of view of the achievements of Polish cinematography. As far as the preparation for this connection is concerned, it is carried out. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that since October, i.e. for more than half a year, there has been a minister's representative in charge of the merger of the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute in order to create a new institution, i.e. the National Film Library - the Audiovisual Institute, the acronym of FINA. That's the acronym we're gonna use. He has already carried out such activities as coordinating the process of drawing up the balance sheet, the transfer-received protocols of the combined institutions, the process of taking over property to the new institution, with particular regard to the museums of the combined cultural institutions, commitments, claims of the combined cultural institutions, the coordination of the processes of taking over rights and obligations relating to the collections of the combined cultural institutions, the processes of taking over by the new institution the documentation held by the combined cultural institutions or the fulfilment of employers' obligations towards the employees of the two combined cultural institutions. So that this documentary effort to create this new institution after the merger of these two has already been done. Now we are just waiting for a formal opportunity to make this merger, and for this we need a law that we have proposed, namely a law that properly cleans the situation concerning a number of other laws, which contained the name of the National Philmotheque, which is simply to cease to exist as a name. It is intended to be more general, more flexible, that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage has an institution to carry out activities in the field of the protection of national cultural heritage in the field of cinematography. I would also like to remind you, Madam President of the Sledzińska-Katarasinska, because we discussed this at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, that the institutions are not called by law, but by the order of the Minister. Both the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute were created this way. The new institution is also to be created by the Minister's decree. Nor is it true, it was perhaps a slight malice towards my political environment, that we are removing the national expression from the name. No, because the new institution will be called the National Film Library - the Audiovisual Institute. As for Mrs Małgorzata Płępek's question, I would like to point out that the National Film Library, right now, precisely in recent weeks, has received 600,000. PLN for investments, for this very leaking roof, for warehouses. Since the Member represents a specific environment, the Civic Platform, which has ruled for 8 years, I will draw attention to the fact that for the previous 8 years, although there have been the same problems, such money has not been allocated to this institution. With regard to Mr Maciej Masłowski's question, the financing rules will be the same as for any institution organised by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. As is now such an institution, both the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute, and this future institution, i.e. the National Film Library - the Audiovisual Institute, will be financed from May 10th by an individual grant from the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and by appropriate targeted grants for the tasks that this new institution will report, which is exactly the same as in the case of the National Film Library or the National Audiovisual Institute. The Member who presented the position of the PSL has come out, and it is a pity, because there was a political claw in his speech and I wanted to refer to it, but since he is not here, I will pass on this part of the speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u233	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Piotr Babinetz, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would just like to add to this discussion that at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, Minister Jarosław Sellin declared the possibility to meet again at the meeting of the Committee on Culture no longer in the legislative way, but on the basis of information and discussion on the development of these combined institutions, the National Film Library - the Audiovisual Institute. There is also an interest on the part of the Committee on Culture and Media, so that in due course such a discussion, which will show the development of this new institution, will be possible. However, I will refer, even though Mr PSL has left the room, to his speech, to his concerns about the future as regards the Boys' Battalions. I think it is very important to make a film about the Battalion's soldier, about the commander of the branch of Klon 22, Joseph Cieśla, who had fought against Germany since the beginning of World War II, and then continued his armed resistance against the Soviet communist power until 1955. I'm sure this character is worth reminding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u235	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We're going to connect the National Film Library with the National Audiovisual Institute. The connection is aimed at, among others. Saving the devastating archives of the film library, our heritage. However, while the National Film Library cares about the survival of works, the National Audiovisual Institute especially cares about their popularization - contact with the viewer. Therefore, I would like to ask: Will the new institution ensure continuity and development of effective working methods developed by the National Audiovisual Institute in the field of digitalisation and sound processing and promotion of Polish audiovisual heritage in the world, e.g. through a high-end Internet portal?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u237	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sports events, in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985 (prints No 1407 and 1469). I ask Mr Ireneusz Breś to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to present the report of the committee, which is included in print No 1469, which concerns the draft of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators in the course of sports events, in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985. I would like to say that we are proposing that, without any change, the Sejm should approve the project that has been submitted. It should be said briefly that this convention has become obsolete because in 2016 a new draft convention was adopted at the Council of Europe Delegation Committee, which will be discussed in the next item, so I will not quote it. As you know from the title, this convention, which is still in force today, was adopted by us in 1985 and is still in force today. With years, however, as we all know, some issues have become obsolete, some new challenges have emerged, and there is a new technology also fighting in this area. This is all contained in the new legal decisions of the European countries. This old convention was ratified by 42 countries in a specific situation. We remember all the events that really upset us in 1985, the tragedy on Heysel. Today, a large part, as I said, is obsolete and incompatible with the current European experience and good practices that are applied in these countries. The focus on the violence of fans in isolation from these other factors, the security systems, the protection of viewers at football stadiums themselves is too narrowly covered in the current document. The Convention also runs counter to some of the recommendations made by the Council of Europe's Permanent Committee over the last 30 years, which undermines the credibility of the functioning of the Convention. The provisions of the Convention, which we want to express, do not reflect the current perspective of looking at security in sport, namely the need for an integrated multi-subject system of security management and support of sports viewers and the need for dialogue and cooperation with football fans and other, of course, sports disciplines. Changing the content of the Convention will allow for the implementation of new ways to combat aggression, life-threatening incidents and health-threatening sporting events. The interesting thing is that we went so far that the new document is not only about what's going on at the stadium, but also about the dangers on the way to the stadium, what are the threats in places outside the stadium, where fans meet in large groups to watch, through television signal, sports events, football matches, in so-called. fan zones. These are all new experiences, and that is what we must respond to today in line with the experiences of recent years. Therefore, in 2012, with the large participation of the Polish Minister of Sport, work began on a new convention which, as I said, ended last year. This document will better serve international cooperation, between countries. So that the recommendation of the joint committee is unanimous. We would like to propose to adopt a government bill on the termination of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators at sporting events, and in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u239	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Matuszewski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was honored to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government bill on the termination of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sports events, in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985, print No 1407. The aim is to terminate the outdated international agreement in order to enable Poland to adopt a new Convention of the Council of Europe on an integrated approach to security and service during football matches and other sporting events, which is why the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the Government's bill to denounce the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sports events, in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985, print No 1407, and asks the High House to adopt it without amendment in the version of the submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jacek Kosecki will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To keep from repeating the same formulas, I will shorten my position. On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I express my opinion on the draft Print Act No 1407. It must be said that the 1985 Convention, as the President said... Indeed, there were terrible events, on Heysel, dozens of people killed, and later many countries had problems organizing mass events. In some countries, including ours, there are laws on the security of mass events, and they detail this issue, the solutions to be applied to such events and certain behaviours. It must be said that this convention entered into force on 1 June 1995, but in 2012 it was decided to carry out analyses of the need and possibilities for updating the European Convention of 1985. The conclusions of the analysis: the content of the Convention, as President Raś has already said, has become largely outdated and incompatible with the current European experience, good practice. The provisions of the committee do not reflect the current perspective and the view of safety in sport. It should be said that terrorism is ruthless. We have seen recent events, such as in France before the game in Paris, suicide attacks in front of the stadium, in Germany, in Dortmund, recently an explosion in front of the football coach. They're not just stadiums, they're fans who stay in their fan zones, they're restaurants - we've had such accidents lately - concerts that are organized... Therefore, constant vigilance of all services and legal changes, expected and needed, must be carried out. Thus, in order to become a party to the 2016 Convention, the State would like to become a party to the 2016 Convention. may not deposit the instrument of ratification of acceptance or approval if it has not previously denounced the 1985 Convention or has not done so at the same time. It is therefore proposed that the Convention be terminated in the same way by the Republic of Poland, i.e. with prior consent expressed in the Act. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of adopting a draft law from print No 1407 without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, it'll be brief because it's so obvious. In the committee full agreement, in the Sejm, full agreement that this convention must be declared so that we can adopt another one in the next point, so Kukiz will not comment and will be most inclined to adopt this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u245	Thank you. Now Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a state-of-the-art position on the government draft law on the termination of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sporting events, in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985, following the presentation of a report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. These are 1407 and 1469 prints. High Izbo! This draft law, as I mentioned, concerns the termination of the European Convention on Safety at sporting events. It was drawn up in 1985. Almost 10 years later, Poland ratified the Convention and committed itself to applying its provisions on 1 June 1995. Of course, as you can imagine, the contents of the convention reflected the existing views and practices at the time regarding modeling the way the audience behaves during sporting events. The Convention highlighted the role of crowd management through the use of barriers and fences and the activities of law enforcement and information services. However, with the progress made over the last two decades in securing sporting events, with the emergence of new challenges, but also the creative approach to safety management, this convention has become obsolete. It is worth noting that some of its records are in contradiction with the current practice and contemporary experience of the organizers of sporting events. In the light of the above conclusions, a proposal for a new Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and handling during football and other sporting events was adopted at the Council of Europe's Committee of Delegates of Ministers on 4 May 2016. This new convention responds to today's challenges in this area and aims to replace the current Convention. However, Poland's commitment to the new convention will only be possible if the 1985 Convention is terminated and this draft law is satisfied. In the light of the facts cited, the termination of the present Convention should be considered as appropriate and, therefore, as a result of the above considerations, the Posel Club The modern bill will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u247	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Baszko will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the government draft law on the termination of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sports events, in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985, prints 1407 and 1469. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Over the past few years, the document has become obsolete and contrary to modern approaches and good practices. Some of its provisions are seen today as increasing rather than reducing the risk of an incident during sporting events. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party does not comment and is in favour of the above. a draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u249	Thank you very much. No one's asked questions. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sporting events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016, signed by the Minister of Sport and Tourism of the Republic of Poland on 29 November 2016 (prints No 1408 and 1470). I ask Mr Ireneusz Breś to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I also wanted to present a report on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sporting events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016, signed by the Minister of Sport and Tourism of the Republic of Poland on 29 November 2016, the printing of Law No 1408, the printing of Report No 1470. We also wanted, in line with the Government's submission, to recommend the same version to the High House for adoption. This is the consequence of what I said was that, as in the title, a new, better convention was adopted by the Council of Europe, which describes all the threats today in this area. It is very good because the Polish Sejm adopted a new law in 2009 and wrote a completely new law on the security of mass events, including football matches in particular. It was written in the perspective of the 2012 final tournament. She fits in very well, and these experiences of Poland, you can see, in this convention have already been taken into account. Of course, there are also some additional elements that are important. I think that the most important general element is that today, if this convention is ratified by European countries, we will be better able to guarantee security in the stadiums in Poland, but also outside our country, together, because there will be a better flow of information, there will be a better channel between police services. This is happening today, but on the basis of, let's say, some kind of bilateral exchange and additional arrangements. Today, these conventions will be an obligation to ensure that this flow of information, data about fans who are banned from the stadium in Poland, is outside the borders of our country, and those hooligans that we do not want to host at matches in Poland, also our services, our organizers will be able to exclude. So this is going towards an international stadium ban to... There was a situation that a person sentenced by a court in Poland, who had several years of ban on these events, could go to a match in Dortmund or Munich or Paris and participate in it. That's what we should... This is an additional closure of this punishment, it will become more severe. This convention also, as I said at an earlier point, describes those threats that we have so far associated only with stadiums. Today at the stadiums we have a new technique, we have surveillance, we have a completely different approach. The police don't go there right away, just like they used to. There are information services, flight attendants. So there's no provocation that we've all been paying attention to, but there's a more theatrical approach to the fan. On the other hand, some threats and bad phenomena have emerged outside the stadiums, on the way to the game and from the game. And in my opinion, it's all re-defined in this document. There are also new regulations here, interesting, concerning the licensing of stadiums. So I think that our experiences, with all these records, with closure, after the adoption of this convention by all European countries, hopefully, will make Poland even safer in stadiums. That is why there has been no controversy, and that is why all the Members of these two committees recommend that the High House adopt and ratify the new Council of Europe Convention. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u251	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Matuszewski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u252	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I was honoured to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's bill of ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to security, security and service during football matches and other sports events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016, signed by the Minister of Sport and Tourism of the Republic of Poland on 29 November 2016, print No 1408. The purpose of ratification of the new Convention is to prevent incidents and disturbances of public order which pose a threat to the lives and health of persons participating in football matches and other sporting events. This is the consequence of the termination of the de-newed international agreement of 1985. In line with the need to ratify the above-mentioned provisions, The Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and handling during football matches and other sporting events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016, signed by the Minister of Sport and Tourism of the Republic of Poland on 29 November 2016, print No 1408, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the above mentioned. a draft law and brings it to the High House for its adoption. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to security, security and service during football and other sporting events in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016, signed by the Minister of Sport and Tourism of the Republic of Poland on 29 November 2016, print No 1408. On the issue of this new convention, which really changes the old solutions, the rapporteur of the committee has already spoken on this issue. The purpose of this ratification is to prevent incidents and disturbances of public order, but also to address new challenges that concern the issue of fans' problems, especially football fans, because it is not only a question of the sports arena itself, where, from the point of view of safety, the development of the issue of monitoring these problems is becoming less and less. But what is really crucial in terms of European security is the flow of information between individual countries, federations, so that really these real hooligans eliminate not only in Poland or in other countries, but also so that those people in such events cannot participate in other countries. It is simply a matter of sharing this information directly with one another. As I have already said, the adoption of this project is a consequence of the up-to-date 1985 agreement. So that the Civic Platform club supports the above mentioned. a draft law and brings it to the High House for its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u255	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz club15, Mr Maciej Masławski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Following the presentation by the rapporteur of the committee, President Ireneusz Bres, of what we did in committee and what the bill concerns, nothing more can be added than the fact that Kukiz will fully support this bill. We like these new solutions that are being introduced, well, but it's natural of course, the technique is moving forward, so we are very much in favour, we support and we do not make any comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u257	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Modern Club, Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to security, security and service during football matches and other sports events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016, signed by the Minister of Sport and Tourism of the Republic of Poland on 29 November 2016, following the presentation of a report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, print No 1408 and 1470. High Izbo! This bill concerns the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the Council of Europe Convention, which I mentioned just now. This is a new international agreement, which aims, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, to prevent incidents and disturbances of public order that pose a threat to the lives and health of people participating in football matches and other sporting events. The scope of the matters covered by this new agreement has so far been partly regulated in the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sporting events, and in particular football matches, from 1985, but because the Convention did not meet the contemporary challenges, a new agreement has been drawn up which is the subject of this debate. At the same time, as we know, there is a procedure in the Sejm for the termination of the previous convention. The new Convention introduces a number of changes taking into account contemporary knowledge of the safety of sporting events. Here we should mention, for example, the holistic, integrated, system-based concept of safety management, as opposed to the individualisation of tasks so far, or the emphasis in the new Convention on the importance of properly trained cleaning and information services. The new agreement also draws attention to the importance of risk estimation and the implementation of preventive measures as a necessary attribute of a safe sporting event. And again, this is a positive distinction between the present Convention and the previous approach, i.e. direct interventions that may be a trigger and cause an escalation of violence. A new element in the Convention Regulatory Area is also an indication of the importance of cooperation with fans and the importance of proper service of the sports viewer. They're anti-aggression factors. In the light of the facts cited, ratification of the Convention should be considered to be deliberate. In view of the above, the Posel Club Modern consents to ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Convention and will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Baszko will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position towards the Government's bill of ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to security, security and service during football matches and other sporting events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016, signed by the Minister of Sport and Tourism of the Republic of Poland on 29 November 2016, prints No 1408 and 1470. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Standing Committee of the Council of Europe has developed a proposal for a new Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and handling during football and other sporting events. The Convention describes the basic principles, assumptions and security measures based on the current state of knowledge and good practices. The new Convention reflects the view that focusing solely on threats does not lead to effective risk reduction. A more effective solution is the implementation of both security and security measures as well as the proper service of viewers. Both factors strongly affect the behaviour of fans. The overarching principle of the Convention is an integrated multi-party approach to security, based on three pillars: security, security and service, and cooperation between all other institutions and stakeholders. The new Council of Europe Convention introduces innovative solutions to improve the security of mass events and the service of their viewers. Mr. Marshal! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party does not comment and is in favour of the above. a draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u261	Thank you very much. In order to ask the question, Mr Norbert Obrycki entered the list. Is he in the O.R.? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. I therefore close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u262	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Stadium violence, hooligan acts are not new and rare. I think they happen in every European country. What's new... is terrorist attacks targeting fans as well as football players. Please say: How does the Council of Europe plan to fight the threatening terrorist attacks carried out during stadiums or in fan zones, such as we have seen in France or recently in Germany?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u263	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Government's draft law on combating doping in sport (prints No 1184 and 1474). I ask Mr Jarosław Nobletka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, I present a report on the Government's draft law on combating doping in sport, contained in print No 1184. On 3 January 2017, the Marshal of the Sejm referred the draft to his first reading at the plenary session of the Sejm. The Sejm at its 35th meeting on 9 February 2017 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the draft to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism for consideration. One of the main objectives of the project is the establishment of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency, POLADA, instead of the present Commission for Combating Doping in Sport. Giving the new agency the status of a state legal person supervised by the Minister of Sport and Tourism offers more opportunities to solve the problems of the way in which the institution is financed, which should deal with the fight against doping. This will also allow for additional funding for ongoing activities related to the fight against doping in both professional and mass sports - children, young people and adults. The project allows for the exchange of information and close cooperation between police officers, Border Guards, Military Gendarmerie or National Tax Administration. This will enable the Agency to conduct its own doping investigations effectively. The authors of the project also provide for the creation of a Disciplinary Panel at the agency to settle matters concerning doping in sport. This is undoubtedly an improvement in the quality of case law in the application of illegal doping. So far, Polish sports unions have ruled on these matters. This was a kind of puriazum, because it can be seen as a decision in its own affairs. We know of cases when after one or the other incident has been quieted down, like who did, for example. in the Polish trucking union, previously sanctioned punishments for players were withdrawn or reduced. Therefore, this condition influenced a low assessment of the Polish system of disciplinary case law in matters of doping. It was an expression, among other things. a large number of cases of actions against the judgments of Polish sports unions by the World Anti-Doping Agency, WADA, or the Arbitration Tribunal on the Sports at the PKO or the Court in Lausanne. The project prepared by the Ministry of Sport enables services such as the Police, Customs Service to be more effective in detecting and prosecuting the smuggling and trafficking of doping substances prohibited in sport, and in particular steroids, which are increasingly interested in organised crime groups as an alternative to drug trafficking. Such records certainly meet today's challenges in the fight for pure sport of professionals and amateurs. The legal situation of the agency's anti-doping controllers has also been clearly and concretely identified. They shall be protected in the performance of their duties or in connection with their duties and shall be subject to the criminal liability provided for by the Penal Code for public officials. Ladies and gentlemen! At its meeting on 22 February this year. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism has set up an extraordinary sub-committee for detailed consideration of the abovementioned. a draft law. In the course of the legislative work at the subcommittee meeting, amendments were tabled and adopted concerning, inter alia, prevention of general, distracting players from the intention to use substances or methods prohibited in sport, to enable the Minister responsible for physical culture to co-finance actions to counter doping in sport, to increase the maximum limit of state budget expenditure to combat doping in sport. The bill is, for the time being, a very innovative, modern document when it comes to solving the problem of combating doping in sport, in legislation, in state law. I am convinced that it will be a cure for activities that have nothing to do with sport today. Players who engage in unauthorised methods to improve their fitness and thus achieve sporting results at the cost of health, honor, disillusionment of fans and discredit of sports authorities, as well as state authorities, must consider it to be treated and judged as a normal common crime. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism at its meeting on 6 April considered the above draft law and adopted a report on amendments to the editorial nature. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In conclusion, I would like to say that the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism asks the High House to adopt a draft law on combating doping in sport, contained in the report, in print No 1474. I'm asking the High House to do this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u265	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek Falfus will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u266	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I was honored to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law on combating doping in sport, print No 1184. The main objective of the draft government law was to introduce and separate provisions allowing effective fight against the use of doping by athletes, which on the other hand obviously resulted in the establishment of a Polish Anti-Doping Agency, whose main objective will be to combat doping comprehensively, including its organisation and financial economy. On 3 January 2017, the Sejm referred the project to its first reading. In the course of the legislative work, amendments were tabled and accepted concerning, inter alia, a general prevention, distracting players from the intention to use substances or methods prohibited in sport, to enable the Minister responsible for physical culture to co-finance actions to counter doping in sport, to increase the maximum limit of state budget expenditure to combat doping. All these issues were also raised by the rapporteur. Therefore, my dear marshal, High Izbo, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice regarding the adoption of a draft law on combating doping in sport, I propose that the Act be passed by the High Sejm. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u267	Thank you. Mr Szymon Ziółkowski will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to present my position on the report of the subcommittee on the government draft act on combating doping in sport. High Seym! The bill we're discussing today is a step in the right direction. Doping is the biggest cancer that runs sports all over the world. Nearly every day we learn about the next cases of cheering in the background. Unfortunately, often the heroes of these reports are Polish athletes. We had this example during the recent Olympic Games, which we regretted to see here, in the Chamber, the Olympic Champion, also an MEP, Adam Korol. I am convinced that for these accidents to be less, integrated actions of many environments are very much needed. Of course, the establishment of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency will certainly be one of them, but a very important element is that the creation of an anti-doping panel, which will take over, will take responsibility for the application of disciplinary penalties to players and persons involved in the application of prohibited measures, because often relationships have had a big problem with being a judge in their own case, and these judgments were not always what they should have been. Let us hope that this panel will indeed be an impartial panel, so that these judgments and those judgments are as they should be. But we have to remember one more thing: the disciplinary penalties alone will not solve the problem of doping, because doping does not exist only in competitive sport, which we are able to judge here. Doping doesn't just occur in professional sports. Doping takes place in amateur sports, in veteran sports. The phenomenon of doping is also present among the moving, in common, since Christmas. These cases of doping are particularly dangerous to health. It can be assumed that athletes professionally practicing sports and using doping are usually tested and should be healthy - well, with this health it may not be quite good when it comes to mental health, since they take illicit measures and risk their entire sport career in order to achieve a little more success than would have been achieved without prohibited means - but in the case of amateurs, often abducted e.g. to start in a marathon or in a triathlon without proper preparation, without research, supporting with an prohibited agent can be very dangerous to health and sometimes it will end tragically. Therefore, it is very important in the fight against doping to inform and educate not only professional athletes or even young adepts who start their adventure with sport, but also everyone. In modern times, people who are not associated with sport often reach for doping faster and faster - to keep up with them. Without knowing about the consequences, about the risks, sometimes they reach for measures that really in a very drastic way are able to affect their later life. It is a very important and important element of the fight against doping: awareness of what is doping; the fact that doping is not only this magic pill, but also almost every dietary supplement or medicine available in any home pharmacy. I hope that the new law, the new anti-doping agency, will have a clear share in this too. The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the bill, hoping that this will affect the Polish professional sport to be free from compromises related to doping, and amateur - healthy and conscious. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u269	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masławski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the act on combating doping in sport. Of course we support this bill, absolutely. We're not making any comments. I also wanted to stress, in principle, thank you, to commend the work in committee, because I enjoyed working in committee on this bill. It was extremely substantive, I think, largely thanks to our athletes who participated in the work of this committee and who spoke from experience. So we are very much in favour of this and we are not making any comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński will speak on behalf of the Modern Club. There's no envoy. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień from the Modern Club. She's not here either. Therefore, Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko from the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government proposal for a law on combating doping in sport, prints no. 1184 and 1474. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What's cheering? This is an artificial increase in the physical and mental fitness of the player by methods that go beyond normal training. Medical methods that are harmful to health are considered as doping, officially prohibited. Doping is widely used in various sports. Side effects of doping They're very big. Its misuse can result in loss of health, disability, and even premature death. The use of doping every year is becoming more sophisticated. Fighting illegal doping is a continuous race between the use of new prohibited methods and their detection. After 6 years of validity of the Sports Act, which contained provisions on combating doping, it was decided to draw up a separate law devoted exclusively to the subject matter in which issues in this field were comprehensively regulated. According to the draft law, the main tasks of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency are: to define the principles and conduct of anti-doping control; to lay down disciplinary rules on doping in sport; to plan and carry out anti-doping control during and outside professions; to train and improve the qualifications of anti-doping agency controllers; to grant consent to the use by a player of a given prohibited substance or method; to develop, implement and support educational, information and training programmes for combating doping in sport; to evaluate projects, draft laws and draft laws on combating doping in sport; to cooperate with foreign institutions involved in combating doping in sport; to cooperate with public administrations, research institutes and other actors in the field of doping in sport. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law adapts the definitions to the current provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code. The draft act on combating doping in sport was considered by an extraordinary subcommittee to consider the government draft act on combating doping in sport. I would like to stress that no point has been missed, everyone has been carefully considered, chapter by chapter, article by article, and the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism has adopted a draft law on combating doping in sport. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party does not comment and is in favour of the above-mentioned bill on combating doping in sport. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u273	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order for the anti-doping system in Poland to be described as indisputable and credible, a thorough reconstruction of the law is needed. This is what guarantees the bill under discussion today. Its main aim is to establish an existing Commission for Combating Doping in Sport and the offices of one institution - the Polish Anti-Doping Agency, institutions with a new, enhanced scope of competence, with new rights and obligations, with new opportunities both in terms of ways of acting and financing these activities. I have already expressed my support for this step in my previous position. There is no doubt for me that it is necessary to make changes to the current system, which will increase the transparency of Polish sport in terms of the use and detection of illicit substances. Sport is one of our greatest national goods, it is necessary to take measures to promote respect for the principles of fair competition and to maintain its transparency. The law that we are looking at will certainly give the doping fighters more efficient tools and will help to improve the effectiveness of this fight. During the committee's work on this project, a number of amendments were made to its content, among them. as obvious as the requirement of non-punishment for doping in sport from candidates for director of POLIDA, controllers and members of the disciplinary panel. The Minister responsible for physical culture has also been given the opportunity to co-finance actions to counter doping in sport and to increase the maximum expenditure of the state budget for combating doping in the coming years. In my opinion, these changes will only benefit from fulfilling the original purpose of this law. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u275	Thank you. Now on behalf of the club, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Poselski Club on the report of the committee on the government draft law on combating doping in sport. I am pleased with the very well-run work on the draft law of such importance for Polish sport. As Marek Ruciński mentioned at the first reading of the project, the problem of doping is seen all over the world and legal steps are being taken almost everywhere to combat this negative phenomenon. It is difficult at the modern level of medical technology to completely eliminate doping in sport, but I am of the opinion that despite difficulties you should try to fight unfair competition for the good of sport and, above all, for the health of young players. I have always known that sport should unite, and I am pleased that this project was adopted unanimously in committee, without unnecessary disputes, and Members have agreed to a restrictive approach to this problem. Clear and restrictive anti-doping rules will work not only in a preventive way for some people considering supporting illicit substances, but will also make it easier for controllers who may in many cases face unnecessary difficulties. We must remember that sport is a fair competition that promotes the development of all participants. If one of the people is assisted in an illegal way, it violates not only legal standards, but above all ethical standards and should therefore be eliminated from further competition. Since the Modern supports all fair play activities and believes that doping should be punished as harshly as possible, and the proposed changes to the rules fit into the modern vision of sport, we will, of course, support the contested law. I hope it will be a unanimous vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u277	Thank you very much. The questions have been addressed by four gentlemen... not four Members. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill has given rise to the appointment of Minister Bianca as European candidate for the Executive Committee of the World Anti-Doping Agency, which I congratulate you on. I have a few questions after the changes made at committee meetings to the bill. What will be the maximum expenditure limit for the state budget to combat doping in sport? To what extent are financial penalties imposed on athletes who have been caught using doping in other European countries? And I would also like to ask the Minister what are the chances of Katowice being the organizer and venue of the World Anti-Doping Congress in 2019. When will the decisions be made on this matter? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u279	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for the applicants, Mr. Minister. Is the Ministry of Sport, either in agreement with the Ministry of Justice, planning further work on tightening penalties for players who have been sentenced to disqualification? So far, only a disqualification penalty exists in Poland, which prevents further competitions from taking place. Do we anticipate any work going on, e.g. towards the return of funds received by the player from the state budget? As you know, in some cases these amounts are invaluable. In some cases, as we know, it is also a public stealing of the state, about the loss of the image of Poland, not to mention. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u281	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Adam Korol, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u282	Dear Marshal, Minister! I have a question about the activities of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency. One of her responsibilities is to issue a TUE. What if the player is e.g., I don't know, in the grouping abroad and it's the TUE he's going to need, because he's going to be getting closer and he's going to be injured and he needs a measure that's on the list of prohibited measures? Of course, you can take such a measure and apply for a retroactive TEU, but it is burdened with a certain amount of uncertainty whether this retroactive TEU will be awarded later. So what I'm asking is, will only the agency be able to issue this TUE, or will the representation doctor or doctors who are accredited by WADA in the country? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u283	Thank you very much. And the last question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Just a quick question. What educational and information programmes, which trainings were planned by the Ministry for the current year and the following years for the education of athletes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u285	Thank you very much. The Minister of Sport and Tourism, Mr Witold Bianka, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the positive position and recommendations of all clubs regarding the government's anti-doping law in sport. This project is very expected in the sport environment, which not only improves the efficiency of the fight against doping in our country, but also strengthens the image of Poland as a country leading a determined policy for honesty in such an extremely important sphere of public life as sport. I would just like to remind you that the fundamental principles of this project concern the establishment of a Polish Anti-Doping Agency - strong, equipped with broad competences and appropriate financial and human resources - and also the creation of legal conditions for cooperation, including investigative, agencies with services such as the Police or Customs and Treasury, and finally to allow the prosecution by the relevant doping services to prosecute the most dangerous substances banned or traded in our country. This law also serves to professionalise anti-doping control activities, firstly by setting high standards for training and testing of controllers, secondly, by assigning them legal protection and the responsibilities of public officials. It is also important to sanction the new entity structure in the law on disciplinary matters concerning doping in sport, where the Polish sports unions are replaced by the Disciplinar Panel operating at the agency. These solutions represent a huge step towards building a strong and reliable anti-doping system that is recognizable worldwide. I would also like to inform the High House that the draft law on combating doping in sport has been notified to the European Commission under number 2017/6/PL. Penal provisions, provisions concerning the processing of personal data during the anti-doping control and the definition of doping in sport are covered by the notification. Mandatory period of suspension of the legislative procedure, so-called Standstill, for this notification, expired on 6 April 2017. During this period no comments or specific opinions were submitted to the project. With regard to the questions of the ladies and gentlemen of the House. So briefly, in terms of Katowice's chances of organizing, hosting the World Anti-Doping Agency Congress in 2019, the chances are very high. Our opponents are Geneva and Maskat, the capital of Oman. We believe deeply, at least we will do everything we can to get this convention to take place in Katowice. We're gonna try, and I'm positive, and I believe that's what's gonna happen, that the odds are pretty good. As far as expenditure is concerned, this limit is due to legal consequences and we have often stressed that we will try this expenditure on the fight against doping, also on the functioning of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency, to strengthen. This also serves to change the legal formula. Let me remind you that POLADA will have the status of a state legal person, i.e. it will also be able to raise external resources, even from UNESCO funds, from WADA funds, from EU funds. We therefore firmly believe that the Agency's budget will continue to grow. What it will be will also depend on the efficiency of functioning of the agency, especially as it will be able to provide services to entities that organize various sports events in Poland. With regard to the financial consequences of players caught in cheering measures, this change and this kind of direction, i.e. enforcement from players of financial claims for preparation, does not require statutory changes. We want to make such records so that they operate in agreements between sports unions and players, between the ministry and unions, and the unions would have to enforce it from players. I think that, in the case of contracts, we will try, after these legislative arrangements have been introduced, in the context of the next year, to ask sports unions to make such records appear. So the player caught in the doping would be obliged to return certain funds that the union had to pay for its preparation. I think this is the next step that is worth doing, and here we are in agreement. As far as the TEU is concerned, this system works retroactively. Only the agency and only the international sports federation can grant such therapeutic exemptions. These are WADA standards, so there's no possibility of any change here. These are world standards we can't interfere with. As far as educational projects are concerned, they are already functioning. The Commission is undertaking a number of educational activities related to awareness of the effects of doping. We also plan to implement such projects next year, and we also want to do so with sports unions. We have adequate funding for this type of action to take, to educate about the impact of the use of doping measures. Finally, I would like to thank the High House for the very substantive and well-managed work on the government bill on combating doping in sport. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u287	Thank you very much. Until the third reading of the bill... And I'm sorry, but the committee rapporteur came forward. Mr Jarosław Nobletka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u288	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I, too, would like to thank the Minister and the entire team of vice-ministers from this point on. Mr Stawiarski was present at the meetings of the subcommittee. From this point also the words of appreciation, thanks to Director Rafał Piechota, to the members of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, members of the subcommittee during which we met. Indeed, the discussion of the project, which was presented by the Minister, was conducted in a substantive manner by Members - especially our Olympians - from the representative of the Minister of Sport, from the Sejm Analysis Office and those who participated in our meetings. Thank you for that. I hope that the plans that the Minister has said here, especially regarding the WADA Convention - I wish this for the sake of the whole sport, the whole sport family, our Polish, national but also international - will come true and that Poland will host this important sporting event for the whole world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u289	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Law on Social Insurance Money Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity (prints No 1350 and No 1422). I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft law amending the act on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity, print no. 1350. On 28 February 2017, the above draft law entered the Sejm. March 8th this year was addressed to first reading in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. March 23rd this year. The first reading of the draft Print Act No 1350 took place at the meeting of the committee in question. The procedure of the bill at this meeting was interrupted in order to agree on the date of entry into force of the law. The draft was examined at a committee meeting on 5 April 2017 and the committee's report is in print No 1422. High Izbo! The project includes changes to the Social Insurance Money Insurance Act in case of illness and maternity resulting from an analysis of the functioning of existing solutions, as well as comments and postulates of the medical environment and current possibilities of the Social Insurance Institution. I would like to remind you that from 1 January 2016, medical certificates of temporary incapacity for work may be issued in electronic form and in the form of a paper document, except that it will only be possible to issue them in paper form until 31 December 2017. Designed regulations allow the issuing of medical certificates to circumvent barriers related to difficulties in handling and accessing the profile of trusted ePUAP and avoid costs related to the purchase of qualified electronic signatures. A new, simpler way to authenticate electronic medical certificates is introduced in the proposed solutions. The Social Insurance Institution shall make available to doctors free of charge its electronic system, by which it can be confirmed, the correctness of the issuing of the medical certificate. This form will also apply to four documents, which are a medical certificate on incapacity for work issued in electronic form, a statement by doctors of an obligation to comply with the rules on temporary incapacity to work and the obligations arising from the provisions of the Social Insurance Money Insurance Act in the event of sickness, maternity and the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, a certificate by the Medical Advocate of the Social Security Office stating that there are no objections to working on a specific post, an application for the grant and payment of benefits in the form of an electronic document. The proposed regulations aim to improve the practice of switching from paper to electronic documents. And it should be noted that the new form of issuing a medical certificate on temporary incapacity to work using the means of confirming the origin and integrity of the data available in the electronic system of the Social Insurance Institution will meet the safety standards that are used for similar services offered by the public administration in Poland. High Izbo! The contested draft law at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy was unanimously approved, so the committee asks the High House to adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u291	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Law and Justice on the Act on benefits in case of illness, print No 1350, and the report of the committee, print No 1422. Since I have just presented my report, the committee's report, I just want to say that the Law and Justice Club is positive about this bill. Thank you very much. I'd like to place such technical amendments on your hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u293	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Henczyca, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Act of 25 June 1999 on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity governs the rules for the granting of sickness benefits, the way in which they are calculated and the rules for documenting the right to those benefits. The amendment of this law, which took place in 2015, introduced alongside the existing new form of medical certificate on temporary incapacity for work due to illness, hospital stay or the need to take care of a sick family member providing evidence in determining the right to benefits and their amount. From 1 January 2016, medical certificates on temporary incapacity for work may be issued in electronic form and during a transitional period, i.e. until 31 December 2017, also in their current form, on printed matter. The medical certificate shall bear a qualified electronic signature or a signature confirmed by a trusted ePUAP profile via the IT system of the ZUS. However, a qualified electronic signature is a paid tool. An alternative method of authentication of an electronic medical certificate is the use of a free profile of trusted ePUAP, which is time-consuming and complicated. After analysing how the solutions work, also taking into account the medical environment's demands and the current possibilities of the ZUS, it is proposed to introduce a new, additional and simpler way of authentication electronic medical certificates. As a result of the proposed regulations, the medical certificate will be issued in the form of an electronic document signed using the means of confirming the origin and integrity of the data and available in the electronic system made available free of charge by the Social Security Office. The number of medical certificates issued in electronic form should therefore increase, which is important both from a financial perspective and from the perspective of strengthening the desired attitude among the participants in this process. Designed amendment of the article. 59 (1) (a) 9 The aim of the Act is to enable the medical examiner of the ZUS to issue a certificate which is treated on an equal footing with a certificate stating that there are no contraindications to work on a particular post, in the form of an electronic document signed with a qualified electronic signature, with a signature confirmed by a trusted profile of ePUAP or using the means of confirming the origin and integrity of the data available in the IT system of the ZUS. It should also be noted that the proposed amendments do not block the possibility of implementing the target solution of the Medical Specialist's Charter. The proposed solution to issue a medical certificate on temporary incapacity to work using the method of confirming the origin and integrity of the data available in the IT system of the ZUS will meet the level of safety that is used for similar services offered by the public administration in Poland. Our suggestion was that the Act should enter into force on 1 December 2017, and not, as proposed, on 1 July, so that the ZUS would prepare to implement this amendment. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club recommends adopting amendments to the above Act. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u295	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the act on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity, print no 1350. Since the beginning of 2016, the patient could theoretically have received a doctor's release issued in accordance with the existing rules, either on a paper form or in electronic form. Theoretically, the process of electronic sick leave service was supposed to make life easier for both doctors and patients, but unfortunately it did not look so pink in practice: electronic systems purchased - I'll add - for hundreds of thousands of millions. Despite spending by the Social Security Office each year on an average of 600 million per year on ICT services, e.g. In 2016, in terms of medical leave issued electronically, this was less than 2% All layoffs. Systems purchased and operated for 600 million a year do not act or reduce bureaucracy. Currently, an electronic medical certificate may be issued by a doctor in the form of a document bearing a qualified electronic signature or a signature endorsed by a trusted ePUAP profile in accordance with the model established by the Social Security Office. However, a qualified electronic signature is a paid tool, and the cost of purchasing a set of such signatures is additionally charged to the doctor, apart from the fact that the taxpayers' money has already been spent for this purpose. An alternative method of authentication of an electronic medical certificate is the use of a free profile of trusted ePUAP, but in the assessment issuing medical certificates the use of ePUAP profile is time-consuming and the tool is very complex in its operation. The new rules allow the issuing of medical certificates to circumvent barriers related to handling and access to the profile of trusted ePUAP, as well as costs related to the purchase of qualified electronic signatures. For this purpose, a new way of confirming the origin and integrity of data available in the IT system made available free of charge by the Social Security Office will be used. Of course, Kukiz15 will support this law, it will support this amendment, because it can only make life easier for citizens to live. They won't have to go to the doctor or deliver them to their employers for medical certificates. However, using this opportunity, it is worth recalling that so far Polish taxpayers spent nearly PLN 4 billion on IT systems, for the computerization of ZUS. For imaging: 1 hour of maintenance of computers and systems in the ZUS costs 90,000. zł. Also for imaging, to see what the amount is, I calculated what it looks like when it comes to where the money comes from. We have in Poland less than 2 million small companies and single-person activities, which pay a pension fee of PLN 499 per month. If we multiply this contribution, we get about 800 million. It means that single-person companies that pay a contribution to their pensions, actually instead of paying for those pensions, simply keep computers in the ZUS. So I'm going to end with the question: How much is the next revision of the IT systems and whether someone will then be responsible for the wrong and impractical systems bought with money, which could be used for example. for the execution of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal on the compensation of allowances for persons caring for adults with disabilities who currently receive PLN 520 and should receive PLN 1400? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u297	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u298	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Modern Club the position of the Modern on the proposal to amend the Act on Social Insurance Cash Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity. The case concerns more than 16 million citizens and citizens, including doctors, contributors and insured persons in the Social Security Office. The current Act of 15 May 2015 amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity and certain other laws allowed new functionalities to be made available to doctors, allowing electronic sick leave to be issued on the ZUS Electronic Services Platform. It was a step forward that everyone was waiting for. Unfortunately, we're outnumbered by technology. Since 1 January 2016, doctors may issue medical certificates on temporary incapacity to work in electronic form, but in their opinion, a serious barrier to the use of electronic medical certificates is the need to authenticate sick leave by means of a fairly complex profile of trusted ePUAP or paid qualified electronic signature. After analysing the way the solutions work, also taking into account the medical environment's demands and the current possibilities of the ZUS, the applicant proposed to introduce a new way of authentication of medical certificates issued in electronic form. The proposed amendments are intended to allow the use of the means of confirming the origin and integrity of the data available in the electronic system made available free of charge by the Social Insurance Institution for the signing of electronic medical certificates, the statements issuing medical certificates of obligation to comply with the rules on temporary incapacity for work and the performance of obligations arising from the provisions of the Social Insurance Act in the case of sickness and maternity and personal data protection provisions in the form of an electronic document, the certificate of the juror of the Social Insurance Institution, which shall be treated on an equal footing with a certificate stating that there is no contraindication to work on a particular post, in the form of an electronic document, and the application for the granting and payment of benefits, in the form of an electronic document. During the first reading of the draft, which took place in committee, two amendments were introduced: one technical legislative amendment and the other concerning the date of entry into force of the law, which was extended by several months. These were good amendments and the committee adopted them unanimously. Modern voted in favour. In our view, such solutions are needed, necessary for the proper functioning of public utility bodies in a civilised world. We'll support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u300	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the act on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity, prints no. 1350 and 1422. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed amendments are intended to lead to the widespread use of electronic sick leave. The project prepared in the family and work department assumes that, in addition to the existing methods of signing such redundancies sent to the ZUS by electronic means, the plant will provide the possibility to sign them by means of its own system. It all sounds very optimistic, but the data speaks for itself. Although e-releases have been possible since last year, so far more than 500 thousand have been received by the US. such electronic documents. Doctors are dissatisfied with the government's proposal, in their opinion the proposed IT system is too complicated. What does that mean? In practice, larger queues, because the doctor, instead of spending time with the patient, has to deal with electronic bureaucracy. To make matters worse, the Ministry of Health consistently ignores the repeated comments of the medical community. Maybe because he's afraid of questions like: What if a doctor doesn't have access to the Internet in a health centre outside a big city? How's he gonna handle it? Another issue concerns qualified electronic signature, additionally paid or complex profile of trusted ZUS. Full agreement with the medical community - the doctor is to treat, not spend time on bureaucracy, especially when many patients are waiting in line. The new system must not extend the queues. There is another issue that is a challenge, but it cannot be resolved legislatively. Patients need to adjust their reasoning. Today many ask for the release of traditional paper, fearing that e-release will simply not reach their employer. Paradoxically, it is also a challenge for those who will implement the new system. If you can do it It's okay, people will trust him faster. Dear Marshal, High Seym! The Polish People's Party Club, taking into account the proposed changes that were presented in the project, will support the procedated bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u301	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Social Insurance Money Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity. The aim of the project is to improve the ongoing process of switching doctors authorised to issue certificates of incapacity to work from paper to electronic form. According to the rules in force, the complete transition to the electronic system is due to end with the end of 2017. However, as the designers point out, due to the barriers encountered, such as those encountered. the need to buy an electronic signature as a form of authentication or complicated authentication procedures using the ePUAP profile, this process is very slow. This amendment introduces a third option to the existing solutions. It assumes that doctors of the IT system of the ZUS can be made available free of charge by means of which it would be possible to authenticate the electronic documents issued. The issue and delivery of medical certificates of temporary incapacity for work in electronic form is essential for control purposes. I am aware that the current paper form of short-term sick leave practically prevents the Social Insurance Institution from verifying the correct use of them, which makes medical sick leave not always used as intended, which causes measurable losses in the economy, let alone entrepreneurs. Therefore, I consider the solutions proposed in the revision to be right. It is important that, as expected by the current transitional period in which both available forms of sick leave apply, it ends this year and that doctors authorised to issue certificates have the appropriate tools. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u303	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very slow to switch doctors from issuing traditional paper certificates of incapacity for work to issuing electronic layoffs. So-called e-releases are less than 3% authorised doctors. The system isn't working properly. Do the new implementation deadlines laid down in the new law guarantee that this interest rate will be 100%? Isn't the time limit gonna cause chaos? In my view, this is too short a term. I know that the Social Insurance Institution is very careful when it comes to the introduction of new solutions and the operation of the new system. And did the Ministry also recognize the problems on the part of doctors who were releasing them? And I wanted to ask you, was there a public consultation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. [[There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. Please, Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! No one seems to have any doubts as to the appropriateness of introducing medical certificates and sick leave in the form of electronic certificates. All stakeholders are talking about the benefits of this solution in different dimensions. And although this is a possibility since 1 January 2016, it is unfortunately a small percentage, because - as we heard - approx. 3% It took advantage of it. There are several reasons. I wanted to ask you about the one that was the least discussed during the committee's work, which is certainly an important problem signaled by doctors. They are the ones who pay attention to the malfunction of the system, which takes too much time for them, especially when approving this operation. This time could be spent on patients. Hence my question: Have you taken this problem into account in the proposed amendments to the Act and simplified the approval procedure for this operation in the new system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u307	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have three questions about this bill. When proposing a new simplified authentication system for medical certificates issued in electronic form, have the solutions applied in other countries been taken into account? What is the index of electronic medical certificates in the rich countries of the European Union compared to the total certificate index? And last question: What is the purpose of this project? What will this indicator be in Poland after implementation of the law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u309	Thank you. Please, Mrs Maria Zuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that the existing law allows one of the two possible methods of authentication of a medical certificate to be used in this system? One method is the use of a paid qualified electronic signature. This solution involves the need to bear costs, unfortunately these costs are borne by doctors. The second possibility to authenticate an electronic medical certificate is free of charge, but the possibility of using a free profile of trusted ePUAP is less used. Unfortunately, it is a time-consuming and complicated operation, as one of the messengers spoke here. On the other hand, the law in force today also allows doctors to issue electronic sick leave on the platform of electronic services ZUS. And is it true that the changes currently proposed by the government in the certification system in the form of an electronic document eliminate obstacles and eliminate costs in the system so far borne by doctors? The possibility for doctors to use this proposed system today will free them from costs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u311	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of all parliamentary clubs for their unanimity, for the unanimous support of the government's draft law amending the Social Insurance Money Insurance Act in the event of illness and maternity. It can be said that the need to amend this law is due to the unsatisfactory pace of implementation of the new form of medical certificates on incapacity for work, namely electronic form. As was mentioned in the discussion, we are in transition. This transitional period started on 1 January 2016. During this transitional period doctors are entitled to issue medical certificates in two forms, i.e. in traditional, paper and electronic form. The current pace of implementation of the electronic form, which, according to current legislation, will be the only form of medical certification from 1 January 2018, is simply unsatisfactory. I would like to confirm the data that were presented today. Less than 3% doctors authorised to issue medical certificates shall use electronic form. Less than 3% of medical certificates on incapacity for work are certificates which are issued in this form. Actually, it's the rate of implementation of the so-called. e-releases, e-releases issued in electronic form, we already regard today as too slow to achieve this goal, which is simply the full implementation of the new electronic form from 1 January 2018. Hence, our concern is to ensure that any possible barriers, including financial, also organisational, related to the implementation of the so-called. remove e-releases. Among the barriers that are pointed out by the environmental stakeholders themselves, i.e. the medical environment, two barriers are mentioned: the financial barrier associated with the use of the so-called. e-signatures and organisational barriers related to the time-consuming use of the trusted ePUAP profile. Hence the need whether we considered it necessary to correct the two existing authentication mechanisms for medical certificates and there is a need to introduce a third mechanism using the Social Insurance Institution's IT system. According to the original wording of the government project, the date of entry into force of the draft law discussed today was scheduled for 1 July 2017 and was maintained during parliamentary work in the Parliamentary Committee. It turned out that the changes necessary for the IT system of the Social Insurance Institution, its adaptation to new functionalities, are time-consuming enough that it is not possible to implement or implement this project by 1 July 2017, hence, during the work of the parliamentary committee, this deadline at the request of the Social Insurance Institution, at the request of the Social Insurance Institution was postponed to 1 December 2017. I would like to address the questions raised during the discussion. With regard to the question of the date of entry into force of the Act, I have the impression that I have explained why the deadline was being postponed. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the delay to 1 December 2017 entails that this new form of medical sick leave authentication will allow doctors to benefit in the short term, it can be said, before this planned deadline, from which the electronic release will be the only form of issuing such exemptions. Let me remind you, I was talking about this, 1 January 2018, so we are actually dealing with a situation in which one month before the end of this so-called. This transitional period, you can say, new functionality, a new form of authentication of medical certificates will be applicable. In the course of the discussion, the Member representing the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, tabled an amendment which provides for a six-month delay in this transitional period by 1 July 2018 or by 30 June 2018. I would like to say that, from the point of view of this, it is possible to extend this transitional period and to allow doctors to use this new form of authentication of the medical certificates issued, this is a rational solution, but there will, as I understand it, be an opportunity to discuss this issue during the session of the Parliamentary Committee, where this amendment will be discussed. As regards the question of improving the authentication of medical certificates, I would like to say here that this issue has also been discussed with the Minister of Health. It is also a problem of some compatibility of systems or, more specifically, the software used by doctors and software used by the Social Insurance Institution, but already such facilities for improving authentication, issuing medical certificates in electronic form are present in the software used by doctors primarily by primary health care. In fact, this discussion with the Minister of Health showed that we would be able to talk about a certain success when the time needed to issue an electronic medical certificate would be shorter than the time needed to issue a paper medical certificate. Honestly, I personally expressed my opinion that in any case it seems to me that this medical certificate issued in an electronic version simply... This show will take less time. This depends to a large extent on the various types of detailed solutions resulting from this software. I don't want to talk about these details, but we're doing everything we can to say that, as far as the short one is concerned, because, as the Minister said here, less than 30 seconds, the time to issue a medical certificate in a paper version is just to match it. As far as solutions are concerned in other countries, I would like to say that this element was taken into account when discussing the introduction of this solution at all, i.e. the possibility of issuing electronic medical certificates. I would like to remind you that this issue has already been resolved on 15 May 2015. At that time, the Sejm decided that after a two-year transition period this form - so-called. e-releases, i.e. exemptions issued in electronic form, will be the only form of medical certificates in circulation. I would like to say that this is actually the norm for modern social security systems. As regards the questions concerning the transition period and functionality, I feel that I have answered questions about ways to improve this process of issuing medical certificates. On the other hand, with regard to these two alternative methods of issuing medical certificates so far, I can say that, of course, the paper version so-called. Doctor's parole has its drawbacks. This fundamental disadvantage is that it limits the ability of the doctor to check the correctness of the medical certificate. According to the data we received from the Social Insurance Institution, in Poland more than 52% of sick leave is short-term. It can be said that this traditional form - related to the issue of a medical certificate in paper form, then the sending of this certificate to the Social Insurance Institution, the removal of this certificate by the Social Security Office - is in fact impossible to carry out checks on the correctness of the issuing of such certificates, medical exemptions less than 14 days, which is an argument in favour of this process of dissemination of a new electronic form of medical certificates as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u313	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee, Ms Ursula Rusecka. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too. And I'm closing the discussion. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft law on the restitution of national cultural goods. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Education Information System Act and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 12 h 17 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and some other laws (print No 1385). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Jan Dziedziczak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill that I have the honour to present is a project that modernises the foreign service. Foreign service requires changes, needs modernization, needs to adapt its requirements, its functioning to the present day. The last major change took place 27 years ago and was far insufficient. Of course, circumstances were different back then. As an MEP who has had the honour of working in Parliament for the past three years, I have been in the Communications Commission with Poles abroad for 8 years. The Commission has consulted candidates for general consuls in those countries where Polonia is present. Imagine that during these eight years, and it so happens that these were times when the foreign ministers were Mr Radosław Sikorski and Mr Grzegorz Schetyna, unfortunately for the prestigious positions on which he was responsible for cooperation with Polonia, the then minister presented candidates very often connected with the old system. Very often candidates were presented, who were even full-time members of the Polish United Workers' Party, very often candidates who were absolutely involved in the old system were presented. There have even been instances of presenting candidates who are secret security co-workers. Ladies and gentlemen, it was something particularly inappropriate, because these people had the task of caring for Polonia, caring for people who were very hurt, in many cases by communist authority, they had to flee Poland, ruining their previous lives. Unfortunately, according to then's decisions, people greeting them in the countries where they resided welcomed them on behalf of free Poland, and they were representatives of those from whom our countrymen had to flee. We want to change this, because the Polish state deserves people who want to serve the Republic of Poland fully, who do not have in their life an involvement in collaboration with the Soviet system, whether formally or informally. It is possible, 27 years ago, our predecessors faced this dilemma, today such dilemmas no longer exist. The person who graduated in 1989, 1990, today is 50 years old, i.e. people associated with the former system are already unnecessary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they are only a threat to our security, to the interests of the Republic of Poland. That's what we want, among other things. implement these amendments. We want to introduce a completely free person into the foreign service, untangled into the old system. Hence our actions, even if we open the door wide to candidates for the Diplomat Academy. I can tell you that this year is the largest number of students in the history of the Diplomat Academy, there are twice as many as last year. I will mention that in recent years there have been such vintages, where there has not been a single listener preparing to work in diplomacy. At the moment, there's twice as many of them as in previous years. I can also boast that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of all offices in our country, public administration, invited the most graduates of KSAP. These are also new people who get the chance to work for Poland, in Polish diplomacy, in foreign service. Of course, we want to end the Polish People's Republic not only in a personal dimension. We also want to change the structure of the ministry, because the current structure is not functional, it is pathological. A few examples to show you what the division of posts, the division of departments in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs looks like at the moment. After all, the Department of America, serving a large part of the world, has about 20 employees, the Department of Asia and the Pacific - also 20, the Eastern Department currently has 30 jobs. Meanwhile, the Office of Administration has 180 posts, several times more than those departments that I have just mentioned, which are engaged in substantive diplomatic work. This is not the end, the Foreign Service Inspector also has 180 jobs, and the IT office has 100 jobs. Now let's see how bureaucratic and self-employed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has become in recent years. This needs to be changed, this needs to be refreshed, this bureaucracy has to be completed, the bureaucratic Polish relic inside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to be completed and the percentage of diplomacy in Polish diplomacy will be high. We all know a comedy where sugar was counted, and we want to make the percentage of diplomacy in Polish diplomacy the same as in Western countries, as European standards require. At the moment this is not the case, at the moment, the percentage of people working on diplomatic tasks is worryingly small. All these departments I've been talking about are smaller than one department dealing with administration. Something's wrong, this system needs a change, we want to do it, and we're gonna do it. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to introduce such a mechanism of public service. Working in diplomacy is not a job since hours. 8 to 16, that is service - service to the country. We want this ethos among our diplomats, among foreign servants to introduce. We are aware that people who only count the hours they want to work from 8 to 16 simply do not meet the standards of foreign service, and we believe that in addition to the Labour Code there is responsibility for Poland, and the wording of the Service obliges something. And we want to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already told you about opening up to new people. Unfortunately, this bureaucratic work, which is now foreign service, is also haunted by pathologies in the style of clanism, guysiacity, getting various profitable jobs only to friends or family members. It is not by chance that many names, also known as the Polish Clans, are present at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs all the time. I think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should work the best ones who get there because of their qualifications, because of their patriotism, their sense of loyalty to the Republic of Poland, whoever governs it, not because they are members of some clan, family, family. This time at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is coming to an end. Ladies and gentlemen, we also want to change the system of investment in workers. Our employees, foreign servants, have for many years had no substantive training, no substantive development. Of course, they had training in handling other electronic gadgets, that kind of thing, but when it comes to training the skills needed for a diplomat, there was very little. We also want to invest in employees already working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As with such basic knowledge as writing reports, writing notes, claris or finally speeches were in previous years, we all know. It is not a coincidence that Minister Radosław Sikorski himself did not use the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to write speeches, he did not use his subordinates, but he did use the staff of the British Foreign Service. We all know who it is. And... [[And it's not Mr. Berczyński.]] ...this is actually an example of the state in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to lead to the fact that Polish diplomacy will be a modern service, will be a substantive service, will be a service open to people with high qualifications, and that is exactly what this law is about. And I ask the High House to accept our project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u315	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Małgorzata Gosievska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, thank you very much, Minister, for the fact that we can finally debate this law, that after 28 years we have seen the moment when we can talk about reform in foreign service. Because in the meantime, new services have been set up, state institutions have been reformed, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as it was, is. To this day, there are officers of the Polish Security Ministry working in this institution. Maybe you don't mind, but we do. And the interest of the Polish state as well. [[It's dull.]] The PRL's security officers, as I said, their secret associates... [[- Wolfgang.]] ...who started their career in the '80s by tracking emigration... [[Wolfgangs and others.]] ...to report on your colleagues, which I understand, you like, sir. And, unfortunately... [[And TW Wolfgang?]] Mr President, calmly, we will still carry out this reform in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] And you can protest. [[Then why talk about the debate?]] But they were co-workers of the Polish People's Republic of Security and graduates of the outstanding Russian university MGIMO will no longer have employment in this department. We've seen this moment. [[Applause]] No more PM at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Now it will be PRL bis.]] [[Now it's gonna be PRL PiS.]] In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs outside these groups we also have people who not only do not identify with foreign services, but also do nothing. The Minister spoke about this, and we have often experienced it by asking this department for various kinds of studies, documents. And although it was legally possible to part with such workers, even through regular periodic evaluations, in practice it was limited to transferring the ill-ranked employee to another cell, because why put yourself at risk. Many myths, misconceptions, and even contradictions have already been created around this bill. Besides, we have heard various voices from the High House here. We hear it's gonna be chaos in diplomatic service, dismantle or even paralysis. But the proposals put forward by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło are not pure, as you say, as the so-called. Total opposition, which is a test... [[Total purge.]] ...systemic and long-awaited ordering of selected issues, including among others. HR issues. [[What's the matter with you?]] As for the purifiers... [[What kind of purge?]] ...sir, I would like to remind you that a few years ago, in 2012, about 300 employees were fired from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You don't remember that, of course. [[You're talking to me, I'm sorry?]] And I don't remember you protesting back then. And it was a purge under the motto of rationalisation of employment. In practice, this was based on the fact that the managers of the organizational units were ordered to select 10% their employees scheduled to be fired. [[Just natural selection.]] Natural selection, you say? That's a very interesting term. [[It's not for you. I'm talking to a colleague here on a completely different matter.]] Uh-huh. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But I'm glad you added a sentence of your own in that speech.]] [[And this is the kind of debate we're talking about? Excuse me...]] The guiding idea of this bill is - and here I will read - to restore the words and institutions of their basic meaning and meaning. [[Voice from the hall: Let the law finally mean.]] And it will. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to participate actively in the creation of Polish foreign policy, once again: actively participate in the creation of Polish foreign policy. But when we look closer at the organizational structure of the ministry itself, the proportion between the organizational cells in charge of ministry services and the cells in charge of political issues, we will understand that this resort, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even with the political will of his boss, he was unable to implement his basic assumptions. This is something that the Minister spoke very much about, when he mentioned employment in the various departments, but also...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u317	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u318	...at the Administration Office, etc. Finally, I would like to stress that Law and Justice, of course, supports this government project, accepts with satisfaction... [[Really?]] ...but not without regret that it's so late, [[Applause]] And he's asking...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u319	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u320	...Mr. Marshal to refer the bill to the joint committees...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u321	Thank you. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski has the floor...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u322	... Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Commission. There you go. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Gretel.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u323	... The Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am accompanied by a feeling of surrealism, because the Polish People's Republic ended 27 years ago and those horrible people you say are so horrible, they brought us into NATO, they brought us into the European Union. Minister, words, words, words. You say modernization, ethos. In fact, Mrs Gosievska sums up well what your plans are: chaos, dismantling, paralysis. First of all, you insult those people who served Poland very well, the vast majority of them served Poland well, patriots and specialists. But worst of all, you are trying to introduce uncertainty and chaos at a time when the fate of the European Union is decided, at a time when the United Kingdom is leaving the Union, at a time when global order is being redacted, at a time when the most important security issues are being decided - you want to introduce the greatest chaos and uncertainty in Polish diplomacy at this point. You're gonna pay for this and you're gonna have... [[300 employees.]] ...the problem with what's going on in this diplomacy. Let's agree that this is just an excuse to introduce your faithful associates. And unfortunately, when we look at you and your governments, it's an experience. We are taught that they will be completely incompetent to do so, and we will therefore, of course, oppose such plans. I know the European floor best, it was created from the ground up 27 years ago - the best specialists who ensure that we are served at the highest level in the European Union. But you don't trust the people who tell you the truth, and that's why you want to remove the specialists and put your faithful acolytes in their place. You don't like anyone who tells you honestly: "This cannot be done, it is against European law, or it costs too much." And you'll pay the price. The saddest thing is that you don't even realize it -- you're so shortsighted -- that you're going to pay the price for it, because your foreign policy is a gaf policy, that's a mix-up policy, and that's unfortunately a total policy of incompetence. [[And who's doing favors for the Americans?]] And at this point you want to add to this - to this marginalization, to this total lack of seriousness, which hurts me the most that no one takes you seriously in the European Union or in the world - the fact that you want to lose your eyes and ears, you want to deprive yourself of the instruments to conduct an effective foreign policy. And that must be regretted, because unfortunately, we will all pay for it, for the chaos and chaos you will leave behind. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u325	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u326	I don't blame you because you have to remember. about the fact that this bill has been in the Seym for some time now, and it is your environment, as Mrs Gosievska rightly pointed out, for some time has been holding back this project, I understand, someone there has left behind the senses, because even totalitarian regimes after the revolutions left diplomats. They left diplomats behind to explain to them the world to explain their politics, because if someone is practicing crazy politics, it's good for the neighbors to be able to rationally explain that policy. You're running a madman's policy, and you still want a madman to translate that policy. That's the problem. This is the problem of the Polish state, the challenge we are facing today. This isn't about decommunization. Decommunization in Poland... I mean, you guys are, I don't want to compare, but like guerrillas 100 years after the war. Decommunization in Poland has already taken place. I am from an anti-communist family, I am from an anti-communist family and I know that anti-communism in Poland today is archaic because it is not the answer to some real problem. There is no problem of post-communism in Poland... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...because post-communism is just some kind of prehistory. And there's no problem. You're actually just using the question of vetting, decommunization to get rid of people that you don't think represent your views. And the problem is, those officials who are there... [[Ubecja isn't...]] ...those officials who are there... You don't even know what they think because they're professional people who don't show their views but serve the Republic. And, Minister, presenting from this speaker, and you are a relatively young man, this project, you must be aware of the great damage you are causing to the Polish state - the damage that is destroying the Polish diplomacy built over twenty years of independent Poland. It's a terrible pity you're doing. There's still time to seriously think about it. That's what we're asking you to think carefully. Know what the Polish state has at its disposal, review these assets seriously and take it seriously. It is not a serious treatment of Polish diplomacy that for six months all diplomats around the world, from New Zealand to northern Denmark and from Vancouver to Tokyo, say: gentlemen, for six months we don't really know who you represent, because it will turn out in six months whether we need you or not. You're gonna make these people unbelievable to our partners. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the problem. Mr. Marshal! For all these reasons, I would like to ask, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, to reject this project at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u327	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult to remain calm here, hearing all these previous speeches - unfortunately also this speech - which, all of them, were Polish-PRLs - were simply Polish-PRLs. PRL is in you and indeed You have to fight him. [[Applause]] [[He says it's in us too, so don't clap.]] Yeah, he's in you too, buddy. I would remind you that not long ago in the committee, the Member attacked the candidate for ambassador only because he was employed in 1988. [[Mr President, this is not the debate. Tell me...]] Thank you. I don't argue with non-cultural people. Getting to the point. There are no young people here because I can't... [[You're defending him because he was a colleague of yours.]] Is there any way to silence this gentleman or give him some kind of punishment? You can't talk. [[I'm not a gentleman to you. You're the one who started to say...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u329	There you go - do not interfere with the speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u330	I really think that here there will be conditions for discussion or not - and certainly not for such discussion. Do you have to discuss with everyone? Maybe for a while... The drugs are so different chemicals, soothing. I'd like that very much. [[Applause]] [[Not this gentleman, just a messenger, you piss-off pissant.]] They're affecting you, too. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you to correct me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u331	Good. Please do not interfere with the Member's speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u332	I would very much ask that time be restored. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u333	Good. Continue, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u334	...he's been provoking all along. So to speak, this PRL is coming out of a young man too much. It's horrible. But, uh, back to the subject. Simple things need to be spoken straight - simple things need to be spoken straight. Bad things are just bad things. And here, unfortunately, Minister, I'm surprised. You said something about Polonia, you said something about the Polish People's Republic, and you're putting in something that's just throwing out $3,000. People from work. Throwing out $3,000. People at work are evil - they are evil. And under what pretence do you do that? You're doing it under the pretence that there's like 80 TW in there. I want to remind you that the last time you were in power, a few years ago, there were 370 of them, and that didn't bother you then. If there are 70 bad people - I don't know if they're exactly bad people, probably most of them are so-called people. communication, that is, by all means, people who were very much needed there - if there are people who are inappropriate, they are simply released, the most normal way in the world is to release them. [[Applause]] If a surgeon kills a patient just because he has a tumor in his leg, it's not a surgeon. So there's a total misunderstanding here. We're putting in a bad bill for a bad, bad purpose. And there is nothing different here from the POs, except that the POs did it gently because they slowed down - as the Member said - 300 people, and you release 3,000. People. You're 10 times worse, 10 times exactly in mathematical terms. If you want to introduce this law, I'll remind you that you're breaking some laws. You're breaking a constitution, at least two laws -- certainly an article. 24, I'm sure it's Art. 60 - you break international agreements related to the International Labour Organisation, you break the Trade Union Act, because by thus releasing people, by law, you break all possible rules regarding the protection that workers have, the protection associated with retirement age, you just fire trade union workers. In normal mode, you can't do that. This is another example of the destruction of the union organization of Solidarity in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - something that has always been. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has always been oppressed and, unfortunately, the PiS was at the head of the destruction of the Solidarity Service at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And now we have another example, because I suspect, unfortunately, among the 3,000, since you will probably fire this handful of people who still have the courage - because in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs you must have the courage to belong to the Solidarity, whatever the power is. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, you're breaking the law by using it as angels. You are not angels - you are angels of death. This law does not deserve any support, this law is no reform. I mean, it's $3,000 being fired. people just so there's less people in the administration, it's just funny. You can hear it. Say the real thing: we fire people because we want to put our own people in there. I don't know where you're gonna get them, because you don't have so many of your own, those who can run the Foreign Office. You don't even have any idea how this MFA is supposed to work, you don't have a foreign policy concept. So, unfortunately, you're a part of the continuation, the continuation of what your predecessors did, you're not presenting anything new. And that's the most tragic thing about all of this. You took advantage of the fact that the nation wanted something new. And what did the nation get? Same thing as it was, only ten times as hard. Well, you can't do that. [[Applause]] There's no reform, there's no news. The PRL is in you. If you don't get that PRL out of your system... Contrary to what this young man said, the Polish People's Republic is in you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you don't throw him out, we're not gonna reform this country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And one more thing. Of course, on behalf of the club, I submit a motion to reject the project at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I please?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u335	Yes. Mr Nitras in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u336	I wanted to say... I'd like to apologize for the comments of this old gentleman... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...who spoke before me and who is a member of the Sejm and therefore deserves respect. And that's what I expect. On the other hand, I would like to say to you that you seem to have misunderstood my statement. I know you're messed up, and Mr. Platforms and the PiS don't know anything about you, and I don't think you're the only one in this room, but talking about some chemicals is giving you the worst testimony. If you are trying to earn the title of diplomat representing Poland, I would very much ask you to be gracious, however, to move at the level [[♪ The bell ♪]] characteristic for Polish diplomats and do not go below. [[And vice versa.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u337	Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What should this debate be about today? About diplomacy. Diplomacy is a tool that you use to implement your foreign policy, and the diplomatic service is to use this tool efficiently to effectively implement foreign policy. For it to be effective, it must be professional, well-managed and consistent, it must be continuous. This is the foundation of foreign service: continuity. Diplomacy may pursue foreign policy, provided that the State conducts such foreign policy at all. I have repeatedly said that the Law and Justice in my opinion does not lead any foreign policy, there is no foreign policy concept, and what we see and are proclaimed as foreign policy is such a reflection, a function of extremely inept internal policy. We see the consequences of this, we see how we are now seen in the international arena. Foreign policy of the Republic of Poland for the last 25 years has been well defined and consistently implemented. In the last 25 years we have entered NATO, we have entered the European Union. I never thought I'd say this, but even the extremely inept government of Kaczyński, Lepper and Giertych, because there was a government that Minister Anna Fotyga was the minister of, he was better at... [[A voice from the hall: I am a spokesman.]] And you're the spokesperson in this Lepper government. [[Voice from Kaczyński's room.]] Kaczynski and Lepper. Yes, it is right that you resemble both those characters who played an important role in this government. ...has led a better foreign policy than this government, because Minister Waszczykowski and PiS, the politician of this government, especially Minister Waszczykowski, is such a book depiction of the old saying: the fish is broken from the head, because within 1.5 years of the operation of Minister Waszczykowski as head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you were able to lead quite well organized diplomacy, which introduced Poland into the European Union and NATO, to such a state that it is unable to implement any project. Neither a large project and here one can recall the disgrace of Polish diplomacy, Polish foreign policy at the last meeting of the European Council, when it turned out that Polish diplomacy lost its ability to read with understanding of the treaty provisions. I'm not just talking about the elementary stupidity you've shown. But Polish diplomacy is not able to implement even small projects under the leadership of Minister Waszczykowski, namely to authorize the interview of Minister Waszczykowski, so that he does not compromise himself, because in fact it cannot be called otherwise. [[Applause]] In this whole situation you've been creating for a year and a half, you want to make changes in diplomacy. I'm scared. The justification for these changes is dezubecisation and decommunization. That's the purpose of your change. The first words that come to mind when you talk about these changes are extreme hypocrisy, because it was you who called the ambassador to Berlin TW Wolfgang. So if you're talking about dezubecisation, then... Let's not joke about it. And the second thing that comes to mind is that this is a mockery of justice, because if you want to decommunize after 27 years, when you once ruled - after all you were a spokesman for the government - and you did not do it and you want to throw away diplomats who introduced Poland into the European Union and NATO, this is a mockery of justice. Minister, dear Members of Law and Justice one, don't joke. To get rid of these 200 people, it's enough to make the CEO's decision, which is not what this is all about. What's going on? Let's cut to the chase. Art. 7: The employment relationship of all diplomatic staff expires after 6 months. So it's a purge, it's just a purge, it's a Bolshevik purge, and that's all it's all about: verification of everyone, about causing fear in all the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, about how you want to induce the expected attitude of loyalty in them, so that they're afraid they're going to be fired. Throw out all those who don't fit and replace them with their own. What do you want to replace? Misiewicz? Do you have so many Misiewiczs to replace the entire foreign service with these people? [[Voice from the room: They do.]] In fact, in this whole discussion, other elements of this law, perhaps even the right ones: contracts, the introduction of the position of Ambassador ad personam, some additional forms of social protection of employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or even good solutions, which cause that a representative of foreign service, at the moment of threat, takes over command, in fact make no sense, are unfounded, because this act is absolutely and exclusively a purge, and it is such a purgatory in the Bolshevik style, carried out by hypocrites. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill does not protect us from the Przylebskis, from the Grey, from the Misiewicz. [[He's opening the gate.]] He's opening the gate for them. You haven't been able to protect us for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u339	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u340	This bill doesn't serve anything, so on behalf of the Modern Club, I'm filing a motion to reject this project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u341	Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Indeed, we have an important debate today on an important bill. In a situation where we have such huge turmoil on the international stage, when we have Brexit, when we have a very vague situation in Turkey, when the relations between Russia - the United States are one of the worst for many years, when Polish diplomacy should have a clear, prepared and well presented position on some issues, our diplomats have been living for six months already with the prospect of putting out working relations. In most cases, they work as shown by the provisions of this law, so they wait whether they will be re-elected after the termination of this employment relationship. In fact, I feel sorry for you, Minister, because I value you very much. I was wondering why this debate, why the first reading of this law is postponed so much. Today we know that because Minister Waszczykowski was not present in this debate, so that perhaps, in addition, he would not humiliate Polish diplomacy. Minister Waszczykowski is in the United States, so you have the honour of defending this legal bubble, which is really just a personnel bill. Mrs Gosievska has made it clear that this debate, this discussion, honourable Members, is unnecessary because PiS will do it anyway. If so, it would be worth thinking about it - Mr Szłapka also spoke about it - because in the time of AWS Polish diplomats were sent to this famous, unwanted Moscow school for training. As I recall, the latter completed it either in 2002 or in 2004. If there's a problem with those 200 graduates from that college, where's your administration? Where is your way of judging, promoting or transferring or releasing? There is no real need for this kind of law. In a situation, once again, when not so long ago was created the theory of the Great Intermarine, now - the Tri-marine, and in a moment it will turn out that the caravan, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I have a question: Why are you loading yourself into these kinds of solutions? If you have emphasized very strongly that in diplomacy you need people free, independent, untangled in the previous system, then get rid of Piotrowicz, Jasiński, Przyłębski... [[Crystal.]] ... Crystal. After all, no law is needed for this. You can really do that with one human movement. But I have the impression that this is about something deeper, that really in a situation of great international unrest it is about weakening Polish diplomacy, so that nobody in the world matters with this diplomacy. I remember my travels, at the end of the previous century, as a messenger, abroad. There was a clear commandment there. We MEPs welcomed the ambassadors and said: you cannot discuss economic affairs with foreign partners. Absolutely not doing any lobbying for the economy. However, at this age, I am already observing this, I have many experiences, Polish diplomacy has also learned economic diplomacy. We wouldn't be such an export power if it weren't for the involvement of Polish diplomacy. You want to take her out. Minister, why do we not have an ambassador so far in Paris, in such an important capital and Europe and the world? We've got chargé d-affaires. Why has an agricultural adviser's vacancy been in India for a year, and this is an area that is important for us in terms of export opportunities? A sales advisor is not appointed. Why in China, when we had the approval of the former Foreign Minister and still this agreement has not been revoked, are there two jobs of agricultural counsel? The one who's already experienced, you want to cancel, and you haven't called another one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You do not care about Poland, the Polish economy, the good name of Poland. You care about domestic political competitions in the country. Therefore, like other clubs, the club of the Polish People's Party is against this law at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u343	Thank you. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that the boycott from the PiS of this debate and the Minister, I understand, reaches almost 100%. So I must congratulate you. I am very pleased that you are Mrs Gosievska, because it is worth reminding you that this is the lady who was kind a few days ago to call the opponents of PiS or people who do not like PiS, cattle... [[Not opponents.]] ...and degenerates. So I wanted to congratulate you on your language and political culture. And congratulations to your colleague too... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Bartoszewski.]] [[Professor Bartoszewski's sacred memory.]] He never said that. Don't lie to me, Minister. You're asleep. Professor Bartoszewski didn't say that. Don't lie to me. [[And what college was he at?]] [[Like Kaczyński.]] He was a professor at the Catholic University of Lublin, author of many books, and so far you are only the author of the skin of a raccoon, but congratulations to you. [[And I really like them. I'm on my own, and you're on your own - that's the difference.]] But as for... I would like to add that your friend from the government - I do not recall any reaction so far - was kind to say that President Tusk should be shackled and hanged. [[For diplomacy.]] So I have to say that this person, apparently, is a student of education, is well educated. You have well-educated people, and you want these people to fill your seats at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Ministry of Environment.]] What impudence, Minister. How can you talk about decommunization? Start with each other. Some names have already been mentioned: Jasiński, Czabański, Kryże, Piotrowicz. Throw them out before you start talking about decommunization. And the claim of... [[They didn't inform on...]] Keep your voice down. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] ... PRLs that cast diplomacy and which are then, I understand, to be cut out, that is collective responsibility. This is March 1968. Congratulations, sir. Your colleague in this respect is Mieczysław Moczar. [[Applause]] Exactly the language. It's been determined who comes from the family. After all, these are fundamentally different dictatorial systems from democratic systems. Adult children are not responsible for the actions of parents and vice versa. How can you even say that? Convicted of collaboration? You're talking about getting involved in a collaboration? You have no right to do this. You here were kind to say: modern, substantive diplomacy. It's been said before. I can only repeat: What bothers you to carry out this modern and substantive diplomacy? If you want to throw out incompetent people, so that I do not say diplomats, quoting Prof. Bartoszewski, then start throwing away from Mr.Waszczykowski, because what differs him from Metternich is actually that Metternich was thin and Mr.Waszczykowski is thin otherwise. [[It's weak.]] So that, in general, if you're talking about pests in diplomacy, remove the biggest pest, because Mrs. Fotyga was an eagle, as in this song of the Cabaret of the Elder Lords: an eagle, a lioness and a hawk. However, when it comes to the law itself, there are e.g. Flowers like that... Of course, there's no time to discuss all this. It's not even right for rejection, but it's right for the trash can. Of course, I propose that I do not forget, on behalf of the circle of European democrats... [[On behalf of what?]] ...a circle of European democrats about rejecting this bubble, as someone said before me, legal. You guys are exchanging rules for the performance of foreign service tasks by officers. And here's the police, the security agency, the intelligence agency. I understand that all special institutions must be treated separately in this law. And you're also joining the fire department. Is the guard still bothering you? You're looking for a threat among the firefighters? [[Fires must be extinguished.]] In general, the entire bill, as it was said, has a staffing character. It's all about firing all the current employees. There is nothing else going on, because neither you nor Mrs Gosievska have made a single argument that under the current law you cannot do what you claim to be noble. So I can give you a hint here, I'll try to help you. You've already mastered the army, the police, the courts, the prosecutor's office, education, theaters, horses, forests, hunting grounds, state Treasury companies... [[Squirrels.]] ...the inoculations, [[Joy in the Chamber]] You've mastered everything and everyone, but there's still something left to do, Minister. You've left crèches that are so far out of your control, kindergartens, nursing homes, nursing homes, aquariums, zoos and fungus. [[Voice from the room: Don't be afraid.]] I mean, there might be a hit coming out of there, Minister. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] This is a mortal danger. The great areas of the state are still out of your control. I admire your recklessness and disvolution, but I've replaced the areas... How much fungus can they do wrong? How many hiding places can they prepare for Kaczyński's leg, e.g. On a forest walk with a cat? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, this corrupt, disgusting, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The anti-democratic law is suitable for rejection. This is the conclusion I make on behalf of the European Democrat circle. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u345	Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Maria Siakovska to speak on behalf of the Circle of the Republicans. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of the Republicans, it is my honor to present our position on the government's draft amendment to the Foreign Service Act. The Act amends or cooperates with provisions aimed at preventing further employment in the foreign service of persons who worked in or with State security authorities in the years 1944 and 1990. We stress clearly that as Republicans, we are strong supporters of the diplomacy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In general, the fact that such persons continue to perform their functions in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and despite the passing of more than a quarter of a century since the liberation of Poland from the eyes of communism, must be assessed clearly critically. How is it possible that until today, in the foreign service of the independent Republic of Poland there is still room for secret co-workers of the Polish People's Republic or graduates of Soviet universities? The loyalty of employees of the Polish diplomatic service to the independent Polish state must be indisputable. Those who served the communist state, which was dependent on Soviet Russia, should in no way be covered by the guarantee of trust. We are therefore pleased with this comprehensive review of the Polish diplomatic staff, which is announced as a result of the introduced rules. We consider it necessary and appropriate to carry out such a review. In foreign service institutions, which have not been reformed for many years, many people are still employed from the so-called. The post-war labor and peasant enrollment. It is these people who have been active in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for decades on the principle of clanality. These people have not had and have not so far had any qualifications to work in the field of foreign service. This situation applies primarily to foreign institutions and technical units, which have grown to a huge extent. We hope, therefore, that the statutory review of staff will not be carried out at the expense of reliable staff and will at the same time reduce undoubtedly existing pathologies and give an opportunity to those who have the right powers to perform foreign service. We also hope that one of the consequences, as announced, of introducing the changes proposed by the designers will be to increase the recruitment for foreign service through the diplomatic/consulary application. Recruitment to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the best way to complement staff in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it allows young and competent people to be admitted to work, not party cameras. However, we do not like the statutory requirement contained in the draft regulations, which allows managers in the foreign service to be able to document the knowledge of only one foreign language. After all, we must remember that executive positions in foreign service are also higher positions in civil service. These posts should only be reserved for professional diplomats. We therefore call for the repeal of this provision or for it to be subject to a documented knowledge of at least two foreign languages, including necessarily English. We are afraid that without these provisions, this provision may provide a gateway to the fact that executive positions in the foreign service will be taken by people who will not have the necessary qualifications for this. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Circle of Poselski Republicans is in favour of further proceding this law in the relevant committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u347	Thank you, Member. 20 people entered on the list of Members wishing to ask a question. Anyone else want to sign up? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is still a Member.]] Then sign up and you will conclude the list of people who have joined the question at this point in the meeting. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club begins. One and a half minutes. You're welcome. [[He's not here.]] There isn't. This is Mr Marek Krzakła, also the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u348	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the justification of the bill, because as the main problem facing foreign service, it is mentioned - and here I quote - the lack of strong ties between diplomats and the Polish state. That is why I wanted to ask you about the tools under which these bonds are assessed and the criteria under which diplomats will be rehired after a six-month transition period. [[There's a table.]] [[Don't interrupt.]] Here I ignore those who worked with security authorities until July 1990, with 3,600 people it is less than 100 people. You're focusing on them, and it's about the other three and a half thousand. employees. Will this criterion, Minister, be an attitude towards the Smolensk tragedy? Because it is worth recalling the lectures of Smolensk film organized by ambassadors by force, e.g. Berlin. Or will your definition of patriotism be used as a criterion? She pushes us towards nationalism and populism based on demagogy as well as Euroscepticism. And isn't it a paradox, Minister, that in the justification of the project, Berlin is cited as an example of failure? Tell us what makes us more uncomfortable: the lack of a new seat or the ambassador of TW Wolfgang, who concealed the fact of cooperation with the services? And finally, what are the guarantees that you will not replace the next Misiewicz, who discredit us and ridicule us in the international arena, because it was supposed to be good, to make things better, and it's only worse? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u349	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski put the question in writing and will therefore remain to answer for the Minister. Another question - Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u350	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How do you want to create strong ties with the Polish state when you remove the diplomatic service as a diplomatic corps, turning diplomats de facto into contract workers, uncertain of your future in the diplomatic service for Poland, without any guarantee as to the development of your career in diplomacy? How, Minister? And the question about justification - you write in the explanatory memorandum about the more than 20-year embarrassing history of building the headquarters of the Polish embassy in Berlin as a symbol of the inability of Polish foreign service, but it was you who cancelled the tender for the construction and cancelled the already approved construction project of this embassy, which gave the opportunity to complete the construction by 2019, and this is your answer to my interpellation from March this year. I would like to answer: What happened? You say the offers were too expensive and the building was too big for our needs, but you do not say that this applies to one of the most representative streets in Europe, and therefore, the most expensive. Now you're thinking about partnership, public-private concessions, but it's your ambassador in Berlin, once TW Wolfgang, promised to finish this construction. Turns out he lied here, too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u351	Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u352	Minister! Many Members stressed the importance of continuity in diplomacy. Because continuity is not about not agreeing, because you can verify politics, you can sometimes change direction or correct - it may even be a better word. But continuity is important because continuity is experience, it's skills, continuity is a workshop, it's a science, it's allowed, it's not allowed. You're making a total comeback, destroying everything that's been built, and at the same time what hurts the most, you're using patriotic rhetoric in all of this, and when we look at the practice of your actions - apart from firing people, destroying everything that's been built for 20 years - we see a practice like this. The offensive of the Minister, supported by Mr Kukiz, regarding the release - as you call it - of our citizen in South Africa, who is a murderer, is a political murderer, he is a racist murderer, and you will make him a hero. You on the committee said he's our citizen, you have to defend him. What's our citizen? A man who, as a South African citizen, murdered a politician, murdered a man because he had a different color? This is your new diplomacy? Is this the model you want to spread? You're making him a national hero. He's already in stadiums, fans, football fans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's a hero. This is the diplomacy, this is the face of Poland you want to show the world? I ask you to answer this question, because it has something to do with this debate directly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u353	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Purge in diplomacy and proof of the hypocrisy of PiS - that should be the name of this Act. You want to throw out dozens of experienced, competent diplomats to take their place, including the Pisiewicz. Let me remind you that the most famous diplomat in the assignment of the PiS is Ambassador Przyłębski, former security officer and illustrator, not to mention other PiS activists. Under the law, current contracts for the work of our diplomats will expire within six months. Those to whom PiS will offer this will be hired, which is as we all know: Pisiewicz. Short questions. Just answer these questions, because in general you don't answer the questions and I don't know if I should expect an answer. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: No, please read clearly.]] Here's your hearing aid. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Will the new agreement be proposed to Mr. Przylebski? That's one question. Second question: Will Mr. Janniger of the Ministry of National Defence pass as a diplomat under the wing of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u355	Thank you. Another question, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I see the discussion has gone in a slightly different direction, but nothing. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 (4) of the proposed law introduces a legally negative condition of employment in the foreign service concerning persons who, until 31 July 1990, worked or served or were co-workers of the security authorities within the meaning of the so-called law. a law of illustration. Isn't that too narrow a catalog? Shouldn't we give up, among other things. from those who were educated at the former Soviet Union universities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u357	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u358	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Foreign Service Act assumes that a person who worked, served or co-operated with the security authorities of the People's Republic of Poland may not be employed in the diplomatic service from 22 July 1944 until 31 July 1990. This also applies to members of the family of diplomats, e.g. The ambassador's wife or the consul's wife. Since the beginning of his term of office, the PiS government has been fighting against those who have cooperated with the former communist authority. They began by dezubecating the streets, then reducing pensions or destroying the good name of President Lech Wałęsa. One could say that this is one of the priorities of the current power. Unfortunately, the PiS government forgot to clear such officers from its ranks. We have recently been able to learn about a secret co-worker, Wolfgang. Will the provisions of the illustration of the new law lead to the release of Ambassador Przyłębski - let me remind you once again: TW Wolfgang - who, according to documents contained in the IPN, cooperated with security services in 1979 and 1980, but will the support of PiS and the marriage with the head of the Constitutional Tribunal politicized by PiS save him? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u359	Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The justification of the bill is a devastating assessment of Polish foreign services, shocking and hurting assessment. Rhetorical question: Has the PiS made a fair, objective assessment, or are these only generals on the basis that everything that has been so far is wrong and requires immediate changes? Why is it proposed to fire all foreign servants who started work before 31 July 1990? Whether it's another purge, so-called. Full HR exchange, this time in foreign service? This will apply to many experienced workers in foreign institutions. Already today, we lack qualified workers in Polish embassies as a result of many government actions. Why are we destroying foreign services in such a reckless way, exposing our country to critical assessments in the international arena? Is that what the modernization of Polish foreign services is supposed to be about, as the Minister spoke extensively about in the justification of this bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u361	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u362	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! This law proposes the release of 3660 MFA staff and the proposal of new posts only for some of them. There would be those who would accept such proposals. The Minister was polite to state the criteria according to which people will be fired, i.e.: PZPR activist, secret collaborator, school graduating from Moscow, worked at all, I do not know, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Yes. So I understand that those are the criteria. Do you realize that if these criteria were applied, it would not be in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Andrzej Olechowski, Bronisław Geremek, that Alexander Kwaśniewski, Włodzimierz Cimoszewicz, Leszek Miller could never be employed there. But did you... [[Yeah, that's right.]] That's right, yeah. No, but these people... [[Thank you for those names. Thank you.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ...have a great contribution to Poland's entry into NATO, to Poland's entry into the European Union, to the shift of Polish policy from the East to the West. Don't you value these achievements? Do you think that our entry into the European Union and our entry into NATO are simply worthless and such people who have worked on it should simply be removed from power because, so to speak, they have served Poland badly? That's one of my questions. The second question is, namely, family ties: Do you realize that you refer to the worst times in the Uzzarów, when you were just studying, who has a family, what's in the family papers, where who was employed? Each person is assessed individually on the basis of his own merits, achievements, work, and not on the basis of his family. You're reaching to the worst patterns here, talking about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, I wanted to ask: Are you proposing any higher criteria for hiring new people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u364	Dear Marshal! Minister! It is extremely worrying that, by law, with all those who do not receive from you a proposal for new working conditions and wages, this employment relationship will be resolved. I would like to ask: Are you not afraid that this violates the article. 24 Constitutions and Art. 60 constitutions? I would also like to ask you if you have had the opportunity to read the opinion of "Solidarity." In my opinion, the opinion of "Solidarity' massacres this project in terms of workers' rights. But perhaps the most important thing, Minister: Do you know what trust in the Polish state is? How can you imagine that officials who build a career, no matter when they start, will suddenly be expelled by law? The Polish State is a natural heir and has commitments to past times as well. In that case, will you, following this lead, also deprive pensions, as you have deprived military men, others? Is that what you think is right? Do you not think that, following this lead, you will destroy the last element of trust in the Polish state, that is, what Mr Szłapka said, continuity? This is one of the most important things that we, as Members, are building this country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can give people. You can't do that. Withdraw this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u365	Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u366	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Having considered this law, I came to the conclusion that you are indeed creating such a wind of change within the diplomacy, but this wind of change is actually a toxic vacuum - an exhaust that will strangle Polish diplomacy, leading to the fact that a number of well-deserved and experienced people will no longer serve the Polish state. And let me just remind you, my dear Minister, that the Polish state is not a private state of the PiS, it is a community of all citizens. The main assumption of the interest of this community is the continuation of its institutions, including the continuation of work at offices of people who represent the Polish state abroad. Hence my question about art. 7 and Article 7 8 of this Act. They make you completely arbitrary and discretionary in terms of proposing or not proposing new working conditions to diplomats. And what is troubling about this provision is that you are violating the fundamental rights associated primarily with the protection of workers, the rights that these diplomacy workers have acquired. You also violate the principle of legal stability as such. That's why I'm asking you nicely. [[♪ The bell ♪]] explain the motives and substantive reasons for the construction of the article. 7 and Article 7 8 of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u367	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u368	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For 27 years free Poland managed to maintain consensus, continuity, agreement between the parties that govern and which are in opposition, concerning foreign policy. You are the first government, the first party that doesn't want to talk and doesn't want to talk, and all of this, of course, has a very negative effect on you. Law and Justice - a beautiful name, just a question of how the first part of this name, or law, refers to a project which assumes that the employment relationship with foreign service members before the date of entry into force of the Act expires 6 months after its entry into force if the employment relationship is not established before that time. How right it is to an article. 24 Constitutions - I will remind you, because this is a document of a foreign state - that the work is under the protection of the Republic of Poland? How is it that you are not able to assess the effects of this law, how many people will be released for reasons other than the service in the State Security Authorities during the period 1944-1990 or cooperation with them? And at the same time you employ, promote comrade Wolfgang. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u369	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! And in the speech of the Minister, and in the speech of the representative of the PiS club, Mrs Gosievska, the justification was that it was as if the decommunization of the foreign service was the most important. The justification for this project refers to 100 people, who, I say, should be exempted from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or diplomatic service in the opinion of the State. Therefore, the question: Why should this be done in the form of a law and the Director-General could not do so, normally by an official decision to terminate contracts or by agreement of the parties, or according to the Labour Code after a reasonable period of time? That's question one. Question two. If that is the main justification, because this is what you said and said, and the Minister said, then what is the justification of the article. 7, i.e. the termination of the employment relationship with all employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after six months if you do not positively verify them? What will be the result? Because in your explanatory statement, you are simply saying that this effect cannot be estimated. As if the most important thing is what is the justification, what you want to achieve, if not the purge, this move. And thirdly, who will carry out the verification and who will talk, so to speak, with all these workers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who will be verified by you? And would you mind denouncing the media reports on the fact that the verification committee will have a very weak moral cause? Because we've heard of names of people who aren't qualified for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u371	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u372	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, you have been kind enough to say that this amendment is being introduced because of nepotism, cognition and ill-understood group solidarity. I would very much ask that the Minister be polite to point out these provisions - specific provisions - which counter this nepotism, co-moterism and ill-understood group solidarity, because I will admit openly that I have been quite thoroughly acquainted with the draft law and unfortunately I have not found rules that would counter this exactly. Unfortunately, it seems that it will be as it has been so far, i.e. it will remain only a discretionary issue, with one exception: now those responsible for nominations will be those who are free from nepotism, co-moterism and ill-understood group solidarity, unfortunately, people who are serving the ruling party. Of course, this raises concern - I think it is reasonable - that Polish diplomacy will work even worse than it does. Although I am aware that this is difficult to imagine, in the context of previous practices, even if known from the Misiewicz scandal, this justification sounds extremely ironic, Minister. And the second thing I'd like to ask you is security. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, if you would be kind to assess whether this turmoil with the entire staff, with our entire diplomatic service, has a positive impact on the security of information, or is it the security of information in such a broad view? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u373	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The justification of the project indicates that Polish diplomats are insufficiently connected to the Polish state. A question for the Minister. Please indicate how a sufficiently strong relationship with the Polish country of new candidates will be verified. In addition, the draft law sets out in the article. 7 to the expiry of employment relationships after 6 months, unless, of course, new working conditions and wages are proposed. I would like to know what will be the criteria for extending, maintaining the employment relationship on a new basis, and whether the Ministry has made estimates of the number of people who will lose their jobs after the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u375	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, during the session of the Parliament's Committee on Culture, the votes of Law and Justice, as well as the votes of Kukiz.15, the resolution was rejected, which reminded us that on 2 April we celebrated the 20th anniversary of writing and announcing the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. You don't respect the Constitution. This law, of course, also undermines this constitution, contrary to the constitution, you are writing this law. But I like this bill very much, she's excellent, she's outstanding because she's totally embarrassing you. And the more laws like that, the more confident we are that when you go far away, everyone will forget about you. Our historical reality is very difficult. We deal with various pasts, demons of the past. But what scares me the most about what you're doing here is that you're really applying some kind of Bolshevik-totalitarian-authoritarian, or collective responsibility. Why are you building our consciousness in this way? Are you sadists? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] who think that what used to be, what wasn't yours, isn't ours? Well, our common past - whether you like it or not - is our treasure in a way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this is our spiritual space. [[Applause]] Don't forget the story. The ahistoric thinking will take revenge on you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, that was so deep.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u377	Thank you. And another question, Mr Konrad Głębocki, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u378	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, will Polish diplomacy finally work with great commitment to the implementation of the Polish national interest? [[♪ Move, joy in the hall ♪]] I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for this bill, because this is a law that is a chance for a breakthrough. Isn't it that over the years the Polish People's Republic has been very carefully chosen by all those who were then employed in foreign service? Very carefully, very carefully. And today these people are very many, they're still working, and they used to be totally dependent on the communist authorities. Is that a good thing or a bad thing? And to the Civic Platform, I'd like to ask you a question. What are you defending? You're defending this old deal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And what can be said about how you were leading foreign policy is enough to recall the speech of your foreign minister, who called on the neighbouring state to lead. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yes. And in this context, why did you need a real diplomatic service when you were going to implement directives from other countries anyway? You have the diplomatic service of a real event, carrying out the Polish national interest, [[♪ The bell ♪]] She wasn't needed. [[Applause]] [[Just like Waszczykowski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u379	Małgorzata Gosievska, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u380	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs dominated informal influences of special services, political environments or business environments. This is one of the conclusions of the report by the Polish foreign service prepared by the Inter-Business Committee on Solidarity. I don't know if you know this report, and I think it would be worth getting acquainted. Maybe I'll read it. The report was prepared on the basis of surveys carried out among the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2010, at the end of 2010. We can read there that most workers believe that a close relationship with the boss, with a direct supervisor, is a prerequisite for success and recognition of achievements. When asked if we were appreciated, as much as 60% respondents answer: it depends if I know anyone, 82% Asked claims that it takes too low or humiliatingly low positions, 85% The respondents argue that the relationship at work should change. The biggest problems are mutual unkindness, gossip, intrigue and tense atmosphere caused by the boss. That's the kind of MFA you're defending. [[What's the bill doing?]] I have a question for the Minister: Is this report available somewhere? Could the Minister pass this report on to those parliamentarians who are defending these old orders, these orders... [[But what does this bill improve?]] ...who reigned for years in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they actually decided on promotions? Guys, acquaintances and deals with the Polish People's Republic. Could this material be handed over to parliamentarians for consideration? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u381	Mr Dominik Tarczyński will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Two questions. First, is it true that 80% of those that this law will apply to, as the first foreign language indicates Russian? Secondly, is it true that in one of the largest diplomatic posts after the recent change, it turned out that only the cleaning lady was not a secret co-worker? And yet to the eagle of Polish diplomacy, he is not in the Chamber, Mr Niesiołowski, a specialist in mirabelle and chow. I'd like to quote his own words when he spoke disdainfully, confidently that if you win, you'll vote it all out. That's what we won. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very wise questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u383	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, is absent. So the last question will be asked by Mr Józef Leśniak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2014 the Council The Supreme Audit Chamber has published a report on the audit entitled "Selection and management of the personnel resources of the foreign service'. The NIK points out that the Minister of the time, giving diplomatic degrees, abuses the unique mode. During the period under scrutiny, almost half of them were allocated in a specific manner as set out in Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Foreign Service Act. It provides for the possibility, in particularly justified cases, of giving a diplomatic degree for the time necessary to carry out tasks in a diplomatic post to a person who is a member of a foreign service who does not meet all the requirements of the Foreign Service Act. As a result, diplomatic degrees were awarded to persons who did not have a completed application or a diplomatic/consulary examination or confirmed knowledge of at least two foreign languages. Here's my question: Does the new law provide for rules for the granting of diplomatic degrees? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u385	Thank you very much. I will ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Jan Dziedziczak to answer these questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been a lot of questions from your Members, so let me refer to at least some of these questions, and we will try to give you the rest of the answers in writing. The first thing or even the thread that has appeared several times in your statements concerns the number of people made redundant. Mr Długi even spoke of 3,000. people, after all, were referred to this later. That's completely untrue. That's completely untrue, and I don't know where the number is from. The supposedly fired people came along. Absolutely not. You also asked in your statements about the estimated number of people made redundant. I'm sure that's what I can guarantee you, and it's going to be a smaller number than it was fired in the years of the PO-PSL coalition. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] I'll remind you, it was about 300 people back then. Now it will, I can say, even several times less. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen in the speeches of the opposition parliamentarians some strange coalition, a coalition of preserving what has been happening in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 27 years. Mr Sawicki even recalled the time of AWS. The Minister said that even in AWS, they were employed, sent to MGIMO courses, only few people remember that during the reign of AWS the minister was Bronisław Geremek. We have a different idea of conducting diplomacy, maybe that's why we're proposing a completely different approach. People after schools in the East will certainly not be preferred here. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Minister Sawicki, whom I respect very much, mentioned among others. I'm also talking about counselors from the Ministry of Agriculture. Minister, you asked me why they weren't filled, and you blamed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The problem is that such people are recommended by the Ministry of Agriculture. You, as former Minister of Agriculture, should know that. So either you know it and deliberately the House is misleading, or you didn't know it. That's what makes you weak as a minister of agriculture. [[And the Minister of Agriculture is still from PSL?]] No, but the point is, you should know that. The Lord was talking about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs being responsible for this. So here's the question: Did Minister Sawicki mislead all of you and deliberately put it this way, burdening the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or didn't he just know what the mechanisms were, which after a few years of being a minister is quite embarrassing? Ladies and gentlemen, there was an argument about the family clans. We even heard about collective responsibility here at 1968, which has already made me particularly amused. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a little bit like the semantics of these games during communism: the Soviet Union fought for peace, the Security Service ensured security, etc. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We know very well that the problem isn't that someone is going to be fired because they belong to some family because that's definitely not going to happen. The problem was that from 1944 to the period after 1989, people were admitted because they were members of such a family. It was that clanity, it was that pathology. It's not gonna happen now. So don't turn your ideas around, because the problem is somewhere else. The problem is that at many moments of this history of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after 1944, a person could get into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because she was a member of a family of some party dignitary or some high official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not because she was competent. We're changing that now. Once again, there are twice as many listeners at the Academy of Diplomas as there have been in previous years. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs proposed the work of the largest number of KSAP graduates this year from all public administrations. This is an opening, this is an opportunity for everyone just and exclusively because of their competence. It's a situation like this when it comes to hiring, like we've even had... Oh, and speaking of family clans, it seems that the most spectacular example of this was the situation from the time of Minister Radosław Sikorski, when perhaps the most famous young person employed at that time was Maya Rostowska... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...I understand the daughter of his guy from Owl and Friends' restaurant. It was a sign of opportunities for young people given by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the reign of Mr Radosław Sikorski. Mr. Misiewicz, mentioned by you, was employed because of his many years of commitment. Mrs Maya Rostowska, it seems, only because she was the daughter of a colleague of Minister Sikorski's party. If I'm wrong, straighten it out. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been questions. Mr Długi was very critical of our bill. I am even a little surprised that the party, the group, I apologize, Kukiz, which is so skeptical about everything that is happening, and would like to make far-reaching changes, end up with pathologies, just in the case of this law speaks with one voice with representatives of the post-circular establishment. This is strange, but perhaps the biography of Mr Długi himself, who was employed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the days of ministers such as Mr Olechowski or Rosati, speaks a lot about the reasons for this hysterical even defence status quo in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] I'm just surprised that the Kukiz club puts such a person in a debate about foreign service. I'm not hiding that I'm personally disappointed in this. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the other questions are concerned, this was a question of vision. Of course, there is no time or place at the moment, we are talking more about the technical dimension, about the structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not about the vision, but I do not hide that this vision, which is being implemented at the moment, has resulted in even an unprecedented success of the NATO Summit in Warsaw and finally with the presence of allied troops in our country, a real security policy... Let us not hide the consequences of our foreign policy - we have recently had the opportunity to observe them in Orzysz, welcoming troops of allies - they are more spectacular and more effective when it comes to Polish interests than what has happened in recent years. Let me remind you that the predictions of our foreign services almost on the eve of the war in Ukraine suggested that we are completely in a safe time and region. That's what happened back then. As far as the Polish way to NATO is concerned, of course we are proud that we are representatives of the camp, which in the past was represented by Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, who started the way of the Republic of Poland to NATO against, let us remind, so liked by you by President Lech Wałęsa, who then torpedoed Poland's idea of joining NATO in an extremely active way, talking about some NATO-bis concepts that would de facto shatter over the years, it can be summed up so much, our security. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been several questions about the relationship with the Polish state. How will this be verified? Ladies and gentlemen, this matter has been clarified, analyzed, deepened, translated. Of course, it is about the ethos of a foreign official, and it is precisely about breaking the idea that foreign service has been working for hours. 8 to 8 a.m. 16. No, working in foreign service, as the name suggests, is a service for Poland. It's a job. also on holidays, holidays, evenings, just when the interest of Poland requires it. We want to introduce this approach, which is obvious in many other countries. As far as the issue of the construction of the Berlin embassy is concerned, because the Member also asked, the tender was terminated because it was ordered by the law. This offer was 100 million more expensive than even the PO-PSL offer assumed, and at the moment the prosecution is investigating it. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the questions of Mr Nitras, why Poland defends a criminal abroad, why it is claimed, even if it is a form of prison time - it is simply the conduct of the consular service of every serious country in the world. He just takes care of the citizen, even if he's a criminal. The Polish consul will be interested in the form of his punishment, the conditions under which he is punished, because this is our citizen, and it is the responsibility of Polish consular services to care for citizens outside the country, whoever they are, even criminals. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] That's how a serious country behaves. About the questions... Mr Święcicki breaks his hands that, according to these criteria, Mr Kwasniewski, Rosati, who else there - Miller, could not be employed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. First of all, there are no such solutions in the bill, secondly, by the way, it wouldn't be bad if such people... [[They weren't working.]] ...they didn't work there. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kobyliński... I must say that I disagree with your statement: no matter when they started or who they served before. I believe that it is exactly the opposite, that is to say, in the assessment of particularly sensitive service, such as foreign service, but it is worth looking at who these people served in their biography. As regards Mrs Czernow's question, ladies and gentlemen, which suggested that this proposal provides for the dismissal of all employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before 1989, there is obviously no such provision and I do not know where that is coming from. As regards the question, ladies and gentlemen, according to which criteria this verification will take place, first of all we will take into account the needs of the foreign service, we will take into account the budgetary resources, the staff resources and the assessment of the performance of the service so far. This is what I've been talking about, and it can't be that the territorial department has 20 people, 15 people, and the administrative department has 180. We need to take into account the needs of foreign service, that is, what Poland wants to achieve abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that in the past 28 years these changes have been small and the environment that ruled the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with a few exceptions, had about the same line, the continuation line. We want to change this, we want to modernise the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we want to lead to such a situation that Poland will have professional services, unprotected by any elements of the past that would prevent a diplomat from working effectively for Poland. We want to see this modern approach, which is present in other countries of the European Union, also visible in our diplomatic services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Tough questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u387	Mr Marek Sawicki, a club of the Polish People's Party, submitted a request to meet. There you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u388	Minister! Speaking of AWS and school, I did not say this to defend Moscow school graduates, only to show that there was a certain continuity of functioning of the Polish state and Polish diplomacy. I know that in the days of AWS, the Minister was in a very deep opposition and that you do not identify with this political environment at all. I also mention the reign of Jarosław Kaczyński, Andrzej Lepper, AWS, PiS, the League of Polish Families and Self-Defense. It was at that time that the idea of diplomats developed. I wouldn't want this concept to become valid again after the law came into force. About the farm counselors. The Minister knows very well that, yes, the Ministry of Agriculture reports to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs candidates for agricultural advisors, but the entire examination procedure, studies, preparation and consent, is carried out in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If you're complaining to me about the fact that for 17 months there have been no important positions of agricultural advisors in China, and that your minister, Prime Minister and President of the Government have signed agreements and trade agreements with China not long ago, then you have to blame yourself. again to his agricultural minister, to the PiS government, not to the opposition Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u389	Second corrigendum - Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u390	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I respect you for a lot of reasons, and I don't want to make a personal attack, and I just want things to be clear. But I would like to understand to the initiators of this law that, within the framework of this Polish People's Republic, which remains, perhaps it is only the existence that shapes consciousness in these inventors. My previous employment from 20 or 30 years ago is of no importance to the assessment that this law is simply wrong, this law is not good. I just want to remind you, Minister, that all these so-called. Resort children, i.e. people - we know what we understand under this motto - did not finish their studies in Moscow or Odessa, they graduated from Harvard, they were sent to Sorbonne, etc. Yeah, well, that's not the way it cleans up. Really, this method you've adopted is wrong, it's illegal. That's the biggest charge I've ever made. This idea that has been applied should only be in exceptional situations. Moreover, even the Constitutional Tribunal commented on this matter years ago that only exceptionally something like this could be applied. There is not at this moment an extraordinary situation that requires revolutionary solutions. Those who are unfit for foreign service should simply be released... [[This isn't a correction, your marshal, it's polemics.]] ...and all persons should not be released. You're giving yourself a lot of work, a lot of costs will be spent just to clean up. This is a bad solution and it has nothing to do with my previous employment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u391	The discussion is closed. 1. What will it be like to verify that Polish diplomats have sufficiently strong ties with the Polish state in the case of new candidates for diplomats? [[I'm waiting for a written answer.]] In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to refer the draft law to the joint committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Commission. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services (Print No. 1430). I ask Mr Stanisław Tyszka to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present to you a draft amendment to the law on value added tax - a project that Kukiz has proposed as part of our legislative action on Mondays of freedom. This is an action which is a complete novelty in the Polish Parliament, namely a deregulation action, simplifying the law, proposing the liquidation or merger of unnecessary, overdeveloped state institutions. This project is unique and very simple at the same time. Exceptional in the sense that very rarely the High House has the opportunity to discuss projects that reduce taxes. You usually deal with projects that raise or introduce new taxes and taxes. What's the project? The point is that we want to put an end to a situation that deviates from reality, from technological progress and is contrary to a common sense approach. If you buy a book, e.g. The free choice of Milton and Rose Friedman is charged with 5% VAT. If you would like to buy the same book in electronic form and read e.g. on the tablet, it will be taxed at a rate of 23 percent. We propose to introduce an electronic rate of 5% on books, the same as on paper books, and we also propose to reduce the rate for electronic editions to 8% of the electronic press, just as paper newspapers are taxed. Currently, the share of e-books and e-publications in the reading market is around 3.5%. This low share is, of course, due to the under-taxation of these publications, which in fact constitutes discrimination against electronic publications. We are referring here to the principle of equal taxation. Meaning books and magazines, regardless of their form, should be taxed equally. Why? Because when a reader buys a book, he acquires a certain content, not a medium on which it is written. The observance of the principle of equal VAT therefore obliges the legislator to make equal taxation of the sale of content irrespective of what medium it is written on, whether physical, online or electronic. The project, we hope, will have a positive impact on reading in Poland, which is not well. According to the National Library's research, only 37% in 2015 citizens had one or more books in their hands. As we know, people are more and more eager to use electronic media, so the lower price of e-Publishing, e-books will be positive also for reading. As for the impact on the budget, if we approach it in a static way, the budget would lose about PLN 63 million, while we are convinced, and so point out all the studies that at the time of tax reduction higher sales of e-books, e-publications will also compensate the state budget for the loss of these revenues. The draft was brought before the Legislative Commission on the grounds of allegations of its non-compliance with European Union law. I would therefore like to refer to this because I expect the Civic Platform to raise this issue because it is the only group that has voted against this project so far. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in France and Italy there are lower VAT rates for electronic books and electronic publications - in France this is 5.5% In Italy, 4%. And it turns out you can. I mean, in Brussels, the Commission is working to make it possible to tax lower rates of electronic books and electronic publications. On 1 December last year, such a project was presented, these works are ongoing. According to my information, they are only blocked by the Czech Republic, which here have some political tactics, but sooner or later it will happen. Neither France nor Italy are held liable at this time. Therefore, I would like to encourage you to have an individual, courageous policy towards the European Union as well. On the other hand, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Finance, would like to encourage - since Minister Morawiecki often repeats that he is placing new technologies on - to stop discrimination against those who use these new technologies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u393	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I will ask Mr Łukasz Schreiber to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services. This important law concerns lower VAT on e-books and electronic publications. It can be said that there are at least two reasons to be satisfied with the proposed legislation and one serious problem. I'll start with the reasons why we can be happy. Undoubtedly, this demonstration of the opposition's submission of such draft laws, which we can discuss, i.e. projects about lower taxes, about changing things for the better, about helping not only entrepreneurs who carry out this activity, but also people who reach for these publications, is a very good thing. It is also appropriate what concerns the substance of this problem, because the situation in which normal books are simply covered with 5% VAT and 23 percent e-books is at least incomprehensible from the consumer's point of view. The introduction of this bill also has a personal dimension for me, because I was doing business myself, among others. an antique shop and a bookstore, which is why I understand this issue well. Finally, if fraud is carried out somewhere, you can say, you try to use this lower VAT rate for books, e.g. by making DVDs in the form of a several-page booklet, and in the case of e-books it is rather difficult to imagine this kind of application. But I also mentioned the problem at the beginning, and the problem was also referred to by the applicant. This problem is undoubtedly the EU regulation, the EU directive that is in force. The European Union has already started in 2015, and this must also be said, among others. on the initiative of Poland, work on amending this directive so as to allow countries to shape lower VAT into e-books and electronic publications. At this moment, it was also mentioned, the Czechs oppose it. As it seems, this is not about the essence of this problem, but about some game in which the Czechs want something else. However, the work is going to end, but in fact due to the attitude, we are not able to predict whether this regulation can be adopted, within 2 weeks, 2 months or longer. Therefore, this project, which we are discussing today, as I said, well-prepared as to substance, here also has no problems, but has this basic flaw. I would therefore like to make it clear that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice wants and will seek to reduce the VAT rate on e-books and electronic publications, but when EU law permits it. Therefore, in order not to create a certain situation of fiction, unfortunately we are forced in the present state of procedure to submit a proposal for rejection in its entirety at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u395	Civic Platform Club, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position on the Parliamentary draft law amending the law on taxation on goods and services. The explanatory memorandum states that the project aims to align VAT rates on e-books and books and newspapers and their e-issues by reducing VAT rates for electronic publications. In general, it is appropriate to agree with the assessment that it is not justified to differentiate the rates between printed publications or, as is the case in the legal language, on physical media and in electronic form. However, unfortunately, the current provisions of Council Directive 2006/112 of 28 November on the common system of value added tax clearly do not allow the application of reduced rates for electronic publication. It is simply not possible for Member States to do so under this existing directive. The authors of the project are aware of this because they write, from a legal point of view, quite originally, that the provisions presented by the European Commission on 1 December 2016 of the draft directive, according to which Member States have the right to apply a reduced rate, are being implemented by this law. Ladies and gentlemen, there we are dealing with a draft directive, because the European Union is aware that this is a problem, but at the moment it is just a draft directive. Besides, it is true that the European Union sees this mainly because - as my predecessor said - Poland drew attention to it, but my predecessor forgot to add that it was the government of PO-PSL. I understand it somehow, and that forgetfulness is fine with me. The government has pointed out this and this work has been underway ever since. So the situation today is that, unfortunately, the directive does not allow these rates to be reduced. Soon we can expect this situation to change. France, which has indeed lowered these rates, has lost the process, where it has clearly been said that it is breaking European Union rules. Not just France. Luxembourg suffered a similar failure. Moreover, Luxembourg has returned to its lawful state. So here the situation is that if we lower these rates, we will remain in disagreement with the law of the European Union. Thus, the project is premature and these proposed changes can be implemented when EU law permits. That's our conclusion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u397	On behalf of the Kukiz club15, Mr Maciej Masławski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u398	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not an honor, but it's a pleasure to introduce the club's position. The position of course is known, it will be as presented by the applicant, Marshal Tyszka, because it is our project, a good project. I am even more shocked that a motion for rejection has been made at all, because I understand both Mr Schreiber and Mr Nykiel that this is not in line with the EU directive, but we must remember two things. France, yes, had consequences, but was not afraid, and she has these subjective functions, not those in question. We could fight, too. Besides, we're talking about working on this bill. Today, let us come up with some solutions that we will ultimately vote on, and we will introduce them at a time when Brussels will unblock this tax reduction for the Member States. Although this is going very slowly to the European Commission, because it's been three years now, but why do we have to do it again... If we reject this project now, we'll do it when the Union says, well, you can. If they say, well, you can, then we'll be prepared for it on the first day. That's what I think. Once again, despite the motion for rejection, I will try to convince you, because it is absurd for me that someone could even make such a motion and be against it. In addition to this EU directive, the difference in tax between printed books and e-books is incomprehensible at all, because, as the applicant said, it is the same product. We use low VAT on books, because we appreciate the value of reading, so please explain to me how it is different to read "Crimes and Punishments" in a paper version than in an electronic version. We have to go with the spirit of time. I love books, we as Kukiz.15 very much appreciate books. If it weren't for the books, we wouldn't be here, but we have to go with the spirit of time. Today electronic books come in, it's a natural thing that there are electronic books, there are electronic editions of newspapers, magazines, and we just need to introduce it. I know somebody's gonna want to protect you, for example. And the bookstore shall say, What shall the bookstores say? But there used to be video rentals, there aren't any today, and it's also said that the book is exclusive, more exclusive than an e-book. It should be 23% for the book and 5% for the e-book. That's what it looks like. Besides, bookstores wouldn't really lose it at all, because reading would go up. We know that. Using such high VAT rates on e-books, we limit the overall development of the entire market. Consumers, seeing the high price of e-books, reach for illegal versions, so-called. pirates. You know it well, it's on the agenda, so they really lose the publishers, and the Treasury. That is the truth, that there are these pirates and we as a Polish country are simply losing on it. So if we take this statistically, as the applicant said, yes, it is tens of millions, but we will lose even more because of these pirate versions. We also know that books and textbooks in the form of e-books are very popular among students and students. Therefore, this high VAT on e-books also hits the least people. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also this information: the results of the reading are alarming. In general, the average adult Pole reads about one book a year. So in a situation where VAT is 23% and e-books in one way or another become more and more popular, this high VAT on e-books is simply an absurd idea. Whoever reads one book a year will now read even less if we are talking about e-books. Another thing is that, of course, if we want to promote reading among young people, this tax reduction is one of the best ideas, because books will become more accessible, in electronic form, by e-book readers, it is the natural order of things. Another thing, such as mine, as I am a computer scientist - high VAT on e-books, on e-publishers different, on e-mails restricts the development of the market. How are we supposed to build an information society based on knowledge, if even in such a fundamental matter the state cannot give up absurdly high taxes? And finally, ladies and gentlemen, one more thing worth mentioning. Namely, very often we talk about how we care about protecting the environment. Technology is the best example of this. Inventing a USB memory card saved more trees than all ecological movements combined. E-books are environmentally friendly, so why don't we give them a chance? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u399	Thank you. And on behalf of the Modern Club, please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u400	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present the position of the Members' Club in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services, contained in print No. 1430. The subject matter of this law is the proposal to add to Annex 3 to the Act on VAT on goods and services, i.e. the Annex in which goods are placed at a reduced rate of 7%. tax on goods and services... Let me remind you, the rate is 7%. , because the rate is 8% is only at a transitional rate, introduced by the governments of PO and PSL, and extended by the governments of PiS. The reduced rate of tax on goods and services in the Polish system is 7% , just as the basic rate of duty on goods of services is not a 23% rate , only 22% rate which is periodically increased to 23%. It is worth knowing about these rates of tax on goods and services. It is also proposed to amend Annex 10, i.e. the rate of 5% for books published in electronic form. And this, of course, has a deep justification, because Modern has always advocated and advocated tax reductions, but Modern has also advocated and advocated simplification of tax law. Indeed, it is very difficult for the consumer to explain why a literary work in the form of a printed book is taxed at a rate of 5%. Whereas the same literary product, but in the form exclusively placed on an electronic medium, is already taxed at the basic rate, i.e. 22% , periodically 23%. In fact, the law is a little premature because of the fact that the value added tax and the provisions on value added tax in force in the European Union are mandatory in the Polish legal system. This is a system of the common market and here countries that have different rates on such goods have benefited from a derogation, i.e. special rights to lower rates. Poland has not sought this, and therefore it is not possible to introduce this rate. But the fact is, as has also been pointed out, that the Union is working on amending the Directive and covering both magazines and books published in electronic form with just reduced rates, i.e. with such rates as... That is, not to reduce - such rates as are for books or magazines published in traditional form. Hence the Poselski Club The modern one is in favour of further proceding the draft of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You've slipped your tongue, but we understand your intention.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u401	The rest of the time - Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a very important project. I think it's worth reminding you how it happened that we have 5% VAT on books. In 2010, Bogdan Zdrojewski was forced to introduce this 5% VAT into books because such rules were dictated by the European Union. But there's something more important. It was possible to avoid this tax on books when Poland entered the European Union. No one has done this and the cultural sphere has just not been taken care of. Today we all in Europe know that people are reading less and less, especially those who do not have a tradition of reading such as Sweden, Germany, France or the United Kingdom. The National Library has just published the latest data and they are appalling. In 2016, 63% of Poles and Poles did not take the book into their hands. So today we should really fight to get people to start reading books. And that's of course also the address to our MEPs to amend this EU directive, because, I think and I am absolutely aware of it - reading is the Polish right of state, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and this means a more sensible Polish democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u403	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska to speak and speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour and pleasure to present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services. As stated in the applicant's explanatory memorandum, the main objective is to align VAT rates on e-books and books and newspapers and their e-issues by reducing the rates for electronic publications. And let me remind you that the project introduces a 5% VAT rate on e-books, which are currently taxed at 23% while paper books are taxed at a 5% VAT rate, and 8% VAT on e-publications - magazines and newspapers - which are currently taxed at a 23 percent VAT rate, and paper magazines and newspapers at an 8% rate. Indeed, this differentiation is unnecessary, unnecessary and it seems logical to introduce uniform VAT rates in this respect. At a time of progress or increase in technological progress, this proposal is absolutely justified, especially since it has already covered many areas of our lives when it comes to the electronic system. It concerns various types of settlement, transmission of information or correspondence. And from this point of view, reading books or magazines especially in the case of younger people is taking place using electronic achievements and seems to be a completely natural process. However, there is a problem, simply because this proposal is incompatible with European Union law. A clear opinion, attached to the project, was presented by the Office for Sejm Analysis. Although applicants claim that some countries have gone ahead and have already introduced this, we are also aware of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union which they consider contrary to EU law. Of course, I am talking about contradictions with the VAT Directive, which is briefly referred to as Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax, together with the subsequent implementing regulations of that Directive. In conclusion, however, I would like to say and stress that the project is generally good and has been presented with a really beautiful justification by both the rapporteur and the representative of the Kukiz club15. Indeed, it goes with the spirit of time, with the spirit of progress, but it is one thing. That it cannot be supported here and now, because it is simply impossible because of the conflict with the law. We have to respect the law. And I'm even a little surprised, I know, I understand that you have your project, you want to do it systematically, the project after the project, but this is the way out in front of the line, well, a little bit like that with nonchalance to the law. It seems to me that at this moment it is simply not possible to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u405	On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, you have made a written statement by Mr Ireneusz Gaina. Three persons entered on the list of Members wishing to ask questions. Anyone else want to sign up? [[Game in the O.R.]] Four people, then. I'm closing the list. Question time - one and a half minutes. You are starting with Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The date of entry into force is obsolete because the project came from last year. A few months ago, I filed an interpellation of similar content on the reduction and equalisation of VAT on printed and electronic books. I was told then that we have to comply with the rules adopted in the Union for the time being, but the Union changes its law so that Member States can decide on the amount of VAT for books, including e-books. The European Commission is currently working on a legislative proposal submitted by the European Commission on 1 December 2016 on a proposal for a Council Directive amending the VAT Directive as regards the value added tax rates applicable to books, newspapers and magazines. I would like to ask the Minister at what stage these work at European Union level is at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u407	Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u408	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law on amending the law on taxation on goods and services is a project nice to my heart, because reading in Poland is really falling, does not read adults, does not read young people, does not read children, but because of the current position of the European Union it is impossible to implement this proposed law in Poland. Negotiations are ongoing and I hope that the high activity of Poland will make such regulations possible. I wanted to ask the applicants: Why are you submitting this project at the moment, if you know in advance that it is simply impossible to introduce that the European Union does not allow it at the moment? I would like to make it clear that I will be the first person to raise a hand behind such a project if Poland is no longer exposed to various penalties and consequences of such a solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u409	Thank you. Mr Jacek Falfus, Club Law and Justice. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u410	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question like that. When the European Union would issue a directive that would reduce the VAT rate on e-books, what would be the government's position on this issue? Would the Ministry then support a reduction in this tax? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u411	Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u412	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant, Mr Marshal. Namely - it has already been said here - France has introduced a solution which is more or less like what is proposed in this project. The case was subsequently brought to court where it was found that French law was incompatible with EU law. I wanted to know, what happened? What about it? In other words, I wanted to know if maybe we just needed some courage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u413	And one last question. Mr Blazej Parda, also a Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We know: books - 5% , e-edition - 23% The question is, who's been thinking from the start that maybe we're paying for paper, maybe we're paying for megabytes. After all, the content is creation, thought, something fleeting, and on the other hand - something that often lasts hundreds of years. Who in the European Union has come to treat the same good in different ways? I can't be surprised. The question is, what were our MEPs doing... I mean, ours... That's more of a question for the Law and Justice and the Civic Platform. What have your MEPs been doing over the last few years, that it's only now, for some time now, that this case has come to light? Mr. Applicant, I declare my support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u415	Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Paweł Gruza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to say that the government's position on the revision of the VAT Directive is clear and presented on several occasions. Of course, we support the proposal to amend the directive for all the reasons that have been mentioned here just now from this speaker. Yes, as regards VAT rates, we consider it illogical to distinguish the content of publications in paper and electronic form. We are actively working on the content of these provisions and this legislative amendment on the directive. There are a number of substantive doubts about how to formulate the scope of this cultivation, so that under this privilege there is no purely entertaining content associated with music and films. Contrary to appearances, this is not a trivial problem. One can say that a similar problem occurs in this material sphere when we buy a book about a film to which the film itself is attached. Sometimes, taxpayers take advantage of the book's reduced rate privilege by selling video content also at a reduced rate, which should not be the case. Therefore, there is a substantive discussion and at the moment there is a substantive work on the content of the provisions amending the VAT Directive. Here the government's position is clear: we support this project and actively participate in its preparation. As a general rule, Member States also support this, so we do not see any particular risks regarding the likelihood of this project entering into force in the coming months. Unfortunately, we are not at the moment able to set a deadline for a final legislative proposal at European Union level. We don't know if it's gonna be a month or six months. Nevertheless, we are optimistic about the completion of this work this year. I would also like to say that there is also a process of reviewing and evaluating reduced rates at European Union level in different Member States. Despite the functionality of the VAT Directive aimed at harmonising VAT rates, this process has not been completed since the beginning of the history of the VAT Directives. There have been such anomalies that the old Member States have far greater privileges than those joining the Union in our midst, which is neither fair nor healthy. Therefore, this review takes place, it is to end this year. Again: we are an active participant in this review and we believe that the start of work ahead of a little legislative developments in the European Union in this area may also hinder our negotiating position in this broader review of reduced rates. Therefore, according to the Ministry of Finance, the project is clearly correct. We believe that this is a premature proposal that may cause problems in our negotiations during the revision of VAT rates. There is, of course, a substantive layer, i.e. The wording of the scope of the reduced rate privilege must wait for the wording drawn up at the level of the Directive. The discussion on the scope of the reduced rate in this project is not justified at this time, in the current legal state binding Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u417	And a representative of the applicants, Mr Stanisław Tyszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for all the votes. As I listened to them, I grew amazement and a little nervous. If you scream eight years that foreign policy must not be conducted on your knees and then you come out and say that Polish readers are worse than French, Italian, then I do not understand it completely. Why can Italians and French people pay a reduced VAT rate imposed on electronic publications, electronic books and Polish readers cannot? What are Polish readers worse at? Is Poland a second category country in the European Union? And now, Mr Schreiber, the issue of compliance with European Union law has been raised in the Legislative Commission. The Legislative Commission rejected these doubts by the votes of Members of the Law and Justice. I have the impression of some schizophrenia on the side of Law and Justice, which is why I have a hot appeal for you to reconsider and withdraw your motion to reject it at first reading. It doesn't serve anyone, and it certainly doesn't serve Polish citizens. Thank you very much to Mr Grzegorz Długo for asking what happened to France at a time when the Court of Justice actually ruled on 5 March 2015 that the French rate of reduced VAT, 5.5% , is incompatible with European Union law. Nothing happened to France. There is neither another application to the Court nor a request for a financial penalty. Ladies and gentlemen, I really encourage you to start thinking about Polish foreign policy, about our place in Europe in a more subjective and courageous way. Let us start there taking care of the interests of Poles, let us not worry about the fact that something may be temporarily incompatible with European Union law. Enough of this legal positivism, this formalism. Let us start thinking in terms of the interests of Polish citizens. Belgium has started legislative work on reducing VAT rates for electronic publications to 6% and they are now continuing because the Belgians are not afraid - they are not as afraid as the Polish political parties are unfortunately afraid. I repeat, this is the situation that, on the one hand, it is a bit of courage in foreign policy, in taking care of the interests of Poles in the European Union and in that we are not worse than the Italians, the French or, soon, the Belgians, and on the other hand, it is a matter of the fact that, if we recognise in committee - if the Law and Justice agree, however, to send it back to committee and work on it further - that these arguments for temporary non-compliance with European Union law prevail so that we have to wait, then we will work on this project, which will go to committee. Once again, I encourage Law and Justice to do something for Polish taxpayers for the first time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u419	The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law on the restitution of national cultural goods (prints No. 1371 and No. 1487). I ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u420	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Shortly: at its meeting on 20 April 2017, the Committee on Culture and Media adopted the draft law without comments, unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u421	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. But before that happens, it's a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 46 hrs. 19 min 49]] I'll resume the session after recess. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Miss Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to speak again, this time on behalf of the club Law and Justice. You're welcome. I hope it's gonna be so short, great, fast, so fast.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u422	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act consumes the provisions of the EU directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union. The aim of this Directive is to build the integrity of the cultural heritage of each of the European Union countries by simply facilitating their investigation of the return of cultural objects illegally removed from their countries. The Restitution of Cultural Goods has not yet been regulated in Poland in a uniform, comprehensive way. For this purpose, e.g. were used. civil law regulations. This law defines the authorities competent for the restitution of cultural objects, their tasks and powers, introduces new categories and concepts such as the national cultural good or public collections into Polish legislation, sets out rules for the procedure for the return from the European Union of Polish national cultural objects and on the return from Poland of cultural objects illegally removed, introduces provisions to improve the procedure for ordering the return of cultural objects, eliminates the existing legal gaps and ambiguities in this matter, introduces legal regulations to safeguard the found cultural good, and introduces criminal rules relating primarily to behaviours consisting in obstructing the recovery of national cultural goods. According to the draft law, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage will be responsible for the restitution of cultural goods. He has among others. take action at home and abroad to recover the lost cultural object. The Act also sets out cases where the Minister has an obligation of office to deal with the matter of return of property. It will also be obliged to cooperate with the relevant institutions of the EU countries and to promote mutual consultation on the return of cultural objects within the European Union. To put it simply, it is a project that gives the opportunity to recover illegally lost cultural goods more effectively and more quickly. The Law and Justice Club supports the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u423	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u424	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on the restitution of national cultural goods. The project is designed to recover cultural goods that have been unlawfully lost more effectively and quickly. It is also intended to increase the legal security of goods in the event of theft or misappropriation. The project implements in Polish legislation a European Union directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union. The aim of the Directive is to protect the integrity of the cultural heritage of each of the European Union countries by facilitating their investigation into the return of cultural goods illegally removed from those countries. The Minister of Culture and National Heritage will be responsible for the restitution of cultural goods. The draft law sets out the rules of procedure for the return from the European Union of Polish national cultural goods removed from the country in violation of the law and for the return by Poland of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the European Union in breach of the law, from countries other than the EU. In addition, it is proposed to introduce provisions to improve the procedure for ordering the return of cultural goods, for the safety of the cultural goods found, to extend the obligation to obtain export licences for non-historical cultural goods, to lay down general rules for dealing with cultural goods brought out of Poland in breach of the law after their return. Criminal rules will also be introduced on behaviour that hinders proceedings for the return of the foreign national cultural object. In such a situation, the perpetrator will be sentenced to imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years. In addition, the court will be able to refer to the stated social objective related to the care of monuments. For the Republic of Poland, the importance of restitution of cultural goods and the protection of preserved cultural and national heritage is particularly important. Attention should be paid to the loss of most of the historical resources of this heritage not only in the wake of World War II, but also in previous historical events and circumstances accompanied by the robbery and destruction of cultural goods. While public international law has shaped the principles of interstate restitution, Polish law currently does not contain rules governing restitution cases and civil law issues arising from them. These circumstances justify the need to create regulations in Polish law specifically to ensure effective protection of preserved cultural and national heritage, and therefore the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will be in favour of the law on the restitution of national cultural goods. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u425	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, on behalf of the Kukiz15 club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u426	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law on the restitution of cultural objects, which is the implementation of the 2014 European Parliament and Council Directive. So far the issue of restitution has not been settled in principle in Polish law, which due to the huge losses that Poland has suffered in the sphere of cultural heritage in the last century, the past century, is a worse neglect. Poland is one of Europe's most at risk of crime against cultural heritage, and we have not yet had or have no coherent system of protection of this heritage. The proposed project basically organizes the process of restitution, not only monuments, it also includes museums, archival and library materials, which is a positive change, comparing to the current legal situation. This increases the legal security of valuable objects, as well as the individual services receive new legal tools to ensure this security. Let us hope that the improved procedure will be more effective when it comes to the recovery of lost cultural goods, e.g. to some countries, such as Austria and Germany, where it did not look particularly pink, and that we will make even more efforts to recover our valuable objects from the territories of Eastern Europe, not only those first exported by the conqueror, later by the Bolshevik invader, but even those Polish archives which today are not fully returned to Poland by the Ukrainian side, and if Ukraine aspires to the name of the European State, it should solve this issue. The bill presented also regulates a number of other important issues, such as the reimbursement of costs associated with the restitution process, and these are quite high costs, we can estimate this or the proper management of the goods recovered. This is, of course, about actions still during the process, e.g. transfer of the good to a specialised institution. We are pleased that the draft submitted is a government project, with an impact assessment, with public consultation, with draft regulations to this law. In fact, this should be a well-established law, and this is such a very positive example. It is a good bill, well prepared, not generating a series of controversy, like some others, and it is not burdened with various types of substantive or linguistic errors. Thanks to this work, e.g. at committee stage whether the subcommittee was running very smoothly and the direction of these changes was supported by all clubs without reservation. I can add from myself that I hope that this is a process that currently regulates restitution at a wider level at international level, but that it will also signal that we will really address the element of restitution, because this is also the issue, in relation to what was stolen from Polish citizens who lived in Poland after World War II, and consequently also to the so-called issues. reprivatisation, but in a sense also restitution of cultural goods, because they were also somehow acquired in violation of property rights. The Kukiz Club15 supports the proposed draft amendments. This is a good change in order to protect Polish cultural heritage. Of course, we will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u427	The performances of the club of the Polish People's Party, Modernity, as well as the wheels of Free and Solidarnia were submitted in writing. There is one person on the list of Members who have joined the question. Would anyone else like to come in? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club. One and a half minutes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In the history of Poland lost huge resources of national cultural goods. The EU directive aims to facilitate the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from our territory. It's a good chance to get them back. Question: "Does the Polish State, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage have records, catalogues or other archives that reflect the lost wealth of Polish culture?" The second question concerns our expectations regarding the return of cultural goods. The financial impact assessment, as we read in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, accepted the estimate of 2 and 6 cases per year. I have a question: Why so little? How many years does it take to recover Polish national cultural goods in part? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u429	I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Jarosław Sellin, to respond. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, before answering these questions, I wanted to thank all the parliamentary clubs for supporting this law, and thank the members of the Committee on Culture and Media and the subcommittee, which was selected in this committee to work on this law, because 65 articles had to be reviewed and I am glad that practically no changes were made, which was noticed from the speaker that the project seemed to be perfectly prepared that no legislative changes were required. This is also important because the directive, which some Members mentioned here, which was adopted almost two years ago, had an entry into force date, and it was December 2015, so the delay is quite large. This law, which we have proposed, consumes a number of additional things, not only those required by the directive, so it has been processed for so long. It required the formulation of new concepts for this law, that we move very precisely in this area, the division of competences between government authorities, very broad public consultations and, therefore, I admit it in committee, we have already been threatened by the European Union for failing to implement this directive. But the fact that we have dealt with this law so well both in committee, subcommittee and - as I see it - in the plenary room, because we have a chance of voting it out in the block of forthcoming votes, will make this threat impossible. So that I would like to thank you very much for this pace of work. As for what this law will enable us to do, of course it will concern goods that maybe because of some misfortunes or ordinary crimes we will also lose in the future, because they will simply be stolen and found somewhere in the countries of the European Union, and fortunately it will also apply to all the goods we have been looking for for for years, especially those we lost during World War II. We have a catalogue of 63,000. the records, the works we're looking for. They are catalogued and available online. They are so described that even individuals, you can say, detectives who are interested in this, Polish citizens, if they want to find a work or suspect that they have seen such a work somewhere, at some auction somewhere in the world, in some gallery or museum, can very quickly identify such a work from a description or even from photographs that are in these records. We also have a special portal that facilitates this kind of search: shared. gov.pl. With regard to the number of cases that may come up in the near future, of course this estimation that you have pointed out is very cautious, but we hope that this will be much more, also because this process of modernising access to cultural goods in the form of digitalisation of cultural goods makes it very easy for us to find works. Very often it turns out that various cultural institutions, e.g. large museums, galleries, begin to show their catalogs of works in virtual space, which are also in magazines, and not only displayed in exhibition halls. Also auction houses that sell, try to sell some works, are already present in virtual reality. These catalogs are digitized, which makes us more and more able to get to the information that a work has appeared somewhere, which is evidently Polish property, you can evidently ask for it and try to recover it. So that I think this process is going to grow because of this technological change. Often museums have only 10% their catalogued works on exposure, and 90% in warehouses. These magazines are now coming to light through digitization. This makes us hope that much more in the future, in the coming years, we will be able to identify and simply recover these works. Thank you again for this work and for supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u431	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the law on the education information system and certain other laws (prints Nos 1434 and 1483). I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth considered this bill. Several minor amendments were made to clarify the provisions and, in one case, to change the date of entry into force of certain parts of the Act. There have also been legislative and linguistic adjustments. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u433	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Act on the Educational Information System is mainly related to technological issues and the functioning of the Educational Information System. The SIO architecture changes mainly, improves user communication and modifies the data transfer scheme. The current architecture of the educational information system includes a central database, whose administrator is the Minister for Education and Education, and local databases. These local databases are as many as tens of thousands, which generates a lot of problems, among others. from time to time, there is a problem of losing part of the data. For example, in 2015, the Ministry of Education received more than 4.5 thousand. requests for the possibility of recovering these lost data, which involves a complicated procedure. Today, the creation of a single central database, to which individual individuals will enter data via the internet application, will facilitate the security of the entire system and avoid situations where individual individuals had to recover data. The proposed changes also depart from the sequential input procedure. This will enable the user to enter simultaneously the identification data of teachers or students and field data, i.e. data on information about these students or teachers. To date, if there was an error in the PESEL system, data could not be entered further. This data had to be verified with the PESEL identification system, which sometimes lasted several months. At that time, a school or educational institution had some problems. At the same time, the verification of PESEL data is facilitated. This can also be done by the director, school head or educational institution, and during the transition period it will be possible to temporarily register this student or teacher in the educational information system, which will facilitate the functioning of the entire system. The draft amendment also provides for the simplification of the procedure for access to the database by authorised persons. An electronic authorization is all it takes. Such a person will, of course, receive a login and password. Until now, it was the head of the local government unit, and now he can pass this information on to the head of the educational unit, the school, and the head of the school can pass it on to the authorised employee who will carry out these activities on his behalf. This change in the structure of the educational information system will allow, among others. the ability of several people to enter data in several computer stations in a given unit, which has so far been impossible, and there are quite a number of schools where these data were introduced very much. This will therefore facilitate the introduction of field data into the central system. Of course, the data will be collected by qualified entities who have entered this data within the scope of their authorisation, i.e. the head or employee of the educational unit concerned in respect of those data which he transmitted from the premises of his school. In addition to changes in the system of functioning and construction of the educational information system, there are some simplifications. Among other things, the collection of certain individual data on pedagogical and psychological assistance and family upbringing classes for aggregated data is abandoned. It is similar with material aid of a social nature. It is also a simplification of the functioning of the register of schools and educational establishments. Among other things, the school head may modify the telephone number, fax number, e-mail address, no longer required by the local government unit. It is similar with information about school circuits. So far, the whole area of the school's circuit had to be entered. Now, only information will appear as to whether the school is a secondary school and whether the pupils fulfil the school's obligation in a given secondary school. Another element is the resignation of information covering the student's place of residence in relation to the student's teaching in special schools organised in medicinal subjects. The deadline for the transmission of field data on the remuneration components of teachers is amended. So far, these changes had to be made within 7 days of the change, and now it will only be twice a year. In addition, a number of clarifications and details are introduced in several laws: the Law of Education, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Introductory rules and on the income of local government units, but these are provisions not fundamentally amending those laws, but merely clarifying and facilitating the use of the educational information system. The Law and Justice Club will therefore recommend the adoption of this law without amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u435	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u436	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the law on the education information system and certain other laws. The bill presented is a significant modification of the way the current educational information system works. This is due to the need to improve the functioning of the system and simplify its operation. We do not fully agree with the projector's assessment that the substance of this change is merely provisions of a regulatory and technical nature. We do not know the real reason why this is the pace of proceding the presented project. But specifically: the most important solutions are to change the architecture of the educational information system, i.e. to eliminate the so-called. Local bases. In the new solution with the central database, users will communicate through the web browser and there the administrator of this database will be the Minister responsible for education and education. Further: there will be a change in the rules for verification in the PESEL system of identification data, a change in the procedure for granting permissions to access the SIO database, a waiver of the transfer of individual data to the aggregate data, simplified rules for updating selected data in the register of schools, educational establishments, data will be collected in school circuits, rules for keeping school REGON numbers and many other changes. What about the financial consequences? Experience says that in such a vast and complex base, together with changing technological and organisational solutions, there will certainly be problems. Isn't that going to have financial consequences? I don't really believe it myself. The current educational information system has been implemented for a long time and has benefited from the benefits of EU funds. One more question. is the entry into force of certain provisions within 1 day of the date of publication of the law. What is the reason for the withdrawal from the standard 14-day period of vacathio legis? The justification does not explain why selected provisions of the proposed law would enter into force immediately. Art. 4 of the Law on the Publication of Normative Acts states that these reasons must be included in the State's important interest clause. There is no information in this regard and therefore there is a risk that some of the provisions of the project may be declared incompatible with the Constitution. Taking into account the complexity of the law, despite concerns in the organisational and financial sphere when implementing the Act amending the Education Information System Act and some other laws, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the document presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u437	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the Act amending the Act on the Education Information System, contained in print No 1434. The educational information system is used to obtain information that is important for the conduct of State education policy at every administrative level, to determine the effectiveness of the use of public funds for the financing of educational tasks and to improve the quality of education. In practice, it was used as a source of data for sharing educational subsidies. Currently, the education information system is a complex IT tool that supports a large number of different reporting units and also collects a huge amount of data. The educational information system is a tool cooperating with two large and complex state systems, i.e. PESEL and REGON. The draft law significantly modifies the functioning of the educational information system towards its improvement and simplification. This is also the result of catching up after the previous power, which unfortunately poses a certain threat to the implementation of the project - an organisational and financial threat. The essence of the changes are technological modifications, hence the need to consult a specific version with the Ministry of Digitalization. The most important changes are the dismantling of local databases, currently administered by the heads of transferors to the central database of the educational information system, i.e. above all, public directors, non-public schools and educational institutions. They are replaced by the database of the educational information system, hereinafter referred to as the SIO database, and the ICT system. Another change is the revision of the verification rules in the PESEL system of identification data, which is intended to facilitate correction of irregularities and thus reduce the number of unverified pupils and teachers. The procedure for granting authorisations to access the database is also changing as a result of the contested law. Another amendment concerns the abandonment of the transmission of individual data in favour of aggregated data on psychological and pedagogical assistance provided to pupils, participation in family education activities and the provision of social material assistance by municipalities. They will be transmitted as aggregate data. Very important, but also easier to operate entities are solutions for modification and updating of data in the Register of Schools and Educational Institutions and information about school circuits. It is also important to change the possibility of obtaining information from the system relating to pupils. They may be used by the courts and bodies of the State carrying out public tasks. It seems like you have to believe. introducing a draft law that, with the new technological solution, the functioning of the educational information system, hardware requirements will be much lower than today, which will also significantly reduce the costs of the system. Changes are necessary, even though there is no basic data available in the current system, as highlighted by the Supreme Audit Chamber, and the security of the so-called. sensitive data relating to pupils and teachers, even though the system was implemented with considerable financial effort. The Kukiz Poselski Club15 will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u439	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the club Moderna vis-à-vis the draft law amending the law on the educational information system and some other laws, seym print No 1434. Undoubtedly, this is an undisputed issue, we need to modify this system, because I don't think any institution would allow itself to have a system that is intricate today. In addition, the system is assigned to one computer or one laptop, in which one of the employees continues to enter data and then modify them, and then there is really no direct use of it. NIK-owski's report clearly stated that there was a need, and at the same time local authorities also reported the demand, as well as the introductory ones themselves, i.e. primarily educational institutions. The proposed legislative changes actually create a legal framework for the implementation of this modification and are adequate to the intended objective of the amendment. However, I would like to point out here that there is no analysis of the reasons for failure in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, i.e. there is no operational risk, whether implementation will be complete and there will be no failure to comply with other systems. Here I would focus on the analysis of human resources, organizational, financial, condition of other databases, and especially where PESEL data are. It seems to me that this analysis of system failures should be considered as part of the analysis of digitalisation problems. Such an approach would enable the creation of a main resort base. It can be hoped that this would certainly make it easier for all schools to use this system because it would not limit their work to just one computer or one job. Furthermore, I would like to point out here that it has not been abandoned as if a number of unnecessary input data had not been given up. Please note that today, at the moment the teacher goes to L4, first, the doctor introduces this data into his system, which means the ZUS has this information. Also in the internal system... Because in schools there are three systems: one - paper, the other - internal system linked to electronic journal and the third - SIO. At this point, we actually have several times the same data input. So it would be good for a system like this to be correlated with other systems to respect human work so as not to create bureaucracy, because it doesn't really help us. So I hope that this character of the SIO base, so-called. megabytes will pay attention to the fact that they do not need to be littered with all the data. Here, too, you are talking about the fact that this does not have any financial consequences. I don't necessarily agree with that. First of all, we are not able to determine this risk today. Secondly, let us remember that so far the introduction of the SIO has been carried out using EU funds, so the money for this purpose had to be directed. So here I think it's not very reliable information. The next thread concerns precisely this amount of data collected. Why is there so much data going on? What's the purpose of collecting data, how many books are there in the library? Who's it supposed to be for? Perhaps internal bases do, but on a mega scale, on a national scale, such information actually causes this whole system to litter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Here I would like to add that the right principle has been introduced, that the data on psychological and pedagogical assistance is passed on collectively, which is to say that the personalities of individuals are really protected here. I could say much more here, but we generally see the need to modify this system. Therefore, the Modern will certainly support this project, indicating that it should reasonably prepare this system, which will contain relevant data for the education system, rather than pressing data, it is not known why, and to enable here or schools or local governments to benefit from the use of education to be better managed. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u441	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u442	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The educational information system is functioning Indeed, for many years now and in the years to come, various changes in this system have made it very complicated. It became illegible and difficult to grasp. I know that despite training, school heads and educational institutions had problems with the introduction of new data, recovery, sometimes they died, they had to be introduced again. I have a question for the government. What are the facilitations made for school heads, guidance bodies and school curators to make their lives easier, so to speak, and to obtain certain information? Does the improved system guarantee security so-called. sensitive data? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u443	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Supreme Audit Chamber, the existing educational information system in its IT tools has not ensured the full functionality of the mechanisms envisaged to secure the personal data of pupils and teachers. How? will this security be ensured as a result of the adoption of a new law on the education information system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u445	Thank you. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Even before this term, I ran a non-public primary school in Szczecin with the association. I think it was one of the smallest schools in this town. As a small facility, we had many problems implementing such systems. First of all, we had a little secretariat, and there were a lot of these sharpenings, the various things that came from the parole board. Now I have questions: What are the facilitations? Will this time for implementation be appropriate for such small schools to prepare for these changes as well? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u447	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzenna Drab.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me answer your questions collectively. First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly at the beginning for the very positive assessment of these changes that we are proposing. Indeed, we have come up against control here primarily of NIK, the indications from the institutions, from the authorities, the curators, so these are indeed the changes expected. They are primarily also ordering, facilitating the use of the SIO database for data entry into this database, but also drawing knowledge from this database. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a security issue here, and rightly so, because personal data should be protected with great piety. I would like to say that as regards the changes made in the SIO in terms of the collection, processing and storage of the data collected, this will be done by CIE, which has ISO 27001 quality certificate. This is an ISO certificate for personal data. This company also cooperates with ABW, so I think that from the safety side we are quite sure that it will be done properly and will be properly protected. Of course, access to the database is also changing, because, as you have also raised here, there will be thousands of small databases there, only one central one. On the other hand, there will be positions that can be used - many of them - in individual institutions. So that it is certainly a great ease, but there is also a need to refer and issue permissions to use the database and the possibility of working in the database not as much as until today, that you had to perform to organs because it took time. Now you can do it electronically. Whoever has an electronic signature will be able to file such a request. You can say that he will be able to access the database from the moment he gets it. As far as the financial resources are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that this base has cost certain funds is a fact. However, the changes that we are making at the moment do not entail any changes, because this is indeed a change only in the structure. In fact, it is more tidy, so it does not create new parts of the program, etc. So that there is no fear that the money that has already been spent on building this base will be wrongly spent, because from what has already been built, we will simply continue to use it. It's all about moving towards improvement, overcoming, because really, it was possible to work on one computer in one entity or school, it was called. Narrow throat. That's what unlocking and unlocking this narrow throat is all about. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the information we collect is concerned, it might seem that there is a lot of data. Indeed, this is a large base, which primarily serves the Minister of Education to be able to assess what is happening in the system in which this system is developing. Even here, one of your messengers mentioned the number of books. It is also important how libraries are developing, how the budget should be designed, how money should be spent for the purchase of new items. So it seems that these items that are collected somewhere look like they're littering. No, it's not. I think that all these data that are collected, which are related to this system, are used: data concerning teachers, students, classrooms, actually the whole section of structural data, which must be thanks to which the Minister of Education can actually take action on the directions of education development in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u449	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 20 April this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one is reporting, so I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Please, you have the floor of Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u450	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In my parliamentary statement, I would like to report to ladies and gentlemen in just a few sentences on the solemn events related to the unveiling of two obelisks on the 77th anniversary of the Katyn crime and the 7th anniversary of the Smoleńsk catastrophe, which took place in the charmingly situated Podgóra village of Roczyny in my family's Andrychów commune in the Wadowice district. As I mentioned, in the village of Roczyn on Palm Sunday on 9 April this year. On the eve of the 7th anniversary of the Smolensk tragedy, two obelisks were unveiled. One dedicated memory of soldiers cursed fighting for their independent homeland in 1944 and the other memory of Polish officers murdered in Katyn in 1940 and the Polish delegation and victims of the catastrophe of the government aircraft TU-154M near Smolensk in 2010 from the dead. President Lechem Kaczyński in charge. The monuments of dark granite placed on bright, also granite pedestals, on two sides of a several-metre wooden cross, are located on a church square on the south side of the temple. The celebration of the consecration and unveiling of the obelisks took place after the Holy Mass at hours. 11 and gathered many distinguished guests, among whom were parliamentarians, local government officials, representatives of combatants and people repressed in the period of the Polish People's Republic, local troops of territorial defence, scouts, residents of Roczyn and local residents. The obelisk was unveiled, among others. Susanna Kurtyka and Romuald Szeremietev. During the ceremony, the commemorative letters from the Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the President of PiS Mr Jarosław Kaczyński were also read and numerous occasional speeches were made. Initiators of commemoration of the heroes of our history were, above all, the inhabitants of Roczyn and the municipality of Andrychów, who established a committee under the leadership of Mr Krzysztof Gałuszko and the parish priest of the local parish Fr. Richard Matusz. To conclude, I would like to express my full appreciation and thanks to the organisers for this noble initiative, which is and will be a worthy place. memory not only for us, but also for future generations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u451	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Czesław Sobierajski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This year is the 115th anniversary of the birth of Władysław Sebyla, a great poet murdered in Starobielsk. These April days are just passing another anniversary of the Katyn crime. So I pay a deep tribute to the memory of Polish officers - the elite of the Polish people, who by order of Stalin were murdered by the NKVD with a shot to the back of the head. They were buried in mass graves. They were condemned not only to a terrible biological death, but also to wipe them out of national consciousness. One of them was the poet Władysław Sebyła. Władysław Sebyła was born on 6 February 1902 in Kłobuck near Częstochowa. When he's only three, his mother dies. My father and his sons, Władysław and Stefan, are moving to Bedzin, where he receives a teaching position. Władysław finishes primary school in Będzin, he attends middle school in Sosnowiec, where he also gives his graduation. Participates in the Silesian Uprisings and the Polish-Bolshevik War in 1920. In 1921 he is going to Warsaw for studies. After a year of studying at the University of Warsaw, he moves to the University of Warsaw, where he finishes Polish studies. Sebyła is an artistic omnibus, talented poet, painter and musician. He wrote with great responsibility for the word. He is the author of three volumes of poetry: Rat Catcher Songs, Ethical Concerto and Thought Images. Since 1927 he has been associated with the poetry group Kwadryga, to which he belonged among others. Gałczyński, becoming her soul. Soon he became the editor-in-chief of the magazine Quadriga, raising his level significantly. He prints, reviews and writes poems, directs the poetic criticism department in Polish Radio. In 1938. The Polish Academy of Literature awarded Sebyle the highest award for her entire work - Złoty Wawrzyn. Władysław Sebyła also starts studying art history. He meets Karol Szymanowski and is a frequent guest in Atma. He even started composing himself, unfortunately, his songs were missing. Leon Pomirowski, an excellent critic and researcher of contemporary literature in the 1930s, says the work of Sebła: The poet has an intellectual attitude towards life, he can reach people. A poem free, fluent, figuratively testify to a vivid imagination. He is a follower of the most fertile in thought, aesthetically and morally threads of Polish poetry. And so about Władysław Sebyle Tadeusz Januszewski, under a significant title of "Who Burned You, My Comrades," paraphrasing one of the poet's visionary poems: Sebła focuses on poetry on worldview and moral issues, she conducts a discourse with herself, whose purpose is to ask fundamental questions more than to find answers. These seekers give direction to the eternal question about the existence of God, about the moral order of the world, about the place of man in this world, about the rank of human dignity. For his philosophy, in which metaphysics intertwined peculiarly with reality, Sebyla developed his own poetry style. His relationships with medieval imagination, poetry of romance and modernism were seen. Władysława Sebyla met the death of the worst soldier that could happen - hands tied with barbed wire and shot in the back of the head. For the writer, however, there is a crueler death - condemning him to silence and silence around him. And that's what he writes about Vladislav Sebyle. Przełat Peszkowski, prisoner of Kozielska, chaplain of the Katyn Family: For years you were unfashionable in Poland because why did you die in Kharkov? And now to read yourself properly into you, to want to understand you, you can sit down with a volume of your poems and freely keep, search out the secrets of your feelings, thoughts, ups, perspectives, sounds and images from the verses. You could look at the world, take it in your own way, and pass it on to your descendants, your readers. It feels like reading your poems. I thank you for your thoughts, for your sharpness like a surgeon's reflections that cut out something bad, low in the nation, some kind of poverty. And I thank you for that. And even though for years your voice in Poland in an inhuman way, cruel was jammed because you died badly in the Polish People's Republic, but now it reaches us with a multiple, reflective echo. Yes, you've had many gifts from God. This means that you constantly surprise us with the form, the image, the painted words, the image from which the sounds come out. I am incredibly grateful to you not only because you gave your country your life, but because you have enriched our homeland. I believe we all feel the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u453	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am concerned about the deteriorating financial support for one of the most successful wrestling clubs in Poland - the People's Sports Club. This year the club received a significantly reduced grant from the Marshal's Office of Opole Voivodeship. The city of Minds does not support its pearl enough, which is the Eagle which gives Polish sport multi-medalists and olympians. Despite these problems, players, players, coaches, trainers and activists are constantly successful at the most important sporting events. They deserve this work and the sacrifice of great praise. Today I would like to talk about a few successes only from the last three weeks, which will give an image of the incredible potential of this club. From March 30 to April 1 in Kowel in Ukraine held an international cadets tournament in free style. Jakub Makuch returned with a silver medal in weight category up to 58 kg. After very good fights, in which he triumphed three times, only in the finals lost minimally to points 4:5, being very close to victory. At the same tournament he took a very good 8th place in the category up to 54 kg in his debut in the national team of 15-year-old Mateusz Buczkowski. Both reflections compete for a seat in the frame for the European and World Championship in this age group. On 7 and 8 April in Gniew near Pelplina the Olympic Hope Tournament of the Visegrad Junior States was held until the 20s in women's wrestling, i.e. the former international championship of Poland. LKS Eagle of Thoughts during these professions was represented by Alicja Czywicz in the weight category up to 55 kg and Ewelina Cieńc in the weight category up to 67 kg. Both contestants won gold medals. In the league score LKS Eagle took 3rd place in favour of the German and Suples Kraśnik. In turn, the Polish Junior Championships under the 20s and the 2nd Cadet Polish Cup under the 17s were held on April 7, which was also the second elimination to the National Youth Olympics, the Polish Junior Championships. At this event, Paweł Malicki won gold in a weight category of up to 74 kg and he already has the title of the country's champion in terms of youth, cadets and juniors, and recently also won the Polish Cup until the age of 23. The second junior from Namysłowa, Mateusz Malicki, first in the weight category up to 96 kg, took a good 5th place, being very close to winning the bronze medal. In a group of cadets, Kacper Bielenie took off in a weight category of up to 76 kg, who won high 5th place after a good performance. It should be added that on 12 April the Polish Wrestling Union published preliminary lists of qualified for the National Youth Olympics. All three minded cadets who took part in the qualifications of free style qualified for the finals of the Polish Juniors Junior Championships until the age of 17, which will take place on May 2, in Drzonkow in Lubuskie Voivodeship. They received the promotion: Mateusz Buczkowski, 15 years old, weight category up to 54 kg, Jakub Makuch, 17 years old, weight category up to 58 kg, Kacper Bielen, 15 years old, weight category up to 76 kg. I congratulate you on your success and hope that the sports results will show those responsible for financing sport in Opole region that it is worth supporting the LKS Eagle of Minds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u455	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u456	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Individual Silesian Championship in Boxing took place at the City Centre for Sports and Recreation in Knurowo-Szczygłowice on March 9. The competition was conducted in the following categories: cadet, junior and senior. In total 121 players from 24 clubs participated in the tournament. The aim of the competition was to popularize fists in Silesia and Poland, to select the best players in particular age and weight groups, and to conduct the selection of players for Silesia staff. All fights were at a high, impressive level. Wiktor Górczewski from Concordia Knurów was considered the best cadet of the tournament, the best junior - Damian Durkacz from Spartan Knurów, and the greatest recognition among seniors went to Maximilian Gibadla from Carbo Gliwice. In addition to the ring, there were many excellent figures worthy of Polish and Silesian fists, derived from Knurów and training there, such as the Olympians Józef Gilewski, Zbigniew Kicka or Marek Koman, the bronze medalist of the European Junior Championships, as well as players, activists and trainers from Polish and Silesian staff, such as Bogdan Danielak, Łukasz Pluta, Ireneusz Przywara, Dariusz Wróbel, Sławomir Marciniak, Henryk Wilk, Ludwik Buczyński, as well as many other deserved people who cannot be mentioned due to their number. Mrs. Aniela Krasnożon, who is the wife of Jerzy Krasnowona, a longtime trainer of the Concordia Knori, also watched the fights. I would like to express my appreciation for the entire Silesian Boxing Association with President Andrzej Filipek and the Concordia Knur Sports Club Concordia together with Mr Mieczysław Gołębie for organising such a great event, which reminds us that it was Silesia who once celebrated the greatest successes in the national arena in boxing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u457	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We just had two Silesian, Upper Silesian statements. Mine will also be like this, because today we celebrate the 144th anniversary of Wojciech Korfante's birth - the Silesian politician and leader of the Silesian uprisings. In the Second Republic of Poland he was one of the leaders of Christian Democracy and one of the most important figures of the fight for the connection between Silesia and Poland. Between 1901 and 1908, he was a member of the National League in which he worked with Roman Dmowski. From the very beginning he fought for the Polish case, first as a Member of the Reichstag, where he made a request to join the Polish state of all Polish lands taken after the Prussian elections. After World War I he was part of the General Council of the People's Council in Poznań, which was the Wielkopolska government during the Wielkopolska Uprising. Since 1901, he has worked as editor-in-chief of Górnoślązaka, a newspaper in Upper Silesia. In 1902, he was sent to prison in Wronki for publishing articles to the Germans and to my brothers Upper Silesia. In the years 1903-1912 and 1918 he was a Member of the Reichstag and in the years 1903-1918 to the Prussian Landtag, where he represented the Polish Circle. In the reborn Poland in the years 1922-1930 he was a Member of the Sejm for Christian Democracy. In the face of the failure of the mission to create a government by Artur Śliwiński, Korfanta was designated by the Main Commission of the Polish Sejm as Prime Minister. However, against the protest of his opponent, the head of state of Józef Piłsudski, and the threat of a general strike by the PPS did not start the formation of the government, and the committee withdrew his nomination. From October to December 1923, he was Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Vincent Witos and his advisor. In the spring of 1935, in fear of repression, he went to emigration to Czech Prague. In April 1939, after the Third Reich's declaration of non-aggression and non-violence, he returned to Poland, where he was arrested and imprisoned in Pawiak. Despite public protests, he spent three months there. He was released on July 20 because of a severe illness. He died in Warsaw... died in Katowice, sorry, August 17th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u459	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Sanocki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 26 March in Warsaw, representatives of social justice repair committees met and set up an open civic social movement aimed at repairing justice and exerting civic pressure on power, on the Sejm, on parties, on the whole system - in order to remove the extraordinary pathology that is spreading in the Polish judiciary, in the prosecutor's office, throughout the system of justice. Citizens are harmed by unlawful judgments, by the arrogance of the courts, by long-term trials, and these injuries do not find any compensation. Therefore, there must be thorough, deep reforms, deeper and further along the lines of those proposed at the moment by Minister Ziobro or the Law and Justice, moving further towards the establishment of external control of the justice system, over the judiciary, because in the construction of the Polish courts the article was violated. 4 Constitution - the fundamental principle of national sovereignty, the sovereignty of the nation over every authority. And that is the main reason, that this control does not exist, social, external, that judges control themselves, choose themselves, judge themselves, that is the main reason for the evil and corruption of the Polish judiciary. Therefore, our goal, all these civic committees that arise, is not only to document the harm that citizens have suffered from the courts - we also promote a solution that will restore, will establish a social control in the form of the election of judges, in the form of jury cases, in the form of judges of peace at this lowest level. There should be reforms in this direction, there should be systemic changes in the Law on the System of General Courts, the Act on the National Judicial Council - and the change of the whole system. Of course, there should also be the choice of prosecutors. The profession of a judge - this is not essentially a profession, but a public authority - should be preceded by a long-term trial period. It can't be that young people without experience, without some tradition, who are not tested by anyone, but after a high school court in Cracow. This is a false, wrong path of access to the profession, which just makes us in the courtroom to an inexperienced judge who simply treats the parties, the victims, at times unable to make the right decision. The judges must meet the criterion of social support, i.e. they must be judged by society either in indirect or direct elections - that is to be considered. We propose the establishment of such voivodship judicial councils, which would come from general elections and which would only elect judges, judge them afterwards and act as judicial reviewers. So that these are proposals for the Social Recovery Movement of the Justice and State System - such a name, because we are talking about the fact that social control over judicial authority should be established, but also the work of the Sejm should be changed. We call for the wronged citizens to be heard by the justice committee. We also see the need to change citizens' access to control of Members so that the Sejm can work smoothly. It is also necessary to change the electoral ordination and introduce one-mandate electoral districts in order to restore full rights to citizens in the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u461	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u462	Mr. Marshal, thank you. I wanted to appeal to all political forces, especially PiS, to Solidarna Polska, the Minister of Justice. Let us repair justice with the participation of citizens, without political parties. We set up the National Committee for the Repair of the Justice Department. These are social organizations, they form all over Poland. Yesterday I was with their representatives at the session of the Parliament's Justice Committee. The scandal is that the Sejm Justice Commission should not deal with the affairs of the citizens. This is directly from the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. How can the Sejm be a good law if she doesn't know what's hurting the citizens, she doesn't know what's going on in the courts, she doesn't know what's going on in the D.A.'s office, she doesn't know what's going on in the police? No reform that shifts power, law enforcement agencies from one party, right now from the PO and left, to the right, i.e. to the PiS, leaving everyone else to reform this country. Unlimited power and impunity corrupts. Why don't you think about basic things, recording cases, all cases, starting with district courts? Why don't you think about the judge's research? Can you imagine that a 26-year-old judge has any life experience? Doesn't power corrupt him? If that's what you think, you're wrong. Think about it, because you're gonna lead to another scandal in justice and the D.A.'s office. I think this appeal will come to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-sejm-40-1.u463	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 21 April 2017, at the latest by 21 April 2017 at the latest. 9.30 a.m. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 57]]
