ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u1	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, before proceeding with the ninth point, I would like to inform you that today, from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m., and then from 5 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., the session will be adjourned. I would remind you that in the absence of legislative proposals to items 9 and 10 of the agenda, i.e. to special resolutions From these points we will begin today's vote on these points immediately after consideration of each of them. I inform you senators that, after considering the ninth and tenth paragraphs, we will proceed with the examination of paragraph seven: the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the creation of the Council of Assistance for Jews Welcome to the meeting. I'm very happy to welcome you. Guest list... We're about to replace them. Welcome very much... [[It's marked.]] ...Mr. Jerzy Kozielewski, a member of the family. Hello, sir. Hello, sir. [[Applause]] I welcome Bishop Rafał Markowski very warmly. Hello, Excellency. [[Applause]] Hello, curator Robert Berdychowski, parish priest of the Basilica of St. A cross in Warsaw. [[Applause]] Hello, Mr. Leon Klaudel, from the "From the Depths" Foundation, hello very much... Oh, it's you... Hello, ma'am. [[Applause]] Mrs. Lena, I'm sorry. [[Representative of the Foundation: Lena Klaudel: Yes.]] Yeah, okay... Sorry, no one's ever texted me before. I see you. Excuse me. Hello, ma'am. Hello, ma'am. Let me remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by Senator Jan Żaryn. It is included in print No 659 and the committee's report In print No 659 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And I ask you to silence your conversations. Excuse me, there's a noise in the O.R. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Among the guests there is above all the already mentioned and greeted Mr.Jerzy Kozielewski, His Excellency the Bishop, the parish priest, as well as the representative of the foundation led by Mr.Jonny Daniels. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are adopting a resolution, which is a resolution, judging by the proceedings of the Legislative Commission, by the resolution of both those senators sitting on the right and those sitting on the left side of the Senate. It is a resolution whose purpose and purpose is to honor people and events connected with a specific date, with the first half of December 1942. 75 years ago, events related to the functioning of the Polish Underground State, the Polish government on exile, all those Poles who accepted and recognized the Polish underground authorities and on exile as their own, not the occupied German authorities, which were then in the country, took place. At the same time, these events relate to Polish-Jewish relations. These three events referred to in our resolution are, above all, the formation of the Council of Aid to the Jews at the beginning of December 1942. It consisted of representatives of both the Jewish and Polish underground, but, most importantly, it was affiliated to the Government Delegation for the country, the Polish civil authorities, which were Polish authorities. The underground, of course, represented the Polish government in exile in the country. And the Polish government in exile then accepted as one of the objectives of the war helping Jews murdered by the Germans. The second event is the mission of Jan Karski, Jan Kozielewski, who as an envoy of the Polish Underground State to the Polish government in exile became an emissary carrying information, knowledge about living conditions under German occupation, conditions which defined both the existence of Poles and Jews, those two nations who were then subjected to a special test, a test of a more or less successful, an attempt by the Germans to complete liquidation. Jan Karski's mission had immediate consequences. At an incredibly fast pace, because already on December 10, 1942, this part of his report, which concerned the issue of extermination, was translated into English and as a report by the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, signed by the Minister and Ambassador of the Polish Government in the UK by Edward Raczyński, was sent to all governments, of course with a special focus on the British and American government. This showed that the Polish government in exile, as well as the structures of the Polish Underground State, accepted help from Jews as the purpose of the war waged by Poland and Poles, which had to be provided with all possible means, so both by fighting in the country, by helping civilians and through the Polish diplomacy, which introduced this into its agenda of action. The figure of Jan Karski grows here as a symbol. It was not a private person, it was an emissary of the Polish government, who thanks to the fact that he was an emissary of the government, could be in the corridors and offices of the most important figures of the world at that time. And finally, the third event, which is, you can say, the result of what I've said so far. Namely, the German occupation had its legal logic in which there was a death penalty for all those Jews who dared to leave the ghetto and flee to the so-called. the Aryan side. But they were facing the death penalty. As you know, the death penalty, or destruction, was also threatened by those remaining in the ghetto. It was similar with Poles who dared to give them any help after the so-called. Aryan side. The result of these brutal, then recorded in German law, practices and actions against Jews and Poles were events from the beginning of December 1942, which took place in Ciepielów near Radom, Leipzig. In these areas, tragic events took place in the surrounding villages, leading to the burning of Polish families by the Germans. Several dozen people were killed, including two Jewish families, as well as Polish families, which will also be mentioned in this document. The resolution I'm going to read in a second is very long. We've been thinking about this in the Legislative Committee. We asked ourselves this question: should we break the tradition of resolutions that were dominated by abstinence when it comes to words? This time we're on page four. We thought that this event, or rather this plexus of events, as you have heard, is against today's reality, in which we are very often as Poland and Poles said that Poland during World War II and Poles listening to the government of the Polish Underground State allegedly did not behave as necessary. Well, they behaved well. Therefore, you should speak about it loudly and shout, and because it is knowledge to us, as Poles, also needed, it sometimes needs to be written down on 4 pages rather than on 1 page. So we've come to the conclusion that this time this resolution will be long. I'll read it to you. Of course, everyone knows it or the vast majority of us know it, but hopefully the Senate is being heard today because its authority also has educational functions, and this resolution should become part of our collective knowledge. I would also like to stress for this very much thank you to all the senators of the Legislative Commission, both from Law and Justice and from the Civic Platform, that the work I am going to read is a common work, i.e. the amendments that were made during the work of the Legislative Commission were the result of our collective effort. And thank you very much for all these comments, so that what has been written has a final shape. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 75th anniversary of the creation of the Council of Assistance for Jews and the mission of Jan Karski. In September 1942, on the initiative of Catholic writer Zofia Kossak-Szczucka, acting in the underground Front of the Rebirth of Poland (FOP), and Wanda Krahelska-Filipowicz, a conspiracy activist from the Polish Socialist Party, was established the Temporary Committee for Helping Jews. In an underground letter, in the famous text entitled: The Protest, Zofia Kossak-Szczucka, called on Poles to help Jews condemned by the German occupation to the Holocaust: "We Catholics-Polish people take the floor. [...] In the face of the crime, it is forbidden to remain passive. Whoever is silent in the face of murder becomes an accomplice of the murderer. Whoever doesn't condemn That's what's allowed. This protest is demanded of us by God, the God who did not allow us to kill. He demands a Christian conscience. Every being called a man has the right to love his neighbor. The blood of the helpless cry out for vengeance to heaven. Who doesn't support this protest with us? He's not Catholic. We protest simultaneously as Poles. We do not believe that Poland can benefit from German atrocities. On the contrary. [...] We also know how poisonous it is to plant crime. The forced participation of the Polish nation in a bloody spectacle fulfilling in Polish lands can grow indifference to harm, sadism and above all the dangerous belief that it is lawful to murder others with impunity. Who does not understand this, who would dare to combine the proud, free future of Poland with the evil joy of his neighbor's misfortune Therefore, he is neither Catholic nor Polish! In view of the continued liquidation of the ghettos by the Germans on 5 December 1942. The Committee has been transformed into a Council of Assistance for Jews, the official body of the Polish Underground State in the structure of the Government Delegation, which included representatives of both the Jewish conspiracy and parts of the underground Polish environment, mainly socialists and folks and FOP activists. It was led by a socialist, Julian Grobelny, and his first deputies were Tadeusz Rek, a folker, and Leon Feiner of the Jewish Bund. The Council of Helping Jews The Council was affiliated to the Department of Internal Affairs of the Government Delegation for the country, being another civilian part of the Polish Underground State, and its liaison with the rest of the underground civil administration of PPP was the director of the Jewish Paper at the Department of Internal Affairs Witold Bieńkowski ps. John, Wencki, Kalski, FOP. The paper also included: Władysław Bartoszewski, deputy manager, and Bogna Domańska, Wanda Muszyńska and Pelagia Piotrkiewicz. The Council of Helping Jews was financed from the budgetary structures of the Polish government in exile and from the Jewish funds sent by Polish emissaries to the occupied country. The Council of Aid to Jews benefited de facto from all structures of both the civilian administration of the Polish Underground State, including Delegates and Civil War Management and courts, as well as military conspiracy, i.e. the Home Army, including silent and intelligence, cells responsible for preparing false documents or enforcement units carrying out death sentences for collaborating with Germany, including the issuing of Jews. The Council of Aid for Jews worked both in Warsaw and in Kraków and Lviv districts. And at headquarters, and in local structures, she was divided into papers, including children's, led by the famous Irena Sendler. The Council of Helping Jews and Poles cooperating with it, including especially the women's and men's religious assemblies and the priests of the diocesan Catholic Church, saved at least tens of thousands of Jews and Poles of Jewish origin in the years of German occupation. On 10 December 1942, on the basis of the report of the emissary of the Polish Underground State Jan Karski, a note of the Polish government was created on exile calling on the countries of the anti-Hitler coalition to save the dying Jewish nation. On the 75th anniversary of this event the Senate of Poland recalls the hero of Poland Fighting. Jan Karski, born on 24 June 1914 in Łódź, as Jan Kozielewski, devoted his entire life to Poland's free, independent, modern, tolerant and respectful of all its citizens regardless of nationality and religion. He was raised in the spirit of Catholicism as Sodalis Marianski. He was promoted to a horse artillery officer with his first place in the famous Volynian School of Podchożych. In September 1939 he defended Poland against German and Bolshevik invasions. He was captured by the Soviets. After his escape from the Soviet hands and then Germans, in December 1939 he was sworn in the structures of the Polish Underground State. In November 1942, as an emissary of the underground civil and military authorities, he reached the Polish government in exile. He submitted a report addressed by Polish diplomacy to the governments and leaders of the United Kingdom and the United States, in which he proved the uniqueness of the organization of the Polish state structure in conditions of brutal occupation. At the same time, he provided the leaders of the Allied, Great Britain and the United States with a special report, a report of an eyewitness, which is indisputable evidence of the crimes committed by the Nazis in the Jewish nation. In order to be able to pass this account, he entered the ghetto twice before leaving, and in disguise of the Ukrainian guard to the transit camp in Izbica near Krasnegostaw, where the prisoners were led to the death camps in Bełżec and Sobibor. I've seen terrible things. Train ramp. The gendarmes, the SS, the masses of Jews. I don't know. One thousand, one and a half thousand. Children, women, old people. Frightened. The image not of this world, the cattle people do not treat it that way, wrote and spoke to the then leaders of the free world. At the age of less than 29, he was already twice awarded the Order of Virtuti Militari, by order of General Stefan Grot-Rowecki, Chief Chief General Stefan Grot-Rowecki and by decree of 30 January 1943 by General Władysław Sikorski. There was no precedent in the history of this order. On 28 July 1943, at the White House, Jan Karski personally presented his report to President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, while at the same time giving an appeal to the underground Jewish community in the country aimed at the free world with the request of the Allies to actively join in defending the Jewish people against the Holocaust. Unfortunately, this call did not result in adequate and effective action by the West. In 1944, while still in the United States, Jan Karski published the book Story of a Secret State, which witnessed the Poles' contribution to the fight against the Germans, heroic efforts to avoid Soviet domination, and the tragedy of the dying Jewish nation. After the war, he settled in the United States, where he made an excellent academic career at the Jesuit Georgetown University. He wrote a fundamental monograph about the Great Powers towards Poland, from Versailles to Yalta, showing the instrumental role and function of Poland in the politics of the most powerful countries in the world. In the collective consciousness of Poland and Poles, he signed up after regaining independence in 1989, extremely strongly and expressively as a great patriot, a man of deep faith, also critical of the Polish society engaged in conflicts, and at the same time as a spokesman for the agreement between Poles and Jews. On the 50th anniversary of the end of the war in Europe, on 8 May 1995, he was awarded the Order of the White Eagle. Honored in June 1982 as the Righteous Among the Nations, in May 1998, on the 50th anniversary of the founding of the State of Israel, he was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize for his war mission to save the dying Jewish nation. In May 2012, he was honoured with the highest civilian award in the United States. The Presidential Medal of Liberty. In December 2016, Jan Karski was posthumously appointed as Brigadier General for his war heroism. On the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the Council of Assistance to Jews, the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the Polish authorities in exile, the Polish Government and the President of the Republic of Poland, all activists of the civil and military structures of the Polish Underground State, and especially those of the Council who risked their lives in the years of German occupation. In order to counteract the escape of Jews from the ghettos, Germany introduced and applied the death penalty to Poles who gave them assistance and shelter. At the same time as the Council of Jewish Aid was formed underground, on 6 December 1942 Poles from Ciepielów and surrounding areas, the Kowalski family, Obuchiewiczów, Skoczylas and Kosiorów were murdered for hiding Jews, a total of 21 Poles and 2 Jews, including 11 children. The Senate of the Republic of Poland also pays tribute to all Poles who, under the conditions of German occupation, decided to help the Jews individually under the threat of losing their lives. They did good not only for the rescued, but also for Poland and Poles. The Senate of the Republic of Poland faces the great Pole, Jan Karski, on the 75th anniversary of his war mission, one of the results of which was the publication by the Polish authorities in London of his report on the tragedy of Jews in occupied Poland and the provision of knowledge to eyewitnesses of crimes to leaders and public opinion of Allied states. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. This is the end of this resolution. [[Applause]] And I from myself, regardless of the content of this resolution, but depending on the subject, I would like to say again and very clearly it is also written here that Poland and Poles were so behaved that we were, are and will be Christians. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u3	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that Senator Jan Żaryn is also an applicant senator. Mr. Senator would like to ask you a question? There you go. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would ask the senator, your professor, to develop the sentence on page 3 of paragraph 2 of this text. I quote: "The appeal of Jan Karski" Unfortunately, it has not caused adequate and effective action by the West. Would the senator like to say anything more about this? As I understand it, Jan Karski's mission, dramatic... All the circumstances at all, the drama of how he came to the West... It seems that it was largely a voice crying out in the wilderness. I would like the senator to develop these thoughts, especially since today it seems simply impossible for the reaction to this terrible information that has officially been given to the Western leaders to be so small or actually nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u5	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this sentence, very important, as I hope, all remaining in the text of this resolution, is merely a signal behind which is the very complex historical reality of those years. First of all, it must be remembered that no normal man, including a politician, was able to imagine, in 1942, that a nation could be murdered simply because it was a nation. It must also be taken into account that although the experiences of genocide, the Genocide were already before, even if the Armenian genocide, it was such an event as Poles witnessed during the years of the German occupation, no American or British could see and understand because it was imprisoned in Western civilization, in which such a crime was not seen as possible. Of course, on the other hand, the mentality of the person gaining new information should be changed, and it should be improved in view of the fact that there has been a transfer of authentic knowledge, and this knowledge, which in the case of Jan Karski's information was toutes proportions gardenées, as of St Peter's, I have seen, and therefore should be a knowledge definitely changing the image of the world, just as Saint Peter changed the image of the world. This did not happen for various reasons. It seems to me that the first reason is above all that neither the British nor the Americans at that time, in 1942, and at the beginning of 1943, were able to develop any effective plan. Everything that came out of the Jewish environments, because Karski sent the opinion of the national Jewish communities, how to behave, i.e. bombing the way to Auschwitz-Birkenau camp, bombing German cities in retaliation It didn't fit in the head at the time. We know that it fit in the head in 1944, but it was already after the greatest wave of the Holocaust, and then it did not fit in the head. But it must also be said that John Karski's appeal also fell on a vulnerable ground, that is to say, contrary to the opinion which operates in the literature of the subject, historical research, there are very many traces concerning the attitudes of American Jews who tell us that American Jews, although they were internally tense with various political projects... Their determined representation tried to force the administration, whether American or British, to increase the intensity of helping de facto Polish structures so that they could help Jews in the country. And here is a sentence saying that the Polish state's budget was of course involved, as the first and most important element, in the work of helping Jews, the budget adopted each time by the Polish government on exile. But thanks to these Polish structures, especially the quiet ones and others who came to the country, dollars from American backgrounds were also sent. It is also not true that it was possible to talk about the lack of any response or lack of any effectiveness of the mission of Jan Karski. His mission also had a very important dimension later, in 1944, 1945, 1946, when he, while remaining in the United States, had a very positive impact on the public opinion on what we can call good name Poland. He took care of this good name of Poland then, in the years 1944, 1945, 1946, he took care very clearly. It may be that we could not draw on his achievements and continue this good mission of shaping good opinions about Poland and Poles. So that it seems to me that although Karski's mission is filled with inefficiency, it is also included in effectiveness. Both of these concepts are adequate in this case. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u7	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz and then by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u8	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm asking you about a little something. But if such a resolution is held on 24 June as the birth date of Jan Karski, and this date does not agree with the certificates from the University of Jan Kazimierz and from the school of underprivileged people, because it is stated that the birth date of Jan Karski is 24 April... Would you kindly explain, well, this... [[Divergence?]] Yeah, that discrepancy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u9	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u10	Thank you. Thank you very much for helping to edit this part of the resolution by Mr Waldemar Piasecki, who is the author of Jan Karski's latest biography. And as with the latest biography of important people, every historian makes some discoveries. This date, which is given in the resolution, is the result of the latest research on the birth date of Jan Karski. It is very possible that the next researcher will in turn verify these findings.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u12	Mr. Senator, how many Polish citizens of the Jewish nationality have survived within the pre-war borders of Poland? [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u13	Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u14	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for this question, because it is, of course, one of the fundamentals and agrees with the second question, how many Poles in turn helped the Jews. To this day historians are trying to estimate both numbers, and to this day there is no full consent. When it comes to saving Jews and Poles of Jewish origin, the data tells of the number from 30,000, 60,000 to 120,000 saved. In my opinion, the closest truth, and as a historian myself, for many years I have been dealing with this subject... 120 000 is the most likely number, if we accept as true, but also subject to a workshop discussion, information about even this single children's paper led by Irena Sendler, saying that by this paper more than 5 000 children, who were then mostly placed in women's assemblies, especially in religious gatherings, religious houses, monasteries, burrs, etc. This number is therefore uncertain and will never be certain that saving Jews in total conspiracy caused that also after the war much of the saved were already so strongly introduced into the structure of the Polish society, the Polish nation, and also the Christian nation, that many saved after the war never applied to Jewish organizational structures, because they no longer felt Jewish, only Poles, and were part of Polish families. I can tell you, on the basis of my research experience, that when I rode around Poland at various moments of my life with lectures on Poles saving Jews, it was at least twice, and in fact more times I met with the situation of testimony on the other hand, the testimony of the person who stood up or approached me at the time of the lecture and said: sir, yes, I am from the same family, the Polish family in which I have siblings, but in fact they are not my brothers, because I am the person who was introduced to this family by such and such religious gathering. I found out after 40, 50 years, and then I was a little kid, and I was a newborn. These testimonies tell us that it was a very wide-ranging aid, creating a climate of German occupation at that time. Then there were many Poles who were able to respond positively to this knocking at night. And I'll answer the second question right away. I have repeatedly witnessed as a historian, I have said, and I will say that in turn Poles who have given very diverse help At that time, the meaning of the word "help" is not the same as today's understanding of the word, because then there were completely different conditions. In order to be clear, there were probably about a million Poles, so many Poles who lived on Polish lands at the time. If that were true, that would mean we did a really good job. We did well if such a large part of the Polish people recognized the decisions of their authorities, i.e. the Polish government on exile and their underground authorities, as binding legally and morally, and not the occupation law, which said that the only positive attitude was the attitude of the informant. And this, of course, is the space of Polish attitudes, which were also then, from those disgraceful German occupiers to, fortunately, multiple. -, multiple -, repeatedly indicating, also in our family certificates, probably the senators sitting here can confirm that too, keeping the memory of their parents, grandparents, uncles... It's all in our memory. As we gather all of this, it will turn out that we were a heroic nation at that time and, I repeat once again, this heroism was largely the result of not only legal submission to the Polish authorities, i.e. in the country and abroad, but above all submission to conscience. That was the most important commitment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u15	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Please, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the first paragraph of this resolution, which is excellent, and a reminder of a fragment of the famous text by Zofia Kossak-Szczucka. Please tell us whether this text would be worthwhile, also profetic in its message, simply extraordinary, showing not only a deeply Christian testimony, but also such a general humanistic remarkable sensibility to the great harm, to the injustice that is being done, also taking into account the deeper context of this horrible thing that was, this text or such texts. Perhaps they have been published in the form of source materials, reminding today's generations. I ask because it contradicts certain stereotypes that appear in public space.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u17	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Good. That's an answer, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u18	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, the full text of this protest is known to historians. It has been published many times in its entirety, also commented on. This text was created in full under the conditions of World War II, under conditions in which Polish-Jewish relations were burdened with the past of both Poles and Jews, with the past not only positive but also negative. This text is therefore very important. It is also very smart, but printed in full requires a comment. Whenever it appears, it comes along with a historical commentary, so that we can discover the deep sense of the protest concerning the formation of an attitude in Poles, in which two key words used by Zofia Kossak-Szczucka will be defined in a new way. It is the sense of her protest! definition in the conditions of World War II, which means the word "Polak" and "Catolic." This was insanely important, as her close associate, whose name, of course, falls in our resolution, or Władysław Bartoszewski, has said many times. He repeatedly, bearing witness to the greatness of Zofia Kossak-Szczucka, reminded that the positive liberation of Polish emotions for Jews was connected with the fact that it was necessary to convince Poles, Catholics who before the war Now I do not know whether it is right or wrong, although I think it is very often right that they have anti-Jewish attitudes to be clear. They were right to present anti-Jewish attitudes. [[Too far...]] The idea was for Poles to rewrite the subject. And that is the content of the protest, ladies and gentlemen. He is addressed not to the philosemites, but to such Poles as they were then. At that time it was about convincing Poles to redefine the words "Catholic" and "Polish" because in these terms there is no room for permission to commit a crime and to harm a neighbor. And that's the size of this protest. However, it must be seen and understood in the context of the present reality, not the reality of 2017.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich and Marshal Borusewicz. Are you asking questions, Mr. Marshal, or are you asking questions? [[For questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u20	One last question. Answer me. Almost all organizations are part of... It's in the resolution. But it wasn't the nationals and the endition. Can you explain why? Now there's such a strange situation in our country that nationals are trying to be very important. Could you explain why these organizations didn't go in there? [[Yes. Thank you so much for that question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u21	Wait a minute, Professor. [[I'm sorry.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Ask me a question, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u22	Mr. Senator, I've heard a rumble in what you said... [[Jesus!]] [[Till the door squeaked.]] [[Question, Mr. Marshal.]] I heard that anti-Jewish ideology that was before the war... [[I didn't say anything about ideology. I said attitude.]] About anti-Jewish attitudes that were justified and right. [[Professor, don't comment on that.]] You've also been investigating Silky's case. So I'm going to ask you, what happened there? [[Don't tell me.]] [[It's not about that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u23	Are there any more questions for the professor? There isn't. Professor, please be brief.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u24	Thank you. I'll try briefly. This is not a place for a historical lecture, therefore, as far as the second question of Marshal Borusewicz is concerned, I can at best appeal to the very rich literature of the subject. Polish-Jewish relations in the Second Republic are really being studied multilaterally, they are being studied from different sides. I can only say in general that the painting is not black and white, that is, it is not so that the rations are only on one side and on the other side there are no rations. Polish-Jewish relations were complicated. On the one hand, the period of the Second Republic was the time when the Jewish nation ascended to the heights of creation of the modern nation of that time. And it was in the conditions of the Republic of Poland that the Polish Jewish nation had the chance to speed up this process of nationalization and it was very important On the other hand, it was undoubtedly also a place in the socio-national space in Poland, which did not always produce only positive relations. And that's where I'd end up, because, as I say, this is not the place for a historical lecture. To answer the senator, I'll say yes. Indeed, the nationals as an underground structure... that is to say, the National Party of the Quadrant considered, similarly as Zofia Kossak-Szczucka, to be clear, that the committee of the Żegoty, i.e. this original structure, should not be of an intra-state character, i.e. it should not be associated with the structures of the Polish Underground State, but have a kind of social space, i.e. a civic space. And this was due to the fact that the nationals considered that there was no coherence between Polish and Jewish interests in the political sense, and they feared that Jewish interests would be introduced too deeply into the Polish state. Were they right or were they wrong? Again, this isn't the place, and this isn't the moment to answer that. Whether they entered or did not enter structurally, many nationalists from both the National Party and the National and Radical Camp individually helped the Jews. Very many of the Righteous among the Nations, among others. Edward Kemnitz with Mirosław... with the whole family of Ostromęcki and Deskur, and many others... I could talk about it for a very long time, because I wrote a lot about it as a historian. So many nationals helped the Jews. If I may say immodestly: also in the circle of my family, my loved ones, there were people who had national views before the war... During the war, my older siblings were raised in court by a Jewish woman who was hidden in the property of my parents. Practically all the land estates, as far as I know, regardless of the origin of the ideal owners, whether they were more connected to the national camp or the sanation camp... Well, it's just that the Jews were helped, because that's the nature of things when it comes to the earthly upbringing. [[Thank you...]] This was also the case with intelligent structures, Polish intelligent families, from left to right, where in fact this thought concerning the honor of a Pole ordered to help. That was the educational path at the time. And, as it turned out, it also involved many, many peasant, working families. This emanation of upbringing of the Second Republic was very deep, reaching deep into the Polish nation - I don't care what you think.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u25	Thank you very much. Formal conclusion... [[I still have a question.]] [[About the formal...]] [[Formal conclusion...]] But first, it's a formal conclusion, okay? Because Mr. Antoni Szymanski filed a motion. Mr. Senator, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're making a resolution today, which actually... When the senator read this resolution, I had the impression that we should get up and take it in the stand... [[Applause]] [[Because of the acclamation.]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...a resolution that is of extraordinary importance that was discussed at the committee meeting, where there is room for discussion. [[Formal motion, please...]] Mrs. Marshal, I would like to ask the senators to close the debate, and to make this resolution that does not wake up, I am convinced of it. Our doubts and that we do not water down this resolution with our questions. Please proceed to the vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u27	High Izbo, because there's been a formal request for shortening... [[But I'd like to ask.]] [[This isn't the time to discuss... there's a formal conclusion...]] ...ask questions and move on to discussion... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You guys aren't doing well, but...]] High Izbo, if I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House is in favour of this formal proposal. [[There are no voices of objection.]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't make any sense.]] There are no voices of objection. Then I'll open the discussion. And I would like the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Excellency Bishop! Great Dear Guests! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm gonna keep it short, 'cause I'd like to... [[Quiet, High Izbo!]] ...to pay attention to one thing and, above all, to the initiators of this resolution, which is very important, very necessary. I agree with Senator Szymanski that there is nothing to discuss about the content itself, because it is a text developed, coherent and revealing the essence of the problem. [[Voice from the room: Why are we discussing this?]] However, I would like to draw attention to two aspects, which could not necessarily be included in the resolution, because then it would simply become a very long text. First of all, I would like to briefly talk about the meeting of Jan Karski's courier with President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, which took place on 28 July 1943. As Senator Żaryn mentioned, at the time Jan Karski presented opportunities to resolve this tragic situation, but it did not find any recognition in the eyes of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. And in the Wyborcza Gazet in 2010 a text about Jan Karski was published, in which it was written what this conversation was like. During this meeting President Roosevelt interrupted the Polish emissary's report on Jews and said I quote, according to this text, from the Gazeta Wyborcza, we will deal with the Germans after the war. Mr Karski, maybe you can talk me out of a mistake, but isn't Poland an agricultural country? Don't you need horses to grow your land? I don't think I'm gonna comment on that. And the second thing that's not going on in this resolution, and it can't be, because by all means... I would like to say two words about the so-called. Raczyński's note, which was based on materials collected by Jan Karski and transported by him to London. Edward Raczyński in December 1942 And this note was created exactly on December 10, 1942, and was the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the London Government. And the note in which the scope of the Holocaust was presented and the source information to the effect of this text was sent to all signatories of the United Nations Declaration. In response to the note of the Polish Government on 17 December 1942, the Allied States simultaneously announced in London, Washington and Moscow the following joint declaration: The attention of the governments of Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Greece, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, the United States of North America, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, Yugoslavia and the French National Committee has received numerous reports from Europe that the German authorities, failing to satisfy themselves with the refusal of Jewish people in all areas to which their barbaric law, the most fundamental human rights, has been extended, have now begun to implement Hitler's repeatedly announced extermination of the Jewish nation in Europe. I would like to draw attention to this note, because this shows the consequence of the Polish authorities, the consequence of the structures of the underground state, the consequence of a huge number of Poles, which appeared in the way in which in the tragic conditions of German occupation, in war conditions it appeared to inform the free world about the cruelty of the Holocaust, which was carried out, among others. in the territory of the Republic of Poland by German criminals. And that is why I would like to thank Professor Jan Żaryn once again, Senator Jan Żaryn, in his research work, and in his publications, in his social activities, as an initiator of the various social bodies that deal with this issue, but also in the Senate, working on the text of this resolution, he calls for the truth about these very painful and tragic events in the past. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! This resolution is worthy of support. This resolution should be adopted unanimously by our House. In this resolution we speak not only of people whose names are known and recognizable in Poland and the West, but also of those nameless, whose names are not mentioned. Everywhere in the world, at least among the elites, who was Jan Karski and what was his work. It is known who Jan Nowak-Jezioranski was, what his merits were for both Poland's independence and for Polish-Jewish reconciliation. It is known who Władysław Bartoszewski and Irena Sendlerov were, and it is known what the merits were. But what is important in this resolution is this broader dimension, this social dimension, this dimension very often anonymous. These are people like 6,000 people identified, whose names have not yet been introduced, and I believe that the Polish government should seek this out. The Book of the Righteous Among the Nations, whose so-called records, i.e. descriptions of life and martyrdom, were prepared jointly by the Institute of Strategic Studies, IPN and state archives, on the basis of research also in foreign archives, among others. for the first time in the archives of the Wehrmacht, which for this purpose were opened by the German side, in the Belarusian archives, in the Ukrainian archives. That's 6,000 names identified, described according to the Yad Vashem method. In future actions it would also be necessary to include those of the living Polish Jews who moved their Polishness abroad and boast about it and are proud of it. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, It's not just props talking about it, it's not just Polish painting, it's not just Polish souvenirs. She thinks that living without Polishness cannot, that living without Poland is difficult for her. It would also be worth talking about these matters in the future. I'm a little ahead of schedule, but I think the past should affect our actions in the future. And they should be common, just like this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u31	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Bear, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! I think that as a Pole and as a Silesian I could not at this moment, at the time of this resolution, not present. And I could not ignore the name of the great Pole and Silesian, Henryk Sławik, who in times of war saved the lives of not only Polish but also Jewish children. According to what was proved at Yad Vashem Institute, he saved over 5,000 Jewish children. He is the Righteous Among the Nations, he is great, but one can say that still forgotten, Pole. I let myself talk about him here... The memory of him was restored by a man who, as a child, was saved by him, namely Mr Zimmermann, a Jew who came from Israel at the end of the nineties in search of the family of Henry Slavik. And he also discovered for us, for Poles, this outstanding figure. I think we should mention such people here. I think his heroism is equal to Jan Karski's heroism, all the more so because he gave his life for his work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u33	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Antoni Szymański made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the creation of the Council of Assistance for Jews and the mission of Jan Karski. Who among you is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted... [[Applause]] 76 senators voted, 76 were in favour, no one voted against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the Council of Assistance for Jews Żegota and the mission of Jan Karski. I ask Mr. Jerzy Kozielewski to approach the president's table. I'd like to give you a resolution. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 95th anniversary of the first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland Reborn Poland. I would remind you that the draft resolution was tabled by a group of senators and is included in print No. 658 and the report of the committee in print No. 658 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution. Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! This time a resolution, the content of which is to some extent the glory of the Senate, but also a commitment to senators, this time something pro domo sua. Occasion is as follows. On 28 November 1922, the Senate held its first meeting in reborn Poland, the Senate as the Higher House, which was included in the March Constitution, a very democratic, modern constitution, one of the best in the legal sense at the time In this first constitution of reborn Poland there was a place for the Higher House, the Senate, which was treated by Polish constitutionists as one of the most important symbols of continuity of power. The Republican state, which was reborn Poland in 1918 and 1939, took over the heritage of the First Republic, in which the Senate grew up from the Royal Council as an organ which was created by the monarchy represented by the Piast dynasty. This continuity of the Senate Chamber was of great value in reborn Poland, which was created after 123 years of captivity. Our resolution adopted at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, adopted unanimously by the Senators of Law and Justice and the Senators of the Civic Platform, undoubtedly expresses not only homage in its text, but also what can be called a commitment. If you will allow me to read the draft of this resolution on the 95th anniversary of the first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland Reborn Poland. As a result of the adoption of the March Constitution and subsequent election on 28 November 1922, the first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland Reborn took place. The Senate was set up in five adjective elections between 1922 and 1935. The number of senators corresponding to 1/4 Members was selected from each voivodship. A total of 111 senators were therefore selected. 93 of them were elected in the electoral districts and 18 were elected from the state list. Active electoral rights to the Senate were granted to citizens who were over 30 years of age and passive to those who were over 40 years of age. In turn, according to the April Constitution of 1935, the number of senators was limited to 96 people; 1/3 came from the nomination of the President of the Republic of Poland, and 2/3 from the elections limited in practice to the elite of the governing camp. Introducing the Senate into the system of the Reborn Poland, the parliamentarians of the Legislative Sejm referred to the political achievements of the I Republic of Poland, i.e. the history of the Royal Council and the aristocratic Senate, as well as to the contemporary challenge, which was universal agreement to strengthen the democratic order of the system. The first marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland was a well-deserved national activist from Wielkopolska and Marshal of the Legal Sejm adw. Wojciech Trempyński. Apart from him, the prominent senators of the 1922-1939 were among others. Archbishop Adam S. Sapieha, Krakow Metropolitan, Archbishop Józef Teodorowicz, Metropolitan of Lviv Armenian rite, or nationalists Stanisław Głabiński, lawyer and co-creator of the March Constitution, Prof. Stanisław Kasznica, rector of the Poznań University, Władysław Grabski, twice Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland, and Socialists Bolesław Limanowski, nestor of Polish independence socialism and Marshal of the Senior from 1922, Andrzej Strug (Wł. Tadeusz Galecki), a well-known novelist, and Dorota Kłuszynska, president of the Children's Friends' Society. As well as in the history of the Senate, the people, including the co-founder of the folk movement in Galicia Bolesław Wysłouch, and the senators of the Partyless Block of Cooperation with the Government Władysław Raczkiewicz, later President of the Republic of Poland in exile. More than 450 parliamentarians passed through the benches of the Second Republic Senate, of which 155 were killed, murdered or died of exhaustion in the years of the German and Soviet occupation. The war and the new Soviet domination over Poland ended the life of the Senate. This was due to the June referendum of 1946, whose results were falsified by Communists, thus testing the West's strength for the ongoing process of subjecting the nation to anti-Polish doctrine and practice of government. The Polish People's Party Stanisława Mikołajczyk, who called for a negative answer to the first referenda question concerning the abolition of the Senate in the new system order, called for the Polish People's Party Stanisław Mikołajczyk, which, as a popular party In the Second Republic of Poland, this House has been challenged. In this way, the Communists who advocated in their propaganda were opposed to providing answers to referenda questions three times. It was also considered that the Senate of the Republic of Poland symbolizes the sovereignty and continuity of the Polish state. The absence of the Senate in the political order of the People's Poland thus emphasized the real character of the then power, dependent on Moscow. No wonder, therefore, that in the Third Republic the Senate was introduced into the state system already in the first contractual elections of 4 June 1989. In his actually democratic elections, only this chamber won the Solidarity Camp, winning 99 seats out of 100. At present, the Senate, as the body of the legislative authority, can adopt legislative proposals for the laws adopted by the Sejm, has the right of legislative initiative and adopts special resolutions aimed in particular at creating the state's historical policy. Moreover, the Senate's important task is to take care of Polonia and Poles abroad, especially in the East. Today we want to call the Senate of the Republic of Poland the Chamber of reflection, which is a challenge for both us and our successors. On the 95th anniversary of the establishment of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, we face the achievements of our predecessors, especially co-founders of the Second Republic, and all those senators who gave their lives during the years of war and occupation and were persecuted in the People's Poland. We specially commemorate the late senators of the Third Republic who sat next to us in the benches of the Upper House. Hello their memory! The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. That's what the resolution says. If you don't mind, I'll add two notes. The first one I allow myself to do, although it may not sound modest... But I think on this occasion, on any other occasion, I can tell you that. This plaque, reminding us of 155 Polish patriots, Senators of the Second Republic who died, died, died during the German and Soviet occupation, should accompany us in making political decisions for Poland's independence. It's a challenge we have all the time when we look at those names. Among these names is also a person who obliges me, as Jan Zarin, clearly straight and unambiguously My grandmother's brother Tadeusz Karszo-Siedlewski, who died in September 1939 in Warsaw, defending the city as a civilian against German invaders. Second point, which... I think it's worth emphasis. We, as Senators of the Republic of Poland, should also be aware that today's actions clearly want, we intend to join our independence traditions, especially in terms of values that are close to us, i.e. the freedom of the beginning of history, the Royal Council, and later to the Second Republic, and then the substitutes of representation that existed in exile in the form of the National Council or the Interim Council of National Unity, the Independent Parliament outside the borders of the country. Therefore, it seems to me that this resolution does not fit into any of our pride, but into a humble vision of our commitment to present and future generations. And I would ask that she be accepted and adopted as such. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u35	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Jan Zarin to represent them. [[There are no questions.]] Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[No.]] No. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr.John Maria Jackowski. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Applause]] [[Coughlings, talk to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u36	Thank you for this applause of the High House. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Take Mr Jackowski's pill.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[It's loaded?]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Get to the point.]] If we are talking about the Senate in the Polish system, then we are talking about one of the oldest parliamentarians in the world. In this context, I would like to say a few words about the origins of the Senate, because there is often something in the current discussions that maybe the Senate is an unnecessary chamber, a chamber that extends the legislative process, that it is such an archaic, past-use thing. Well, another matter is the Senate's constitutional location. I would not like to start a discussion here, but with small changes in the Constitution, this House could be given a much greater rank than the one it has in the current system. However, if we are talking about our tradition, our heritage, respect for an institution that, as Senator Żaryn mentioned, was founded from the Royal Council. As a matter of fact, since 1493, when a separate Chamber of Members from the Royal Council began to be composed of representatives of the earthly Seyms who were elected We can already talk about the institutionalized form of the Senate. The Senate in the First Republic consisted of about 140 senators. They were in it under the Royal nomination of senior officials, so-called. Visitives, that is, husbands who took on important functions. And what were the functions? They were chestelans, they were voivods, ministers and bishops of the Roman Catholic Church. That is what I stress, because there have been some changes as a result of subsequent discussions. After the Lublin Union in 1569, the Senate was enlarged by Lithuanian rulers, because a single state, a state of both nations, was established, a state consisting of two equal entities, namely the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. What often puzzles historians is, for example. why Russian elites were not included in the Senate, apart from those who performed civilian functions, were chestellans, voivodeships. Many Orthodox representatives sat in the 17th century or earlier in the Polish Senate, but the hierarchy could not sit in it. And here it is worth mentioning the Hadziak Union of 1658, because it was an attempt to create a state which would be a federal state, consisting of 3 entities, i.e.: the Crown of Poland, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the Duchy of Russia, as it was then defined, i.e. areas which are today a large part of western Ukraine. High Izbo, the Senate outside the legislative functions it has, is one of the attributes of independence of the Polish state. The fact that the awareness was strong is a matter of the Round Table. And this has to be given back, because we already had a discussion here about the Round Table on the occasion of the laws on the KRS, for example yesterday and the day before yesterday. It was precisely a sign of asking for independence and sovereignty during these changes in 1989. And from this point of view, the restoration of the Senate institutions was one of the fundamental attributes of building an independent Polish state, because the Senate institution is so firmly rooted. For most of the history, counting from the time of the Living, or for more than half of the history of the Senate was an institution that existed in the political and legal order of the Polish state. And in this context, we need to look at this institution today. High Izbo, it is also worth recalling the history of Polish parliamentarianism, because we now hear very often speeches about democracy, parliamentarianism, elections, representative system and everything that is an attribute of today's democracy, and it is often noted that our parliamentarianism is immature, short that we do not have established democracy. These are thesis, I'd say, publicist and false. Yes, we had periods of communism, World War II, partitions. These were periods when the natural processes of the creation of a modern democratic state were distorted due to external factors. The idea that Polish parliamentarianism is immature and short-lived is often based on ignorance and poor knowledge of history. Polish parliamentarianism may not be as old as British parliamentarianism, which historically is considered to be one of the oldest, but we are one of several European countries, where the traditions of parliamentarianism are firmly rooted. And we can be proud of that. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u37	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We can proceed with the vote. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 95th anniversary of the first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland Reborn Poland. Who among you is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 74 senators voted in favour, 74 in favour, no one opposed or abstained. [[Voting No 9]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 95th anniversary of the first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland Reborn Poland. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. The text of the Act is contained in print No 669 and the report of the Commission In print No 669 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee. [[Mrs. Marshal! Tall...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Whoever needs to leave, please, so that the Senator rapporteur can... [[Don't ask a lot of questions, 'cause it's Friday.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: Good idea.]] No, you can ask questions, Mr. Senator. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee to the Act adopted by the Sejm on 24 November 2017 amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. The Members' submission brings to this... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please! Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. If anyone needs to talk, I'm asking you to leave the room.]] In accordance with the parliamentary submission, there is an extension of the statutory conditions which allow the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the Sejm and the National Assembly to lay down the rules on the reduction of the salary of Members and Senators and the rules on the reduction and loss of the right to the parliamentary diet of Members and Senators. This extension concerns the possibility of reducing salary and diet in the case of parliamentarians violating their behaviour in the Chamber of Sejm, Senate or National Assembly. This condition complements the existing conditions, including the behaviour of parliamentarians preventing, by gross violation of the relevant regulations, the work of the Sejm, the Senate or the National Assembly, as well as their bodies, and not participating without justification in the meetings of the Sejm, the Senate or the National Assembly, as well as their bodies. As the submission introduces the definition of the National Assembly Rules, it will require amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which delete the rules on the convening and functioning of senators within the National Assembly. It is simply for the National Assembly that the individual rules for this forum will be defined. Amendments to the Act were made at the 52nd meeting of the Sejm. The Rules of Procedure request the High House to adopt the amendment of the said law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u39	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I see there's a lot of people willing. You will be the first to speak with Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, then Senator Alexander Pociej, Mr Mieczysław Augustyn and Mr Piotr Florek. [[And Senator Zdrojewska.]] And so is Senator Zdrojewska. Please, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u40	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. During the committee's meeting during the discussion, didn't there appear to be an important topic, in my opinion, from the point of view of... Well, we just passed a resolution on the Senate. As far as I'm concerned, there is no senatorial interpellation institution. The declaration has no rank, I'd say, statutory. On the occasion of the amendment of the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, would it not be worthwhile on the basis of symmetry, since the institution of interpellation as a form of action, the implementation of the mandate is described in the case of Members, whether to introduce the inclusion of this institution in the Act also with regard to senators? I am talking about this on the occasion of the work that is taking place in the Sejm on the direction of the elections to local governments, because there is a proposal to write that the Councilman's interpelation will also have statutory power, and so far it has not been described in the local law as the statutory authority of the councillors who hold the councillor's mandate. And then wouldn't it be worth thinking about the senators, about us, so that we can also have a full, on the basis of the bill, the possibility of interpellation rather than a statement? It, as I say, is a somewhat customary form, a little derived only from the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which is not based on the Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u41	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u42	Thank you very much. Senator, the points you raised were not discussed during the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. At the same time, they go beyond the intentions of the Members submitting the proposed changes. But I share your view. Perhaps this subject needs to be addressed and the initiative of the changes that you wanted to discuss in your question should be put forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u43	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u44	Mr. Senator, as we are all here, we can agree that the Senate's deliberations, the temperature and the culture of the dispute are completely different in the Senate and completely different in the Seym. Did you ever wonder why automatically, if this is an initiative of a group of Members who want to do so, rather than resolve their relationship with each other, with a stick rather than a carrot... Why does it have to be like automatically stretching on the upper chamber? I don't know if there's anyone in the room who thinks we need to be subject to some kind of restriction. If such a problem never existed in this House?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u46	Dear Senator, there is no specific catalogue of behavior that violates the seriousness of the Senate or the Sejm, and this still remains for the interpretation of the Marshal. I trust that the Senate Marshals share your view that there is a completely different temperature in the Senate Chamber that we operate differently, so the possible interpretation of the behaviour that violates the Senate's seriousness will be slightly different from the interpretation that it will have to take in its work by the Marshal of the Sejm or the Marshal who conducts the meeting of the National Assembly. [[I'm sorry. I'm just gonna ask.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u47	Ask around.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u48	Thank you for that explanation. I agree with him and accept them, but my question was a little different. Did she ever talk about it? When you read this project... Can we turn this thing off with regard to the Senate? Is that a possibility? Can this solution remain only for Members, since it is an initiative of Members? If that's what they want, let them regulate their relationship in this way. I don't understand why... Was there a discussion that the senators should not use this initiative, and if they wish to take this initiative, should they themselves develop such an initiative with regard to the Senate? Thank you. [[May I, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u49	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u50	Senator, the regulation concerns the issue of pay and diet, and these issues are common to Members and Senators. I would like to stress that we will transfer this spirit of change to our Rules of Procedure, our Senate Rules of Procedure. Certainly, the attitude of the leading marshals, to which interpretation of both the rules and non-regulatory behaviours, including those which would violate the seriousness of Senate meetings, is of paramount importance. I trust that in our case the Marshals' reactions will be very different from those of the Marshals holding the Sejm's meetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u52	Senator, the introduction of these rules is, in my opinion, an opening of the way for the senators to put economic pressure on the minority senators. I base this argument on the fact that the law does not define the concept of "Senate's seriousness." The senator has already said it's not defined. I would therefore like to ask whether you have raised this question and whether there have been attempts to define this term. I'm asking you this because we're different in our grades, which violates the Senate's seriousness. In my opinion, if someone here is lyingly arguing, I talked about it, even addressing ministers. This violates the seriousness of the Senate. If someone votes in favour of openly unconstitutional rules, it violates the importance of the Senate. But that's my conviction. Please tell me if you have tried to clarify this term.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u53	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u54	Dear Senator, it is not in the same way a specific catalogue of these behaviors that prevent the work of the Sejm or the Senate. There is also a provision on gross infringement of these provisions, so it is still a matter of judgment. During the meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, these issues, which you requested to mention to the senator, were not addressed. They were discussed in committee at first reading of proposals for amendments to the Rules of Procedure. We have yet to have further discussions on this subject. Certainly, the senators who raised these issues during this first reading of the Senate Rules of Procedure will also try to talk about these premises and about this catalogue of behavior in the further part of the work on our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u56	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, I share Senator Augustine's voice that this is a desire to close the mouth of the opposition. This idea didn't come from us, from the Senate, because we didn't deal with situations like this, it came from the Sejm. There have already been cases of detention of Members of the opposition, for various reasons. I think there's some sort of sanction. And I'm reading here about a gross violation of the regulations of the regulations. Well, it's often written in different rules, but when it comes to violating your seriousness in the sitting room, I don't understand what's going on at all. Would you mind telling me what this seriousness is in the sitting room? If, for example, A esteemed colleague will either make a joke or if I take a white rose, it will be a violation of seriousness, won't it? And the second point I'd like to ask you. Did you ever wonder at the committee meeting that maybe this kind of behavior should not only be evaluated by a marshal... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: That's what I was going to say.]] ...just rather refer it to the Rules of Procedure... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damian: Yes, sir.]] ...so that there's no suspicion that this is a strict political action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u57	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u58	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, under no circumstances would I allow myself as a private senator to assess the behaviour of colleagues in terms of whether these behaviours qualify for a reduction in salary or a reduction in diet. I'm sure of it. At least that's my hunch. Gradation is possible if such cases occur, the gradation of how the conductor marshal could decide to use this point. Nor do I remember the situation, either from the previous term of office or from the fact that one of the marshals leading the mission would use this prerogative to punish the senator by reducing his salary or taking his diet for conduct that would prevent him from holding the Senate's deliberations. Mrs Senator, during the committee's deliberations, what you mentioned was not discussed, but it will certainly be discussed when we are considering changes in our rules. At first reading, there were already senators' votes so that the senator, who was affected by the decision to reduce his salary or diet, could appeal to the Bureau, including the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u59	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I don't remember and the government crews have changed, the opposition has changed. • that someone should so far propose such a solution, which creates a wide possibility of interpretation, assessment, as you mentioned. Therefore, it is a very dangerous bill and I think it is directed mainly against the opposition. The idea is to discipline the Members of the opposition so that there are penalties, which this time relate to diets, i.e. they are extended. And I'm just wondering right now how it's going to be adopted, how this bill is going to be implemented. How can you interpret this? For example, one of the Members who said that we were scumbags used the words "treasonous murders." Will it be subject to this bill or not? Is this person going to be punished or not? So here's a broad interpretation... [[It's not just...]] Yes. And all the more so, I do not agree with Members imposing these proposals on the Senate as well. Why is it that the MPs... We are the ones who are in charge here to decide on matters relating to the Senate, not Members. So I have a question: was there a discussion on how this is going to be interpreted, and would the example I gave also fall under this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u61	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u62	Thank you. Dear Senator, most of the issues you raised here were about the behaviour of the Sejm. As you mentioned here, Senator Pociej, the temperature of the dispute and the behaviour of the senators is quite different and I believe that they will be so throughout the entire term of office. But that is the case, that the general issues relating to the functioning and status of Members and Senators are governed by the law, and that is why we must refer to those proposals which have been addressed to the High House. The other issues that you spoke about were already discussed, as I said, at the first reading of the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Because it is our rules of procedure that formulates in detail issues related to the functioning of the High House, and also gives the marshal the opportunity to respond in an appropriate manner. As I recall, so far the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators has had the opportunity to refer mainly to possible penalties related to unjustified absence at meetings. Well, that was the main reason, because it's known that there are still issues of waiver of immunity or any complaints by institutions or associations, including the waiver of immunity or the attempt to influence the Marshal's decision to punish a senator with the rule of law. But so far, we have not dealt with situations in which it would be necessary to reduce the diet or allowance due to the conditions of the article. 25 or 42 laws on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u63	Thank you. And Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. [[I already asked.]] Oh, you already asked the senator. Senator Robert Dowhan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, you yourself admitted that it is difficult to compare the Sejm and the Senate. I would like to know what group of Members tabled this amendment to the bill. Will these Members be present so that questions can be asked? Secondly, don't you think it's time to separate the laws so that one of them concerns the Sejm? Then let the Sejm take care of itself and the other Senate? Because combining this, as we emphasize in many cases, totally misses... For these two questions, I'd like to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u65	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I am at all opposed to too hasty changes in the sphere of affairs, let's call it freedom and parliamentary and senatorial immunity. 'Cause once you're in charge, once you're in opposition. But here I have another kind of problem, namely we will not be able to change our regulations without violating certain authorisations or some framework set out in the Act. Because in the bill there is no possibility of varying punishment, or actually just punishment of senators, as is the case in our case, professional and non-professional. And that means that a professional senator can theoretically be taken more, and a non-professional one much less, because only a diet. And that also means that a non-professional senator has a greater opportunity, let's call it, madness or violation of the rules without having any consequences. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] And that's not fair. And now the question... It's not in the bill at all, and since it's not in the bill, it won't be in the regulations either. What do you say? Should a revision of the law be proposed in this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u67	Thank you. I'll ask Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka for a question, and then I'll ask the Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u68	Thank you very much. I support the question asked first by Senator Zdrojewska, and I express the same view. But I'd also like to ask if... Because here in the information of the Legislative Office we have such an enigmatic opinion:.The Law does not raise any legislative objections. And that's kind of a dot about what the legislators said. But do you, because you've been considering a group of senators that I personally, without even knowing their names, have absolutely no confidence in, also in their legal powers... 'Cause I don't know if they were lawyers or if they were some militiamen who said, "We're gonna let those who talk too much and so on." I would like to ask whether, as a committee, you have appointed some legal experts to examine this law in the light of a number of doubts that are being expressed here. Is there any legal expertise? Did this project come about simply because, for example. Mr. Marshal Kuchciński is still offended by the statement of one of his fellow Members, Mr. Marshal Dear, and this has caused... And so what about such statements as the treasonous murders, such as the widows of the Ubec, etc., etc.? Who... how the marshal will value the negative quality of one or another statement or such an attitude that someone, for example. He's gonna come with a stamp like that, not another stamp? After all, I pay attention to this. None of the regulations make the Senate Marshal or Sejm superiors of the Senator or Member. We know who our superior is, who we answer to, and who we have to account for. In front of the sovereign. On what basis will the Marshal or Vice-Marshal decide for one person the level of the penalty, whether this excess of the permitted standard was more than 100% or only 30%, etc.? This is ridiculous. The setting up of this kind of barrier compromises both the upper chamber and the lower chamber of parliament. The question is whether the senator's statement is a clear example of what I'm asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u69	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, when it comes to the question of a group of Members and their names, I am unfortunately unable to mention these names at the moment. If the senator's interested, I can commit to getting to those names and answering them in writing. I also do not know why there are no representatives of applicants at the meeting today. The senator has doubts that regulations on the work of the Sejm and the Senate should not be different. I can't answer that question. For years now, one legal act, i.e. the Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, has regulated the work of both Chambers, while technical issues, such as the specifics of the work of the Sejm and the Senate, are governed by the rules of procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which have so far been held, in colloquially speaking, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, will come to that end. As regards the question of Senator Czerwiński, these issues were raised at the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs when discussing possible changes to the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, some of the senators had doubts, comments, including the senator himself, that issues of reduced pay or reduced diet affect professional senators and non-professional senators unevenly. It should be noted that this is necessarily a forced inequality, because a declaration, a decision as to whether the senator will be professional or not, a parliamentarian makes an individual decision. In order to allow a certain degree of gradation to be imposed, the Marshal has several ways to punish the Senator, he can draw attention to him, etc. I suppose even punishment in the form of a marshal's attention, in accordance with the regulations, is for the senator. At least in my opinion it should be a signal that we need to consider how we are taking part in the Senate or its organs. As for the senator's question, let me just make it clear that this is a group of Members... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Which senator? Mine? My name is Damianka.]] Senator, yes. I would just like to clarify that this is a parliamentary presentation, not a group of senators, but a group of Members. So it's just a clarification. I cannot determine what were the reasons for such a presentation, where this initiative came from, whether it was derived from the concrete behaviour of Members of Parliament in the Parliament. These are also issues... If I were to say it... They're judged. We did not discuss this at the committee meeting. Once again, I am referring to the fact that the specific issues of functioning under the provisions of the Act, if it enters into force, will define our rules of procedure. I also express my optimism about the future of behaviour in our House. I am convinced that the marshals will not have to reach for such drastic ways of calling things to order. I would also like to point out that the Marshal and the Vice-Marshals are elected by the High House to conduct their deliberations so that they are the first to have a great responsibility, including those relating to the conduct of the deliberations, interpretation and interpretation of the Rules of Procedure during the deliberations. Certainly to the issues of assessing whether the behaviour in question by gross violation of the rules makes it impossible to... The question of whether the senators have violated the importance of the Senate, they will certainly take a great deal of thought, and possible decisions will be taken after a thorough analysis. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: You have not answered the second part of my question. Has the committee presented any legal expertise on the project by independent lawyers?]] No expertise was presented to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators at the meeting at which the amendment was discussed. What was important to us was that the Senate Legislative Office did not raise any objections. as regards the legislative party to the submission. While some of the provisions of the Act clearly clarify and establish issues relating to the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator, the provisions concerning both interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, as well as the catalogue of violations or behaviours which may accompany the activities of the parliamentarians, will necessarily have to be evaluated by those who sit in the Sejm or Senate bureau, i.e. those who perform the duties of marshals, especially at that time mainly this is the case. When they act as marshals.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u71	Thank you very much. Another round of questions. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u72	Senator, first of all, I would like to hear from you what is the definition of the seriousness of the Sejm and the Senate. The current rules set out quite precise standards as regards the grounds for punishing, reducing Members' and Senators' salaries. It's already in the rules. But here's a novelty: violating the seriousness of the Sejm and the Senate. I'd like to hear the definition. That's one thing. Second. What do you think... I think it's a mistake. At the beginning, a law was introduced, which at the same time concerns two chambers of parliament. What do you think about proposing? And I want to do it. To remove the Senate from this new provision? If the Sejm wants to do this, let him do it. I think it's a merger... that a bill that talks about the Sejm and the Senate in terms of the execution of a mandate, punishments, etc. He's not gonna pass the exam right now. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] And that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u73	Now you were Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, but I don't see your senator. Then I'll ask Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u74	Mr. Senator, as I said 15 minutes ago in my speech, I absolutely believe that the discrepancy between the Seym and the Senate, as far as the procedure is concerned, is very good. I believe that we should not allow Members to regulate anything, just as we do nothing. we do not regulate Members. I'm asking you one more time... I just tabled an amendment on the deletion of the Senate. And once again, was the matter raised in committee at all that the parliamentary initiative should not regulate changes in the Senate? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u75	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, of course I am not tempted to present a definition that could somehow define this catalogue or describe a standard of conduct that would or would not be subject to the application of this penalty. I'm looking at you as a longtime Senate marshal. I always approach this function with great confidence, especially when it comes to conducting deliberations. And I'm gonna confess myself. It's my personal opinion. That I always leave my judgment to the marshal, I rely on his wisdom in any case. That was the case when Mr. Marshal was in charge and he was a Marshal of the Senate. So it would be difficult for me to define... She should perhaps be led out of the standards of social behaviour adopted in our culture, in our customs, but today I will not be tempted to do something like this in front of this speaker. To answer... [[Mr. Senator, just one comment. I asked you about that definition, because I can't do that definition either.]] [[To put it together.]] [[...create, formulate. That's the only reason.]] In answer to the second question, or, in fact, to the point where we should not remove the higher House from those regulations which, in your opinion, indicate that they were mainly written under the behaviour of the lower House, I would like to continue with the thought of Senator Pociej, who has tabled an appropriate amendment in order to delete... Well, I'm sure the Senate will consider... [[I have also tabled an amendment with the senator.]] I see. The Senate will probably consider, also with the opinion of our Legislative Office, whether it is possible to diversify the actions of senators and Members in a single bill. [[He's gotta acknowledge it.]] You can see that it is difficult to bring the functioning of the Sejm and the functioning of the Senate under one rule. I hope that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure that we propose to the High House will somehow differentiate us, but that is what we have the right to do, because the Act also provides that the Senate's work is governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, and that it may be different from the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, they may differ even in such details.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u77	You'll ask Senator Dowhan another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I like the wording that you used, the forced inequality, and it concerns professional and non-professional senators. This division for me from the very beginning, when I had to make a choice in my previous term, was very vague and still unclear. I don't really understand what he's supposed to be about or who he's supposed to be. He's targeted. Even if someone is active, and this is not forbidden, he must spend time outside the Senate, and he must also be prepared for the Senate meeting, he must be present at the votes, he must attend committee meetings, etc. And because someone else is working, they can't take this modest salary from the Senate, but they can take it, to my knowledge, teachers, teachers, and some other group. Has the committee ever dealt with this? Can you sit over this bill and try to change something that was created several or several decades ago and had a different dimension then?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u79	Mr Senator, I was in the rule of law committee in my previous term of office and I am in this term of office, and I must say that we have not dealt with these issues. You've actually noticed something very important in the senator's life. Some senators have to decide, as if from a vending machine, that they become professional senators, because they have to stop their activities and take appropriate leave. And some senators have a choice, they have to decide whether or not to stop their activities with which they are bound, activities which, in addition to satisfaction, brings them much higher income, and take up, as the law regulates, the duties of a professional senator. Although there is an inequality in the treatment of professional and non-professional senators by the rules, it is certainly up to them to decide whether or not to choose a formula for the work of a professional or non-professional senator, in addition, of course, to those cases governed by law in which they must cease their activities if they want to fulfil the mandate of a senator or, more generally, a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u80	No further questions. Thank you very much, senator, for your answers. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law proposed by the Group of Members is also intended to include senators. This is the law on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator who glabshes the mandate of a Member and a Senator. The separation of our House is guaranteed constitutionally. The Constitution has no idea of Parliament and it was done consciously. [[Cell phone signal]] [[Excuse me, mute the phones in the O.R.]] There is a Sejm and a Senate in the Constitution, two separate Chambers, and we have one law on Members and Senators, a very important law regulating our functioning here in the House, but also outside the Chamber. The separation of the House is not only formal or enshrined in the Constitution, it is real. As senators, we know that. It is different for us to discuss, it is different for us to conduct our deliberations, to speak. Without going into details, I would like to say that whoever was a Member and a Senator or a Senator, and then a Member, is well aware of that. I think it was a mistake to make one bill for the two Houses, especially since... well, it's normal that the strength of the House is greater in terms of legislation, and our House is in the shadow of the House. This is not only about this bill, but also about the assessment of voters or the society that we appear to be as a common Chamber. If there's something going on in the Seym, they say to us, "Oh, you guys are there..." Or if you have any comments about the Sejm, it is said that you have done something, you have approved. We should emphasise the subjectivity of our House We, the senators. It's in our best interest. [[Applause]] This bill is still moving in this direction. Let's face it. After all, when we watch what is happening in the Seym, and we participate in what is happening in the Senate, we see the difference. Therefore, the rules which the Sejm may impose on itself and on Members should not be adopted uncritically by us Senators. I will submit an amendment to remove from this bill, from this most important point about punishing people who violate their behaviour in the sitting room the seriousness of the Sejm, the Senate or the National Assembly. If Members want to do this kind of tightening, let them do it, but I do not see any reason to introduce it to the Senate and the senators. In fact, Dear Senators, once you are in opposition, once you are a government party, once you rule, and once you are in opposition. I, too, was opposed to changes, i.e. violations of the issue of taking back immunity, changes in that direction, etc. And I think that this position is the position of the majority, in fact, of all senators. We should not make changes that we are concerned about. And I have concerns about this change. I'll tell you why. So far, there has been the possibility of punishment and financial penalties. Maybe you didn't realize it because the marshal never once applied that financial penalty. And he didn't use it because there was no need. All you had to do was pay attention, a good word, a good conversation, and these problems, it was to tighten up the discussion, the spark that occasionally is, it's been unloading. I knew I had the opportunity to punish money, but I didn't apply it once. And it is also a good thing that the marshal of this term does not reach for this possibility. Good. But he doesn't reach for it either because there's no need for it. So why do we need to tighten up on this? I asked the Senator rapporteur about the notion of a violation of the Sejm's seriousness, the definition of seriousness. Of course, it was a rhetorical question, because I wanted to know if it was... or if I didn't know what definition to put here, which means I didn't know. But it turns out that the senator from another club that we argue with, and I argue hard, isn't able to give that definition either. Mr. Senator, the marshal is unable to define this definition. It means that if he wants to, he can put everything under that definition. Ancient Rome, which waged numerous wars and expanded the empire, conquered other kingdoms and nations... [[Mr. Marshal, before you start trading these wars, I'll say one more minute.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You're violating the seriousness, Mr. Marshal.]] All right. Mr. Marshal, good, good... [[Because I just know what the historical knowledge of your marshal is...]] No, no... [[...and you may not fit in this minute.]] Thank you very much, but I'll fit in. Ancient Rome did not only conquer by sword, but also by taking the gods of conquered nations into slavery. After all, the Pantheon is the place to which he brought other gods into one temple, and he kept them there, in the midst of Rome, to keep these conquered nations, because in this way it was possible to influence the most. But he also used legal procedures, a simple legal procedure. In peace agreements, in which two parties agreed to peace and cooperation, he wrote at the end one point about the dignity of Rome. What was that dignity of Rome? No one was able to define it. So in every situation where Rome wanted to say the treaty, he said: the treaty is invalid, so all that we agreed to is irrelevant because you violated Rome's dignity. [[Mr. Marshal...]] So let us not make this provision mandatory in the Senate, because it is just such a thing as this dignity of Rome written in order to be able to react or make decisions bad for those conquered. I appeal to the senators to cross us out. The Senate of this bill change. I think it should be one of the steps separating the Senate from the Sejm. This situation is not good for the Senate, it does not create our subjectivity. And we should care about that, all the senators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u82	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u83	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! Not much can be added to what Marshal Borusewicz said. However, I would like to stress one thing, that the existing provisions of the Act are, of course, much broader than the two paragraphs we are talking about here. We're emotional. These records, apparently general, were, in my opinion, sufficient. I'll quote it in the original version. Rules for reducing the salary of Members and Senators preventing, by gross violation of the relevant rules of procedure, the work of the Sejm and Senate or the National Assembly. A similar record refers to diets. One is about pay and the other is about diets. Attempts to introduce so-called extending or putting coffee on the bench, as we understand it, arouses our dislike and protest, because that law gives the opportunity for all these matters to be governed by the rules of the Sejm, the Senate and the National Assembly. If the Sejm wants to tighten this up and literally say that here we will be punishing for preventing work by grossly violating the rules of the relevant regulations, not participating in the proceedings and violating its conduct in the Chamber of Sejm, Senate, etc., then let him put such a point in his Rules of Procedure and leave the Senate outside of the standard he wishes to include here. This was justified by Marshal Borusewicz. Always the seriousness and behavior of a person is judged by another person. Each of us has a catalog of values, a catalog of behavior and a sense of so-called. decency. He may vary depending on, I don't know, faith, upbringing, the way you look at things. What is acceptable to some is unacceptable to others. What is acceptable to some is reprehensible to others. Some of the things to be assessed could possibly be included in a collective opinion, which could be delivered by a rule committee. Then you can determine whether someone behaved properly or if they have offended the seriousness Maybe not dignity, but seriousness. The Houses. The Rules of Procedure could also determine what the gradation of reminders and even financial penalties should be like. Therefore, together with Marshal Borusewicz, we proposed one amendment to the bill. She's probably not gonna pass, but it might be worth thinking about. I call on the Rules of Procedure Committee to reflect deeply on the revision of the law and the introduction of something that was also mentioned during this plenary session. I'm talking about interpellations that would be more important than our statements. I would like to add so much in the discussion on this point. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kobiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! The discussion was ongoing at the committee meeting and it is now ongoing, but to be clear, I would like to point out that the amendments to the law we are talking about concern only 2 points. So the whole amendment of the law is a change in 2 points: in the point on financial punishment, in the pay of the senator and in the money that the senator receives for his diet. So the whole bill is about one thing: how to punish the senators financially. Every bill we're working on should solve a problem. We make laws because we know there's a problem, and we solve it by law. Is there such a problem with punishing senators in an additional way? Did the senators of a group of senators or single senators address the Members of this law with this problem, asking them to solve this problem? Or did you address these Members with the information that there is such a problem and ask them to solve this problem? Or have these Members been to Senate meetings, seen that there is a problem, and they want to solve this problem? Is there really no problem, and yet Members are trying to introduce such a law, which is a law that solves a problem that does not exist? I'm talking about the Senate. I'm not talking about the Seym. I am curious to see how Members of the Senate would behave if a bill were made on the initiative of the Senate on how to punish Members. How would they react to that? I believe that the Members wish to include the Senate in this bill only for the sake of society. If that's the way it's supposed to be, it's the way it's supposed to be. That's not the problem. This bill doesn't make sense because it doesn't solve the problem. That's not the problem. However, I would like to draw attention to some incorrect provisions in this law. On the one hand, in the bill we are talking about, there is a provision that the reduction of diet cannot be made even by way of execution. It's an art. 42 point 2. So even the court can't pass judgment to take the Senator's diet, and you can do that to a marshal. In my opinion, this is a clear contradiction. However, the diet should be protected, assuming that the penalty for reducing senators' salary is sufficient. This law does not mention how high a financial penalty can affect a senator or a Member. There's no indication that it could be, for example. 50% , or 100% . So if there isn't, then, as I understand it, you can be punished by receiving 100%. At the committee meeting we talked about this, we asked your legislator how he saw it, and the answer was that, according to the letter of the law, you can actually be punished by taking these 100%. According to the Spirit Maybe not. But if the record doesn't state that it's not allowed, then it's supposed to be allowed. Therefore, we may have a situation where a senator or a Member will be punished by taking away all his diet and all his salary, salary, that is to say, he will not get a penny. I would like to point out that in many legal arrangements concerning how much can be taken from a worker's salary, there is always a minimum amount that stays an employee in any situation, because something has to live for. And there is no such restriction here, which is undoubtedly a drawback of this solution. Any amendment to the law, so the law amending the law, and any new law should improve the law. That's why we make new laws so that the law is better, better, clearer and simpler. So the new law amending the old law should be absolutely more unambiguous, simpler to understand and simpler to apply. Unfortunately, these records that have been introduced here are coming, I have the impression, in the opposite direction. The statement of seriousness is so vague that, compared with the previous law, it significantly reduces the quality of this right in a decisive way. There's a fundamental difference here, because there's a law that we know more or less how to violate, so that we can be punished, and on the basis of that, we don't really know whether we've violated it or not. It is not enough that an interpretation of the infringement can take place after a week, after two weeks, which can cause the senator not even to be aware that he did something for which he may be punished by taking his salary and diet. My predecessors spoke about the shortcomings of this solution, and they also said that there is no point in creating a single rule for Members and for Senators. I have been trying to convince Members that they want to make such a law for us without exploring the specifics of the Senate. I therefore recommend not only to accept the amendments, but even not to accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u86	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u87	Dear Senators, I will try quickly... It's not like there's anything else changing out there. In this law, only one thing changes: it was introduced into this law only this issue of seriousness, violation of seriousness. Because when it comes to violating the Sejm's regulations, etc., all of this has been done before, it was also a matter of not participating in the deliberations without justification, etc. So that the only change we're talking about here is a violation of seriousness. And that's what's been introduced. And I want to protest against that. The thing might seem a little grotesque and very frivolous. Despite the introduction of this seriousness, we can only guess why this has been introduced. Perhaps someday it will be called: lex, Mr. Marshal Dear. But imagine that one day we'll have a marshal who doesn't have a sense of humor, and he'll treat everything as a violation of seriousness. 'Cause I think there's a lot of room for interpretation here. And we've never had anything like this in the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, I don't recall anything like it. And we joke around here a lot. I think that one of our colleagues, who is in our parliamentary club, our senator, who occasionally colors long, tedious discussions with jokes or something, might feel very financially threatened by some marshal who doesn't have a sense of humor. I'm talking about this because this seriousness is very difficult to define. Once again, I stress that nothing like this happens here, just doesn't happen, and we don't have such marshals either. I wonder why the committee simply did not reject this solution, why it did not reject it. If the Sejm wants to bring something like this in, maybe... He can try to put it in his own part, in his own rules, or through something like that, somehow define it. But That's what I think. The Senate should absolutely not introduce this because it would violate our subjectivity. And it's completely unnecessary. And I have a question for you, but I don't know... I don't think Marshal Bielan's gonna answer that. But I wonder if these Members consulted with the Marshal of the Sejm. Probably because I think... I might have guessed that maybe it was your Marshal Sejm's idea. But have our marshals been consulted on the idea of introducing a question of violation of seriousness and financial punishment for breach of seriousness? Well, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz shakes his head that I don't think he's... So I regret it. And I appeal to all Members, including the Law and Justice... [[Senators.]] ...Senators, I'm sorry... Let's see, let's see, why don't we adopt this amendment that you made to Marshal Borusewicz in order to delete the Senate... And let's stay out of the Sejm. Let them do it as they wish, but let us not submit to such regulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u88	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u89	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I asked a question to the Senator, to a colleague of the Elephant, who had tabled this amendment... this bill... the Senator couldn't explain it to us. We also do not see the Members' Groups in the Chamber today. In fact, we do not even know the authors of this law, people who are so preventive that they have decided to report something that relates to what has never happened in this House. In fact, the subject we are discussing should be separated, because the Sejm and the Senate, however, are fundamentally different from each other. And I don't know what's happened, all of a sudden the punishment needs to be increased. In this House... I don't recall a marshal punishing anyone during the last or this term. At least I didn't realize that. Moreover, the representative of the Rules of Procedure today confirmed this in his reply to the questions that did not happen. And since the senators weren't punished, Because, I don't know, I don't answer... I don't know what it's like in the Seym. Why is this even being introduced here? If it were rude, if we were actually punished by the marshal and those penalties weren't working, then I understand that it would have to be done so that the marshal could introduce discipline. But I wonder how the marshal himself will be punished. Which, of course, I don't wish on any marshal or vice marshal. 'Cause it can be different... We are baked from the same flour and perhaps there will be such a situation that the marshal at some point will cross the limits of good manners, good behavior. Well, then what? Is there an institution, or is it indicated in this law, who will then judge the marshal and who will punish the marshal? Well, we don't know the answer to that question, but the bill doesn't know the answer to that question either. I would like Members not to regulate matters which concern us and which they may not have the slightest idea of, because rather few Members are attending Senate meetings. Perhaps Members watch our deliberations on television or later watch media shortcuts. But if Members really looked at the work of the Sejm and the Senate, they would answer the question whether it is worth writing the word "Senat" in this law at all. Well, I really don't recall there being such appalling scenes here that we have the opportunity to see in Parliament's room next door in the House. I would also like to raise a subject that you have also raised by the rapporteur, Mr Elephant. He used such a pretty cool phrase of forced inequality. This is about the unequal treatment of Members and Senators with regard to the exercise of their mandate, depending on whether they are professional or not... I can't quite understand it, because everyone, whether we're professional or not, must do the same responsibilities, so attend the Senate meetings, attend committee meetings, justify ourselves if we're not present, participate in delegations and do all kinds of things in connection with the writings that are addressed to us either by the committee or by the marshal himself. But I do not understand why it is to be treated differently by someone who carries on an economic activity, why he should not be paid, although he does the same. This is a strange regulation for me, especially since it does not apply to certain professional groups, such as teachers who are exempt from it. Perhaps this is an appeal to those Members who want to regulate and only punish, and perhaps it is necessary after 27 years of democracy and free Poland to sit down to this law and verify it again so that there are no such dilemmas. I would rather go in the same direction as my predecessors to separate the Sejm and the Senate, so that no one from the Sejm would set the Senate for his or her behavior. My colleagues have tabled an amendment on the deletion of the word 'Senat', and I am making an amendment to reject this law in its entirety. I'd expect more... Because there are no such appalling behaviors in this room that were seen in the Seym. That's why I'd be more focused on not having any behavior that probably doesn't suit senators, phone calls or loud bells, because it's nagminne. And I think it's something the marshal should enforce in the near future. The point is that this House's seriousness is 100%. And not just the percentage of those who don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u90	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is it? It is probably a question of disciplinary action against Members of the opposition in the Sejm. We all remember these words: Marshal Beloved, Cheating Murders etc. So the Members have come to the conclusion. This group, which is not known It is necessary to amend it here. The keywords are the seriousness of the Sejm. These are the keywords of the Sejm. What about these keywords now? The frequent use of these words, if a marshal wants to punish Members for it, can lead to the silent Seym. 'Cause once, twice, three times, it's gonna be the silent Seym. And the German Sejm took place in 1717 in Warsaw. Then it was not allowed for Members to speak. Thus, it may happen that we will come to the Dumb Sejm as a result of frequent use of this provision. But this is the case of the Sejm, not ours. We have our own rules of procedure, and it is clear in these rules that you read the article. 25 and Article 25 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The case of senators who do not perform senators' duties, as well as senators who behave in a manner that does not correspond to the dignity of the senator... It's basically the same thing. And then, they are subject to the request, and here are the reprimands, the reminders, etc. And then we've also written what Senator Rotnicka has already said, which is punishment. What are they like? Reduction of salary for 3 months. It's all written. What Mr. Marshal Borusewicz was talking about, it's just that the Marshal doesn't use it. And rightly, he doesn't use it. Therefore, without further developing or repeating what you have all said, I only ask one question: what should I do? Should a motion for rejection be made? Because this is a proposal from Members, so this is their problem, not ours. They can't force us to have what they want in our regulations, too. I already checked it out. I was in the legal office. So there are two ways... You can reject the entire project... the entire bill, because it has already passed through the Sejm, or you can delete these words in 2 articles, in 2 points in this law I'm not gonna say it again, because it's clearly defined. And then this bill will not apply to senators, that is, we will stick to our own. And here I would appeal to all the senators, including the PiS, that we together, these two minor amendments, but very important to us, accept. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u92	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! It's not only not a minor change, it's not even a significant change, but it's a change of character, I dare say, a systemic change. The Sejm and the Senate are, by nature, called to be a place of clash, to be a place of struggle for rations, as we understand them, with the good of the country in mind. John Paul II said in this building that the essence of democracy is a dispute. Of course, it is good when this dispute is fought very culturally, without excessive emotion, but there is no parliament in the world in which it would always succeed. Moreover, that is why there is this dispute in Parliament to prevent, as far as possible, discussing other forums, in other places, in the streets, in the squares, during demonstrations or in some other way. That is why I believe that guaranteeing the opposition the opportunity to speak freely, and even to say more broadly, to respond to the ruling actions is the essence of parliamentary democracy. In my opinion, the introduction of these provisions will have two consequences. The first one will be, I'd say, preventive. There will be pressure, the possibility of financial pressure and constant weighing, whether you like it or not, which would mean that to a lesser extent it will matter what we want to say on behalf of the sovereign, and in greater terms how it will be judged: whether or not we cross certain boundaries. This is not a theoretical problem, ladies and gentlemen. Well, if that were the case, I'd say, well, we're gonna settle it in the Rules of Procedure, nothing like that happened in the Senate, nothing happened, anything like that. Only that we are witnessing the possibility of exerting such economic pressure in the neighbouring Chamber, in the Chamber of Parliament, is used, even often, and even more often, and it is in this term of office. So you could say that this kind of preemptive pressure, a kind of censorship that causes a lot of self-censorship, could be I am even saying that it is the intended purpose of these changes. Why do I say it is? Because, in my opinion, we have seen many examples of how democratic mechanisms and judicial control of state action and public authority are being dismantled in recent days. And public authority must be controlled. In fact, I think it's logical that the railroad and the Sejm and the Senate had to come. And here we are witnessing the fact that you are trying, through very vague provisions in the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, not only to increase the pressure on senators and Members of the opposition... I have no doubt that most people will not be able to hurt themselves, but I think this is an introduction to violence, economic violence. Well, why should you or the senator admonish him and ask him to get off the stand when he protests, in my opinion, rightly, against abuse of the rules and blocking the possibility of free speech? Why? I mean, you can tell him he won't get a salary, he won't get a diet. What is more, this provision is so formulated - We don't have a regular supplement yet. That it creates the opportunity that the rapporteur has already spoken of here. It's the marshal who interprets the rules. Probably there will be no way to appeal against such a decision. Here, ladies and gentlemen, those who, on behalf of the nation, are to express opinions and control power here, will be put first under pressure, and then openly under economic pressure, so that they do not raise their voices too much to be complacent. And this is an extraordinary situation. I'm not prepared to say if this is the case in other countries today, but looking at what's going on around me, I'm full of the worst feeling about how it's going to work in practice. Of course, it would have to be blind not to notice the obvious difference in the culture of the dispute between what is happening in the Seym and what is happening in the Senate. Despite all the clashes with the marshals conducting the deliberations, it would be necessary to be dishonest not to notice that neither Marshal Karczewski nor any of the Vice-Marshals of the majority have ever used their tools, those already existing today, to punish harshly speaking senators. Well, that's how it has been so far, but we're talking about the law, and we're talking about the law, and we need to think about its obvious effects. Of course, I would be outraged if, from one side or another, there were some annoying words addressed to a colleague, representatives of the authorities, marshals, etc., but so far they have not fallen. Ladies and gentlemen, I've worked eight years on the rule board, and I know we haven't had these situations. If it ever happened... It just came to us. There's a certain degree of punishment here, but there's never been any economic pressure. That is why I believe that these rules must be rejected not only because they do not come and are not needed in the Senate, but also because they are dangerous to parliamentarians, to its shape. That would be another element that I'm sure would be noticed... After a dozen years, I feel that way today. This does not apply only to this last period. The Parliament's role towards the executive authority is constantly weakening, from term to term, and this law will cause the opposition's role to be marginalized in political dispute as well. And you could say this: how we're going to get everyone to think the same thing or think the same thing, then the saying will come true... Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. [[Thank you.]] ...that where everyone thinks the same, probably nobody thinks too much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u94	Thank you very much, but I don't think we're in any danger of thinking the same way. Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What are the Members for, the Messengers? What are the senators for? Why are we in this House? People who come to the Parliamentary Offices and to the Senate Offices with all kinds of cases are mostly scared. They're afraid to speak, they're afraid to talk about their problems, they're afraid that local government, central government or someone who has power over them because they're working somewhere... If they've collided with some problem, they're afraid to talk about it so that someone with more power, more influence, doesn't hurt me any more. Parliamentarians are among others. To help people solve problems. But how are we supposed to help people if we're about to be afraid to say something? How are we supposed to act on behalf of those who come to us when we're about to be somewhat embarrassed and afraid to say something? The essence of democracy, the essence of free elections and the essence of what we call free Poland today, is among others. That we have the right to say what we think, that we have the right to fight for our beliefs, that we have the right to fight for what we believe. Now you want to take that away from us. Even if I was to be wrong ten times on this platform and only once was right, judging the rulers, it is worth it for this one time to have an opposition. Even if I had to say something ten times that many would think was unwise, but this one time I would be right, it's worth it for this one time to have opposition. Today, people are afraid of power because they're fired because... we immediately adopted various laws in which a lot of people were fired from work. People are afraid they might lose their jobs. Today they're afraid and the media, because you want to punish them. We're supposed to be scared, too. This is how this system was created, and I think it's good that it's supposed to be governing and it's supposed to be opposition. This opposition is going to ask difficult questions, this opposition is going to ask questions, this opposition is going to point out mistakes. Often the opposition becomes something so important that it can protect the rulers from making serious mistakes. For when we look at the hands of the rulers as an opposition, they too watch. Who, if not the Member, but the Senator, with a view to the foundation of freedom, democracy, is to have freedom of expression? Do we want it to be like it used to be when parliamentarians were bribed, bribed and bullied? And what did that lead to? There was no Poland because we were robbed, because those who were supposed to speak and defend values kept quiet. Do we want to do this today? Dear Izbo! Tell me, please, how are we supposed to defend the weakest today from this speaker, how are we supposed to defend those who have problems, how are we supposed to speak freely today, when each one of us in the back of our head will have the possibility of being punished. I don't want to talk about penalties right now, about what they're gonna be like. Any punishment imposed on a parliamentarians will actually stop him from investigating the truth. Tell me now, please, I address those who are on the side of the rulers, which is the majority of the parliamentary... It may be necessary to prepare a simple bill: who wins the election, takes all of it, has 460 Members and 100 Senators, and there will be no problem. Because today is what the government is doing... Its emanation is the parliamentary majority. And who is to be the one who controls the government today, who is to be the one who disagrees with those decisions, who shows completely different ideas, other proposals for Poland, other solutions? Yeah, that's the opposition. Even if her proposals do not please the rulers, they have the right to sound in this Chamber and not just in this Chamber. Please tell me at the very end, dear colleagues of the Law and Justice, what I have to say today to the person who comes to me at the senator's office with a serious case that is afraid to say about his problems elsewhere, afraid of some restrictions, afraid that he might be further punished. I'm supposed to tell her, "I'm afraid to take the floor too, 'cause I'm going to be punished, excluded, and maybe a bill will be drawn up that I'll be taken away by a senator's mandate?" Or should I say the same in my senator's office? This man, woman or man, will say: why do we choose you? After all, that is why there are free elections in Poland, so that we go to the polls so that you can be our mouths, our representatives in parliament. But if it's taken away, why are you in parliament? To defend power? To speak the way the authorities want? This already leads to a very dangerous phenomenon called dictatorship. I will end my speech with what I said yesterday: remember, ladies and gentlemen Once again I say to the ruling party that one day elections are lost. And remember, those who come after you, with such an example, can tighten these rules even more. And then you'll be on this side of what we are today, which is probably unworthy of the free Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u96	Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u97	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Way of Youth! Invited guests! What I don't like about this bill is that Members are actually writing us the rules. And I agree with those voices about the legal sphere that the Senate should take care of its autonomy. So much for this bill and its legal sphere. Now on the concept of the Senate's seriousness. And here is my observation as a senator who first came to the High House. It is, of course, true that the difference between the Seym and the Senate in terms of the way in which Members and Senators behave is very large. Besides, these two buildings are separated by a symbolic grate which is not far away, in this passage which connects the Sejm to the Senate. Some even mock that it is a sign of division between sacrum and profanum. And, of course, the Higher House attaches itself to a higher level, especially as regards the culture of the sitting. And in most cases it is. They are happy when one of the coalition senators, using ad personam arguments, which should not often happen here or should not happen at all, can apologize. We've seen this happen several times. But we have also witnessed situations that make me very uncomfortable and even embarrassed. Here's the coat of arms. Well, it is not created according to the principles of heraldics, but it is a symbol of the Republic of Poland. [[The emblem.]] Herb. [[The emblem.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Kisiel to Bohdan Chmielnicki, remember how he brought him a piece of work, and he told him that it was too late, and there were many other voices, he said: I am not representing myself here, and the majesty of the Republic of Poland. And that is precisely the sense that we represent the majesty of the Republic. So you do not agree, Ladies and Gentlemen, to speak from this place in a hat. Well, my mother taught me that in rooms, in churches, in holy places, in symbolic places, where there are emblems, symbols of our tradition, like a cross or an eagle, you should take off your hat. Is that how it's always been here? Or were there incidents? Now, remember this. And a few days ago, when we were once again witnessing performance, because that's how it's called today's new language of culture or art, and when your marshal told the senator to take the mask off his face, and then the words of an unworthy senator fell on a woman's face, did anyone react in this room? [[Where are the feminists?]] I think it's up to us, ladies and gentlemen. For me, regulations and regulations are secondary. As I said, I do not like the fact that Members want to write us how we should behave, but let us also work on our behaviour. These comments often come from the room and such simple behaviors concerning cell shutdown, etc... Let's be an example. We are to be an example not only of proceding, but we are to be an example to society of how to behave, to be an example of personal culture, of word culture. That's what I'd like for you and me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u98	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u99	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Invited guests! I would like to speak in just one aspect, namely in this respect, whether the Rules of Procedure of the Senate are to be identical with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. And I would like to present here the thesis that there is no need, that there is no argument for such regulations to be fully agreed and that they should be written mainly in the Seym, because that is the truth. I do not mean to say that we are more important than the House, that we are a higher House in the sense that our importance is greater than the House of Parliament, but that we are different from it. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we all voted in favour of this. The resolution on the 95th anniversary of the first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland. And this resolution obliges us to seek special care of the Senate, also for its distinctness. Therefore, such a test, which in this change is included, glaischachting, because we need to have rules on every comma similar to the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, especially in the context of what we have just voted for, is not justified in my view. I therefore ask that we reflect on what may be our diversity, although we are one parliament, one country and one nation. But you can also beautifully get differences in terms of regulations, taking into account the specifics of Chambers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u100	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Dear guests! High Izbo! I must say, as long as the previous days in the Senate could be described as dramatic, we now have moments of psychiatry. And I have nothing but to agree with my esteemed speakers, with Senator Gawl, with Senator Szymanski, that the Senate of the Republic of Poland, the High House, as we will represent it will be perceived. I'm signing with both hands, keeping the senate separate. One of the oldest democracies in the world, British democracy, is extremely well named for both chambers. The lower chamber is called the House of Commons. And the Savoir-vivre in the municipality is slightly different than the Savoir-vivre in the House of Lords And here is the House of Lords. It's amazing to impose a muzzle on us, plus one that already exists. I would be delighted if, for once in this House, we did not listen to the guidelines coming from this or that direction, but voted in accordance with our own will and conscience, and opposed to being treated as communes as people who are not worthy of a senator's mandate. I think that among 100 senators, even politically different, we have enough self-regulation mechanisms not to bring about the situation in the lower chamber. I remind you that in the current Senate Rules of Procedure, in the article. 25a, it is said that a marshal may order a reduction in the senator's salary, may order a reduction in the parliamentary diet, may order a loss of the senator's right to a parliamentary diet. Then why are we doing this? It's all there. We also expose ourselves to ridicule on the other hand, expecting people to respect the Senate. We need to start building the Senate prestige, even bigger than it is. He's taller than the Sejm, anyway, but I agree with my esteemed speakers here. He's too short. I therefore ask you very much to support the amendment tabled by your colleagues saying that these changes that you have proposed to Marshal Kuchciński or a group of Members Only the Sejm was concerned because they were not here at the meeting. Let's stick with the old rules, which all these restrictions are mentioned here, and so it contains. Fortunately, they are relatively rarely used in this House. Let's be decent. Let's behave ourselves. Because if we want pride and the glory of the upper chamber of parliament to shine on the whole nation, then we have to start with each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seemed to be an act of emergency, a minor amendment. But this is an amendment that's very important in the system. This is an amendment that continues to form the basis of the Sejm and the Senate, or parliament, and has no idea of Parliament in the Constitution. And it was done consciously. There are 2 separate Chambers: the Sejm and the Senate. The Sejm and the Senate do not form joint committees, and they sit together only in some cases, creating a National Assembly. Not the Sejm and the Senate, but the National Assembly. This is a conscious separation. There's a bill coming to us that doesn't take into account the specifics of the Senate. I agree. There are situations that go beyond the normal procession that Senator Gawada was talking about. There have been such situations before, e.g. The Senator of Podhale spoke in a folk costume. And it's no problem that in folk costume, because it's very good that in folk costume And he said his speech singingly, but not so smoothly, just simply He sang them. I thought the situation was unusual, but it doesn't require intervention. Maybe somebody else would think it demeans the dignity of the Senate. Another senator, the previous term, came and made puppet theater here, some of us remember. Well, there have been incidents, but that's not the reason for us to treat ourselves, the senators, and the Senate just as much as the Seym wants to treat ourselves. But there is such a thing as immunity. This immunity gives us the right to speak and talk about things that are not good for power. And you have to be very careful in limiting it, because where like where, but in the Senate and in the Seym you should say it, and it even sounds very harsh. Of course, certain boundaries should not be exceeded, but when you cross these boundaries, colleagues from the same group should intervene and not opposers, because then there is simply an escalation of certain political charges instead of following the rules. Mr. Senator, we've responded to what you mentioned. I didn't hear it myself, but then, of course, we talked about it. I think the senator understood his mistake, and that kind of behavior won't happen again. But I also think it's not good that yesterday we were restricted to ask questions, not to speak, of course, but to ask questions. In the Senate, the iron rule was that it wasn't limited to... Anyone could ask, especially the opposition would ask to pain. I understand that you can hurry, there is a schedule, you can accuse that the opposition is stalling. But the opposition can't vote for anything without the majority's approval, so the fact that it's gonna drag... what's the problem? Such an opposition has the right and should not be restricted. Here I see an attempt to limit. Fortunately, not by the Senate Marshal, but by the Sejm Marshal. And in the Senate, we shouldn't agree to that... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...but we should fight to preserve the subjectivity of the Senate. The Senate must be different from the Sejm, and we must guard it ourselves. The Senate has a different policy, another way to speak... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...and we should keep an eye on that, too. Let's not get gloated. [[...I have to keep an eye on the rules.]] Because this is important, not only for our position, because our position is important for democracy in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u104	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u105	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, indeed this law belongs to the so-called. controversial laws, and it has indeed been passed on to us by the Sejm. We have every right not only to think about it, but also to consider the separation of the Senate, the prestige of the Senate to be obvious values for us. It is undoubtedly not only our right, but also our duty to try to fulfill these words, of course also at the level of legislation. But like everything on this earth, you can put it in this famous saying that the stick has two ends. And I'd suggest you see both ends of that stick. And I've got a feeling With all due respect for what I heard outside the room and now, especially from Marshal Borusewicz, whom I mostly agree with, because just one end of this stick... In my opinion, it is important to mention the probable intentions of the original legislators, a group of Members, in this law. The intention, as these records show, is not to change the nature of the basic document, which differs us from the Sejm, the rules of operation, the rules of procedure. I want the Senate's Rules of Procedure and the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. The separation of these rules is, of course, honored. What is more, it is a distinctness so far gone that the law introduces in point 3 because it is, of course, the most important principle for us in this discussion, so something that is a frame with which it is either a frame or we agree or we do not. And at this level it is worth talking about this frame, and it will only be translated into the language of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, which already belongs to us, sovereignly, and this language, and the way of translation. So now that we're done with this, let's move on to the point, that is to say, a passage that violates its behaviour in the courtroom of seriousness. And here, Mr. Marshal, to be clear: I agree with you and I believe that, without a doubt, entering into such a general term, the concept of law is dangerous because it can be used in a way that is not in accordance with intentions. And that's always the problem. I remember, for example, that when I was an employee of the Institute of National Remembrance, we wondered whether we should have the ethical principles of an IPN employee included in the regulations. As you know, an IPN employee, this institution... And this is not an ordinary institution in Poland. If a liar gets in her way, he could ruin a lot of life stories. So on the one hand, the reality of our work told us that we had to introduce a general principle, but on the other hand, there was a thought on the back of our head. It's perfectly right, Mr. Marshal. Whether or not this will in turn limit our research, our educational activities, the opportunity to present the truth. 'Cause maybe there's someone who's gonna come up with a devil's idea to use it for bad intentions. And I'm going back to the other end of that stick again. Well, the problem, I think, is that we should realize that this particular change was imposed here or introduced Now this is no longer the most important to me at a specific historical moment in which we are now. And my personal problem is that. I hope it's not just my problem. I do not know whether we are all keeping ourselves as a political formation due vigilance, so that our conduct does not only affect the seriousness of the sitting room, but also reminds us of the public space to which this violation of seriousness reaches and causes consequences that we no longer have any control over. The recent arson-related events, the destruction of parliamentary offices are a signal... All I'm saying is that they are a signal that is worth considering, because we can later be rightly accused of not having any obligation, in this case the obligations of the senators as public persons, and we have not created the conditions of our own self-discipline, under which we can say to ourselves: yes, we are doing everything not to create in the public space an atmosphere of hatred from which hate arises the facts over which these facts and their consequences, as I said, are no longer in control. I'm trying to understand these intentions. In fact, the Sejm, not the Senate, the intentions of the Members Because in the Sejm we have witnessed many times behaviors in which emotions were evidently brought to such a dimension of hatred that it could then result in certain facts that would burden us morally. And neither you, Mr. Marshal, nor I could withdraw from this moral responsibility. Well, unless we don't have consciences, but I'm hoping we all have consciences here. And then we could just ask ourselves if we've done our utmost. Perhaps, if it is not possible otherwise, it is necessary to introduce a rule of law that could serve us as such an incentive for internal autoreflexion, limiting perhaps our weaknesses. I know that the conclusion that comes out of my mouth is going to be a big boom, causing all these wise sentences to fall down, if any of these were in my speech. For I must say that at this point I do not know how to vote. It is indeed a controversial law, indeed providing arguments to people on both sides of this stick. I'm gonna go and pray to myself to answer the question, which part of this stick is more important. I appeal to all, at least those who have God in their heart, to also devote 30 seconds to this or any other word prayer and to consider that we should weigh these rations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u106	Thank you very much. Senator Napieralski. There's more senators coming along. I just want to remind you that we have a few more points to consider. [[One more.]] Well, two plus extension. [[One.]] Two more points, Mr. Marshal. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[The ordination will come in.]] Well, point six and point eight, and my intuition tells me there's something else coming from the Sejm, so... [[There's still the electoral ordination on the way.]] Of course, we have a meeting scheduled for tomorrow, but I appeal for... [[We'll do anything.]] [[What election order?]] You're welcome, Senator Napieralski. For the second time, right? Going twice, so five minutes. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Just one point.]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: But either you give someone a voice or you take a break.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Napieralski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u107	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Professor, I'm addressing you because your voice inspired me very much. Our views are kind of on two sides of our political scene, and yet we are able to talk to each other, especially in clowns, and I think that is valuable and very important in politics, although in many places we argue. The essence of politics is dispute. This is the absolute essence of politics. Without dispute there would be no vision of Poland, there would be no vision of our future. Without a dispute, there would be no development of our country. And in fact, I agree that this dispute should be within some framework. I am a politician who can often be blunt, but I try not to exceed any standards and I try not to attack anyone personally, although I may disagree with someone. I would not like to combine two cases that take place in Poland. What is happening today in the parliamentary offices, and what is happening in private with the various people who are active in politics, the kind of people they sometimes encounter, is a separate matter and does not concern what we are discussing today. Although this is an important problem And here I agree with the professor. It's very important. How do we make sure this doesn't happen? Of course, it is us, not only who are in this House, but also those who have access to the media, who should show that we can differ, we can argue, we can disagree, but we can do so within the framework of serious and very cultural standards. We can even say you'll have a state court; we can send someone back to the prosecutor. But you mustn't be personally offended. The more aggression and personal attacks in politics, the more behaviors we'll have. So the more we don't respect each other, the more we have contempt for each other, the more people who will look at us will come to all of us with this contempt. And that's our job to... but I can assure you, your professor, that no regulations or regulations can be established. None. It is only up to us whether this dispute, which we will have on TV, on the platform, in each of these Chambers which we represent, i.e. in the Seym and in the Senate, will be a really good example for our colleagues, for Poles and Poles. But I would like, since you have doubts, to appeal for one thing, Professor, right here. Because, like I said, you inspired me very much. Well, any regulatory change that limits freedom, the immunity of a parliamentarian, is wrong. No matter who's in charge. As you know, Professor, I've been a member of the opposition many times and I've seen what's going on, but nobody's ever seen it happen. Although I've been really hard on words. He didn't rule me out. No one ever silenced me, always let me finish my speech, even when it was very harsh. And I also remember that when I was in the governing club and when we were choosing Marshal Cimoszewicz, then the former Prime Minister, for the function of Marshal of the Sejm, there were very sharp attacks also on the part of the Law and Justice or the Civic Platform, but I do not remember that at that time anyone dared to exclude anyone from the proceedings. Because then the dispute was important, the dispute about the shape of the state, the shape of the marshal's function, who would perform this function. And I'm asking you today for what I asked for in my first speech. We're the ones who actually get immunity, and we have the opportunity not to be afraid to talk. And the fact that I can see Professor Zarin today, who I've seen more on TV than I've seen here in these benches, just talk and disagree with him. That's what immunity gives me. That I'm not afraid to speak here and talk about difficult things. And I will repeat this once again, fellow Members, because so I would like to address the whole House: even if we are wrong many times on this platform and sometimes say foolish things, but this time we will be right and this time we will lead this case, which will prove important, it is worth having this immunity and it is worth having this freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u108	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska. Can we make an appointment to close the list of speakers, because that's how we all... [[We'll see about that.]] [[Yeah, maybe somebody's gonna want to answer me.]] For the first time or the second time? Second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u109	I just want to get Senator Żaryn's attention that these points don't change here, which allow you to punish someone who, for example, doesn't. grossly violates the principle of mutual respect or something like that. That's not what we're talking about here. The only change, Ladies and Gentlemen, which has appeared here, is to introduce a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm. I wouldn't see that violating seriousness is some kind of hate speech or something. No, hate speech will still be allowed to marshals or rule boards to punish. And I'm only calling for us to defend ourselves against this violation of seriousness, because it can just affect our seriousness that we're bringing in something like this. And, like I said, if we did, and so far we haven't, for some marshal without a sense of humor, it's gonna be a really dangerous recipe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u110	Another senator's on the list. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to take a break at 1:00. [[Then you'll call it a break.]] We'll be back at 2:00. We have two consecutive points from the Sejm and a very long recess for the committee meeting. The votes are scheduled for late at night, but I think we'll be here by Saturday. So you can do well, but let's respect each other too, because in a moment you will come to me and ask why we vote at night, why we stay on Saturday... [[The votes will be after 2:00, Mr. Marshal.]] No, no votes at 2:00. We still have two unattended points... [[But the committees...]] ...and there will be a very important bill from the Sejm. We'll vote at least late at night. [[What very important bill?]] The Roads Act. Mr. Senator Jackowski... [[These most important committee meetings have already been held.]] Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to reflect on this point, however, on the question of our interpellations, which in fact have a different legal formula, because they are called statements, are being conducted on the basis of the rules of the High House, but in fact have no justification or legal authority. I am aware that there is a difficulty because the Sejm, by its very nature, also has control functions over the government apparatus and, therefore, the interpellation institution, which is entitled to Members, is boundless, i.e., it is possible to make as many interpellations as it considers appropriate, and its volume is not limited, as it is extremely important if there are documents to be attached. By the way, our statements are short-lived because we have a limit of 5 minutes that we have at the end of the meeting. Therefore, I would like to appeal to the High House, and especially to the Legislative Committee, but also to the Rules of Procedure Committee, maybe to the petition committee. I don't know anymore... In any case, to propose an amendment to the law in this respect. I am not saying now, at the moment, because this is not possible from a legislative point of view and it would go beyond the scope of the law that we are considering. But should it not be considered and clarified that the powers attached to the implementation of the mandate of a Member are identical to those of the Senator's mandate and enable the institution to fully implement the statement which is currently in place? Here, like I said, it's mostly about volume. If one of us has a complicated case and refers with some statement or senate interpellation to some office, to an institution, to a ministry, to some state body, then it would be necessary to add documents to it. Yeah, but a short five-minute statement. In particular, if the case is, as it were, decorated with quite long correspondence or exchange of views, or need some expertise to do so. It's limiting us to a certain extent. And then... I often talk about it with my constituents, who are surprised that statements are so short-lived, they're actually pretty slogany. 'Cause there's no way, I'd say, the rule book, that they have a wider form. Therefore, it is simply my call to the High House to encourage ladies and gentlemen of the Senators to take a legislative initiative in this area, which would be our own initiative, the Senate, of course, later we would address it to the Sejm, hoping that such an amendment to the act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator will be in line with the expectations of transparency, but also on the powers of parliamentarians to control the powers of the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u112	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been tabled by Senator Borusewicz and Senator Rotnicka, as well as Senators Dowhan, Pociej and Florek. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. [[Voice from the room: No, no, it's Members...]] [[Voice from the room: No, no, there was no government.]] As proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism and the Law on security of mass events. The text of the Act is contained in print No 672, and the report of the Commission In print No 672 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u113	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I was honoured to present a report on the work of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which took place on 4 December 2017, on the provision of an opinion on the Act amending the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism and the Law on the security of mass events. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental objective of the law, as indicated in the parliamentary draft of this law, is to eliminate the question of interpretation arising from the current regulations and to introduce rules enabling municipalities to better implement the objectives of the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism, which is to limit the availability of alcoholic beverages. I would like to point out that the Member, the representative of the applicants, Mr Szynkowski, presented to us during the committee's meeting a project which is really inspired by the local authorities from the bottom up. According to the information he gave at the committee's meeting, a number of local authorities have reported a problem of impreciseness and, so to speak, the need to supplement the legislation in view of the fact that these are the expectations of local governments and, in some cases, of society. As far as the matter of the law is concerned, the law amends and modeles three key issues. The first issue that governs the amendment is the possibility that, as the applicant pointed out... The word "possibility" is a key element of this law. This law does not impose any obligations on local authorities, it merely gives the possibility to establish quantitative limits for municipal units in terms of the number of points of sale of alcohol, also in the territory of individual municipalities' auxiliary units, i.e. villages, districts or settlements. This is the first element of the amendment. The second part of the amendment is the part concerning the possibility for the municipality to restrict the night sale of alcoholic beverages intended for consumption outside the place of sale. There's talk of nighttime between 10:00 and 6:00 a.m. The third element of the amendment of this law is the clarification or attempt to clarify, by means of a general clause, the definition of a public place. In the current law through a public place... this prohibition includes streets, squares and parks, with the exception of places for drinking alcohol, alcoholic beverages at the point of sale of these beverages. Another element of the amendment of this law is the sealing of the definition of categories of entities which used impreciseness of the rules, and specifically the so-called ones. catering, which means catering services. It has often been the case that operators of this type of activity have benefited from a legal gap which allowed them to sell alcoholic beverages without a one-off concession, which is required during mass events in municipalities. As far as further elements of the Act are concerned, the provision related to the issue of alcohol sales and the issue of licences is a regulation which, in addition to the maximum number of permits within the municipality, in fact, governs the order of granting of these licences where the limit is exhausted. The authorisation will first be granted taking into account the criterion of the maximum distance at which the sale of alcoholic beverages is to take place from the nearest operating point of sale of alcoholic beverages, calculated by the shortest route of access via a public road. As regards the vacathio legis of this law, according to the submission of the Members who came to us, the Act is to enter into force on 1 January 2018. Representatives of the Polish Trade and Distribution Organisation were present at the committee meeting, who also sent a written opinion to the committee before the meeting. In general, the representatives of this organisation, both in their opinion and in their position at the committee's meeting, advocated that the number of alcohol licences available should be withdrawn from further restrictions. Discussion took place during the committee meeting. The senators have asked both the applicant and the Minister here present to the King. They received answers to these questions, comprehensive answers. During the committee meeting, Mr Szynkowski asked the committee to adopt two amendments. The necessity of their introduction was noticed after the law came out of the Sejm. The first amendment really concerns the clarification of the wording of the article. 1 point 2 of the Act. The aim is to clarify the rules on the operation of the so-called "action." beer gardens. This is a matter of derogation that can be applied. The second amendment, which was addressed to the committee by the applicant Member, concerns the possibility for the municipality to apply the derogation. Here is the issue of outdoor and local events, which are organized occasionally. Both of these amendments were taken over by President Andrzej Spider. Another doubt that was raised during the meeting... In fact, the sole doubt of the Legislative Bureau was related to the matter of the vacathio legis law. The rigid deadline of 1 January 2018, which results from the parliamentary project, was in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau... Well, there was a threat to the statutory constitutional terms of the President's signing of the bill, the work of the Sejm and the Senate. There was doubts as to whether the relevant deadlines would be respected here. Therefore, during the committee meeting, Senator Florek tabled an amendment extending the vacathio legis law until 1 January 2019. I have tabled an amendment that conflicted with Senator Flork's amendment, and I have proposed a deadline of 30 days from the date of the bill, which is to extend the vacathio legis to 30 days. During the vote, the committee welcomed the amendment concerning the extension of the vacathio legis, changing the deadline to 30 days from the date of publication of the law. The two amendments that I mentioned earlier, taken over by President Spider during the committee meeting, were accepted by the committee. During the committee's deliberations there was, apparently, one more amendment, Mr Flork, but it did not receive the approval of the committee. In conclusion, I ask the High House to adopt the law in a version submitted and positively approved by the committee, i.e. three amendments that I had discussed earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u114	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u115	Mr. Senator, I have a few questions for you about this. I remember that the volunteer fire department once received permission to sell alcohol during playgrounds. How is it regulated right now? Is this permit still in force? That's the first question. The second question concerns an amendment to the Article. Point 12 (6) which refers to the need for the municipalities to consult with the garrison commanders. Is that... I know that in military structures you need to consult, e.g. as regards the course of road or rail routes. But tell me why, let's assume, when a municipality, a big city, which is a municipality... Why should the military have an impact on alcohol sales? [[Voice from the room: Dominating everywhere.]] So many questions. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u116	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u117	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, when it comes to voluntary firefighters, they are not, so to speak, directly covered by this regulation, i.e. in principle, nothing changes in the scope of TSOs' permits under the law. There's just one thing... As I said at the outset, I signaled, one of the objectives of the law was to introduce a general clause on the prohibition of drinking alcohol in public places. These public places are actually undefined until the end, because there is no single legal act that directly defines it. There were controversies here and there were controversies all the time. Depending on the authority that considered the issues, the assessment of the city guard, police, courts as well. - about what to consider to be a public place. Well, as far as I'm concerned, voluntary firefighters operate in the form of associations and probably areas where voluntary firefighters are located are the areas where these associations have legal authority, i.e. they manage these areas. Can this be considered a public place? To be honest, I don't know whether this is a public place or not, as it is with an association-managed area. But, as I said before, this law does not directly regulate, so to speak, the sales activity on the basis of CSR permits. Moreover, as I mentioned at the outset, the key word for this law is "possibly." So the council of the municipality can He doesn't have to. So, basically, in terms of already granted permits, nothing in this bill... This bill doesn't say anything, it doesn't impose, it doesn't impose. There is, of course, a question of the deadline for the municipalities' councils to adopt new resolutions, except that they can adopt resolutions on the content of the existing ones. Now I don't remember which article says it, I can find it. As for your second question, Mr. Marshal, these are opinions regarding... Oh, about the first question: it wasn't, as I said, discussed at the committee meeting. There was no information on this case, nor was anyone asked for this information. The matter from your second question was not the subject of a committee meeting either. So when it comes to garrisons... Honestly, I don't know if the Minister will be able to. Because the law was not a government project, it answered this question, what is the justification here, what arguments caused the provision concerning consultation with garrisons, if there are garrisons in the commune, and what led the applicants in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u118	Thank you very much. I'm ordering a recess until 2:00 p.m. After the break... [[I was asking...]] Mr. Marshal, we're sitting here till tonight, so you'll still have time. It's time to take a break until 2:00. And communications. Senator Secretary...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u119	High Izbo, the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of the adjournment in room 179. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 59 to 14 minutes 06]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u120	High Izbo, resume. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism and the Law on security of mass events. I would like to remind you that the report was presented by the rapporteur of the committee, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, prior to the interruption of the session. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski, then Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka and Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u121	It is known that the law we are working on comes from distant times, and therefore the wording of some provisions is also from distant times, e.g. that the authorities will seek to reduce the consumption of high-interest drinks for low-interest drinks. The reality has changed so that today it is the other way around, today it is consumed, especially by young people, low-percent drinks, and high-percent drinks are not consumed. But my question is something else. Have there been voices that in the regulations concerning sales outlets, hours, there is also a clear statement that on Sundays and public holidays alcohol is not sold in commercial establishments?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u122	Thank you very much. I'll ask Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka for a question. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u123	Mr. Rapporteur, I have a brief question. Are there modified entries in this Act covering restrictions on mass events? [[Again, please. What?]] Are there any records that modify restrictions on the sale of alcohol at mass events?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u124	And I'll ask you to ask the Marshal's question. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u125	I have a similar question, only about a narrower range. Does anything change when it comes to mass events, like games?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u126	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll answer the questions in order. As regards the question of Senator Rulewski, this issue was not the subject of the committee's meeting in terms of, as it were, redirecting or reducing the consumption of low-percent alcohol, which is now more popular than it was before. At the very beginning of the committee meeting, the Minister pointed out that we actually have a problem. It is not that only the expectations of municipalities and local governments are... Also from the information published by the World Health Organization, WHO, it appears that alcohol consumption in our country is increasing. It's not some kind of jumping growth, but it's a steady growth. And here, so to speak, legal action is also aimed at reducing alcohol consumption in some way. Maybe I'll tell you what I didn't say, and what's included in the explanatory memorandum of this bill's applicants, designers... In fact, the law is addressed, of course, to municipalities where such a problem arises. So it's about communes with auxiliary... The point is that there can be some areas for the auxiliary units of the municipalities, or permanently, or temporarily excluded from the sale... That's not an option right now. However, the law is also addressed to city centers, where saturation, the volume of alcohol sales is very high, as well as to tourist destinations, where in turn we are dealing with periodic consumption. Councils of localities will also have the possibility, I note, not the obligation, but the possibility of regulation. Anyway, that's what they're asking for. So much for the first question. Question two: will the bill affect mass events? As far as mass events are concerned, it is for sure indirectly, for example, due to the introduction of the so-called provisions. catering sales. This is a limited act. I'm sure some of the entrepreneurs who used the legal gap because it's a form of a legal gap... Others had to have a one-time permit to sell alcohol during mass events, and here was a legal gap, from which some entrepreneurs used and, as a rule, behind the screen of catering activities these events also served. Now they will have to apply for individual permits on general terms, just like other entrepreneurs. That's the part, the answer to that question. As far as mass events are concerned, it is certainly also important to define a public place, which is the general clause. However, at the same time, the law gives municipalities the possibility of periodically withdrawing from the application of the rules in a specific area. This is a record prepared specifically for mass events, which happen occasionally in the commune. And the third question, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, could you remind me of this topic? [[What about the games?]] Oh, the games. The Act does not interfere directly with any sports events. I'm looking for a connection, but I don't think I can find it. I don't think it's gonna have any effect, and it's gonna stay the same as it was, on the same basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u128	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan. And then you're Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I also have a lot of questions prepared for the Minister. Senator rapporteur, was the subject of amending the law as a law that was created in times, one can say remotely, because in 1982, what was rightly pointed out by my colleague Janek Rulewski? Several decades have passed, times have changed, conditions have changed, customs have changed. I don't think that patching this bill is good. Have you even discussed the subject of a comprehensive revision of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u130	Thank you very much. You're Senator Marian the Sheriff. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. On the roads of the county or commune through Poland, we see such a picture: a grocery store, and in front of a grocery store, now often under an umbrella, sitting and drinking beer our citizens. Does this bill change anything in this regard? I'm asking because it's not like drinking alcohol at the diners. Does this bill change anything in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u132	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the senator of the rapporteur a question? [[No, I have to see the minister.]] Oh, to the minister, right? [[He's still a marshal.]] [[I have another question.]] Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u133	Mr. Senator, in this general... I'm talking about art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, that the municipality may determine a separate number of redundancies... [[Permissions.]] Yeah, permits. I'm sorry. ...Authority permits for individual municipal support units. You were talking about the state, and I'd like to ask you about the neighborhood. [[Within the commune.]] [[It's the same thing.]] Within the city. Is that also... [[Within, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u134	Yeah, these are the units, too. Councils of districts, councils of settlements, settlements are auxiliary units of municipalities. [[But I don't...]] If they are, of course. [[Will there be an opinion?]] Yes, yes, it is stated in the Act that these authorities will give an opinion on the resolutions of the municipal council prior to their adoption. [[Good. Thank you very much.]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, because I must have responded out of order. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u135	Good. [[I still have a quick question.]] There you go. But to the rapporteur? [[Yeah, yeah.]] There you go. Another senator and we'll ask for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u136	As a person... [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] Excuse me, Miss Marshal. As a person who doesn't know much about alcoholic beverages, I'm going to ask you a question like that. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (1) is that the authorisations in question are issued separately for the following beverages... And here's point 1: to 4.5%. alcoholic strength by volume and by volume of beer, and point 2: above 4.5% up to 18% alcohol content (except beer). There's still, as far as I know, a non-alcoholic beer. And if there are beers with a power greater than 4.5% ? [[They're ……]] [[Voices from the O.R.: They're here.]] They're here. So somehow you'd have to write it down because it's an expression of 4.5%. alcohol content and beer... What kind of beer? I think we'd have to add something here to clarify it, because it's unclear.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u137	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll answer one at a time... First, I'm going to answer Senator Dowhan. Yes, the applicant... the applicant's representative... During the discussion of the bill there was this thread that we realize that this law is already an old law. And it's kind of a form... Mr. Senator used the phrase that this is a form of patching this bill. Oh, no. It is a form of amendment, amendment of a law, which generally goes in the right direction in the assessment of all committee representatives. There were various comments on the details, on the individual entries, but in general the direction of the changes seems to be appropriate. As to whether or not they're being processed, so to speak, legal acts, or a completely new act is being planned... As I recall, this issue was not raised at the committee meeting. But I think the Minister will be able to answer that question, Senator. [[Thank you.]] [[Thank you...]] Oh, and the answer to another question relating to the district road. Senator Senator Sheriff asked that question. Undoubtedly, such a district road is a public place. The change is about the general clause, which means the general clause speaks about public places. They're probably gonna... and that's what happened at the committee meeting. The point is, in the bill... there's still no precise notion of a public place. So that there will probably be interpretation, there will be case law, there will be situations where different bodies, e.g. in different places. City guards or police will try to interpret such records in some way. It's gonna happen. We can't avoid that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u139	Thank you very much. You're a marshal, and then you're Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u140	Mr Senator rapporteur, referring to your statement that these support bodies of the municipalities will give an opinion... Well, I've been looking for this... I'd ask for an indication of where it was written. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by 3a says that the authorising authority issues after obtaining the basic opinion of the municipal committee the solution to the alcoholic problems of the municipal committee... [[Voice from the room: On this committee they sit...]] No... I've been looking here for this report on the opinions of the Auxiliary Councils... of the communes and the Councils, but I haven't found it. I'd like you to point it out to me. That's the first question. And the second very short question. It's about weddings... Will anything change in this case? It's just...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u141	Thank you very much. [[May I?]] [[Is this a ban... because some weddings are a party for a few hundred people. Is this a mass event?]] You're asking the question, Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u142	Thank you very much. I also wanted to ask if there was a problem in the committee discussion regarding the promotion of low-interest alcohols. Because you know, beer can be advertised, for example. Cider can't be advertised. Often beer has a higher alcoholic strength than cider. And we know very well that we are a tycoon in the production of apples and it would be good to use it also for the production of low-alcoholic beverages in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u143	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? I don't see any calls. There isn't. Good. Then I'll ask for an answer, and then we'll ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Maybe I'll try to answer Senator Rotnicka's question about those alcohol records up to 4.5%. , more than 4.5% up to 18%, but with the exception of beer, and more than 18%. To be honest, with this question, you surprised me a little bit, and I don't know what to say. There are, for sure, beers with an alcoholic strength higher than 4.5% on the market. They'll probably be in this group from 4.5%. up to 18%. And it says, except for the beer... I think the Minister will be able to lighten the record a little bit. That wasn't the question at the committee meeting. Anyway, the senator was in the meeting, too. [[Yeah, but...]] I'm curious about that record, too. Second thing. Mr. Marshal, when it comes to weddings... This law does not change anything, i.e. it only clarifies the definition of the catering entity. She says she closes it, limits it to the question of organizing events more of a closed type. There have been times when people who were catering at weddings, based on this activity, due to a legal gap or imprecise legal records, were able to handle mass events on non-competitive terms, because their competitors who wanted to handle these events and serve alcohol had to have one-off permits, payable. And those guys used that legal gap. So he closes here... as for the wedding itself, this bill doesn't... About the units... [[Auxiliary units and feedback...]] ...assistance and opinion, Mr. Marshal, I assure you, it's in this piece of legislation. At the committee meeting... I'm going through it right now... The Minister will answer. The Minister raises his hand, confirming that he will give... I'm going through it real quick... I know this thread was coming up at the committee meeting, so I'm quite sure it's in this bill. And the question of Senator Spokesman about the promotion. Well, not that matter... This law does not regulate the advertising of alcoholic beverages. There wasn't a speech committee meeting on the subject. I think that's also a good signal for the Minister to make some regulations... Because, in fact, this market is, I'd say, unregulated for advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u145	Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Minister Zbigniew the King, Deputy Minister of Health, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister. Come on up to the podium. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to clarify a few points, address the doubts raised during this session and, above all, I would like to thank Senator Grabowski for adopting the role of rapporteur... [[Senator's voice.]] ...senator of the rapporteur. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this project is parliamentary, and therefore my answers may not exactly correspond to the idea contained in the draft law. Why don't I start with... I wrote down these questions so that I could answer them one at a time. Senator Dowhan was talking about patching the bill. The 1992 Act is... Well, a whole different world, a whole different reality, but we see it. We also see the great strength of people who are very opposed to any regulation when it comes to alcohol consumption in our country. During this brief time of my work in the government I can see, you can say every week various kinds of resistance and various kinds of influences to not change something. The bill will be amended at least several times Depending on what the current needs are. And here I'm going to address the issue of advertising because that's the question here. In this act we do not touch the issue of advertising, while we are preparing a government project, which includes. refers to the advertising of beer. The possibility of beer advertising was restored several years ago. We were originally banned from advertising, but he didn't last long. In fact, it remained only until parliamentary work, you can say, and in the case of beer it was excluded. I believe that this has happened with some kind of social damage, because the World Health Organization, institutions that professionally deal with the removal of the population of nations from, as if they were risky drinking alcohol, indicate that there are 3 elements that need to be taken into account: physical availability, economic accessibility and advertising, i.e. promotion. We as a government support this law strongly, because it refers to this element of potential restriction of physical access. As the rapporteur put it, the municipality which receives this law is informed that alcohol is banned in public places, except for exceptions, may determine these exceptions in different places, depending on the need or situation of the local municipality. About these roads and shops, because that's about the answer to that question... If the municipality does not allow alcohol consumption under the shop, it is public space. As I remember, the Member at the committee meeting also presented in the Sejm that this solution was inspired by the situation of local local self-government units, where it was very difficult to define a public place, because we do not have such a definition. The specific case that has been considered is the case of Vistula Boulevards, which are not by definition either by road or by road or by any other element, which would mean, as if a clear ban on consumption in their area. And the result of the entire judicial procedure, the person who wanted to consume alcohol on these boulevards, caused certain perturbations. Marshal Borusewicz, sir. As far as the location of these organs is concerned, it's in the article. 1 amendment concerning Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 This is on page 1 of this project, Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Council of the municipality shall, before adopting the resolutions referred to in paragraph 5, say: It consults the municipality's subsidiary unit. So this is the organ that's just giving an opinion. And settlements, and settlements, and neighborhoods have an impact on not having another point of sale installed in their territory. And here's the digression that doesn't concern this bill. In Poland, it is estimated that there are less than 300 people per point, and the European average is 1 thousand people per point, while in Scandinavia it is still organized differently. Therefore, this is a problem that we should try to deal with in some way, indeed this is sometimes a huge problem. And the last of the questions I've had about those percentages of alcohol. Indeed, there is more than 4.5 percent beer. It's not like that, there's a lot of these. It's hard to call this drink. They have more than 10%. Yeah, but they are, so to speak, on the same basis aced. In this bill, we don't really touch it, but I understand that the senator has been paying attention to a law that has been in force since 1992. This is the scope for determining excise duty, as exactly as it is written there. So beer, which has 12%. It is also subject to excise duty for beer, which is the lower. And that's probably also an element that's worth considering, so to speak, on the occasion of all kinds of changes. To conclude, I will say that the problem of drinking alcohol in Poland is, regardless of the fact that we are actually just slightly above the EU average when it comes to consumption per capita. But if we do different calculations, for example. the exclusion of people who are already, so to speak, in the post-alcoholic phase, who are abstinents, but sick... Well, the last time I heard from the director of the State Agency against Alcoholism... [[The National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems.]] [[PARPA.]] ...that we're chasing the Russians in this case, and sometimes we're ahead of them. And I'm here. I would also like to refer to the first two resolutions referred to in this room, which fill me with great pride that we were able and during the war, and bear witness before the war... Before the war, alcohol consumption per capita was 1.5 l per head according to records, at the moment 9.6 l. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a place where we really should counter together... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u147	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Dowhan is the first person to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u148	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question because I wonder all the time where the ministry wants to go. On the one hand, do we have a drinking problem with people? On the other hand, I would also think of people who do not have this problem. I'd think of those people who want to match Western society, sit at dinner, drink good wine, treat themselves moderately, as most people do. In a dignified, moderate way, he consumes alcohol. And I wouldn't want this work to get us through some small group of people, because it's not going in millions, it's done a general injury. Is the Ministry looking at only one angle, for addicts and the fact that we're supposed to fight... Because how are we supposed to fight and from this point of view... Then please prohibit sales, as is the case in the Islamic countries, and there will be a problem. Or does he want to balance it in such a way as to respect people who consume alcohol in a civilized, normal way and want to eat it and be able to buy it also, not search or order abroad to satisfy those who have a drinking problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u149	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u150	I do not really understand this question in the context of this bill. I mean, the ministry is in a position of general public health. There are a number of areas in public health where we need to fight decisively. The first area is tobacco. And this is where the debate has already been. The other is alcohol. And it's not just the risky one. Those people who ate risk alcohol in Poland It's not a small group. It's 7%. People who have a drinking problem, which means... [[And 93% are gone.]] Okay, I'll also refer to the information from PARPA, and basically my visit to the agency and look at the problem in the context of a man who's addicted to alcohol. That's not his problem, because that's the least of his problems in all of this, so to speak. A sick reference. This is a problem for a partner, a wife, a husband, a problem for children, a problem for neighbours, and a problem in Poland that we can't deal with for years, which is a drinking driver. These are the areas to be remembered, simply not supporting any restrictive solutions... As for consumption similar to consumption in the European Union, we belong to a group of countries in which alcohol is used differently than in countries... I am talking about Scandinavia, the north-eastern regions of Europe in relation to the south-western regions. These populations have a different consumption of alcohol. And it's definitely different. Alcohol consumption is decreasing throughout the OECD group of countries. It can be said that the market is saturated and different parameters are generally reduced in different countries, so to speak, constellations. In 2016, one country was an exception. It was us. Perhaps each of us would like to function in a manner similar to that of a middle European from the West, but when it comes to alcohol consumption, we do not succeed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u151	Is there something the senator would like to ask you? Please. [[No, no. Next question.]] Next question, good. Now you're asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm curious about Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6, which provides that in the locations where military units are deployed, this shall be determined after consultation of the relevant garrison commanders. I know what this is about. However, I draw attention to the fact that Warsaw is a garrison. So in all of Warsaw, wherever these points arise, you will need to get approval from the garrison boss. It's gotta be... I understand what's going on here, but I think it's going too far. Because the garrison is in Warsaw, in Gdańsk, in Poznań, in Łódź. And in the whole area of the municipality of Warsaw or the municipality of Łódź are such permits to be assessed by the commander of the garrison? It's not like it's a strategic issue about a military strategy. I understand that matters concerning railway lines or roads should be within the competence of the garrison, the Minister of Defence, etc. If someone wanted to introduce restrictions here, they should do it in a different way, offer some distance from the military unit, write about one distance or that distance. Why don't you explain what's going on here, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u153	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u154	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[There's something else. I'd understand if it was the opinion of the police garrison commander. The police are also divided into garrisons. I'd understand that. But the army?]] Mr. Marshal, this is a paragraph that I say we are not touching this amendment. It is in the law that is currently in force, in the old part, in the article. 12 pcs. In places where military units are deployed, the number of points of sale of alcoholic beverages intended for consumption outside the place of sale and at the place of sale and the location of the places of sale, administration and consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be determined by the municipal council after consulting the relevant garrison commanders. That's the law that's in force right now. [[Minister, I'm asking you this because in our comparative prints, we have such prints - it's fattened as if it were a new change.]] No, no. It's in the current law. There must be some mistake here. [[You're sure, aren't you?]] I haven't seen comparative prints, but I assure you it's in the current law. Indeed, Mr. Dowhan's suggestion to make one bill... If we're ready for this, I'll probably be somewhere else by now. I will be happy to support this because I have just been to PARPA and I have seen how harmful alcohol is, how much harm it can bring to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u155	Thank you. You're asking Senator Florek another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u156	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, because, so to speak, we are now coming down with this bill, as far as these opinions are concerned, as far as the auxiliary units are concerned, I would just like to clarify two things so that I can be sure. As for the opinion of the auxiliary unit, well, this is the case when we're talking about permits and these hours from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.... Because the bill states: And now I have questions and doubts. Because when it comes to ancillary units, they're executives and resolution bodies. So there's the council, there's the district board, there's the district board, there's the village council meeting. And that's unpretentious. So I understand you won't need any advice. Villages or rural councils should be called for time etc. It is not added here, but I understand that it should be understood that it is the opinion of the executive body, the chief executive, of the board. I understand that's a question. a little not to the Minister, rather to the Members who made this bill, but I think that's the way it should be understood. And then there's the other thing, and it's also about clarification. It shall be prohibited to consume alcoholic beverages in public places, except for those intended for this purpose. And now these places are destined. By whom? Is this a council resolution? Well, I understand it's hard... As for the definition of the public place itself, we say: life will show. But except for the places that are meant to be... Well, then who's gonna define this place? I understand, I suppose in that case the council of the municipality should appoint this place. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? 'Cause it's not... Or should I say, for example. add: to this a resolution of the commune council. Then there wouldn't be any doubt. [[There you go...]] As for the garrison, what are you talking about? I don't know, I'll see what it was like in a minute. Because in this law, however, this paragraph is in this amendment. Six, which clearly speaks of garrisons. And yesterday, the senators discussed this issue in terms of trade on Sundays. And it's clear there that the garrison is a large unit and therefore this recipe, this mouth. 6 needs to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u157	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u158	I, Mr. Senator, will present the bill to you specifically with this garrison rule. And I think it will somehow explain the doubts that I didn't bring about or not caused by us. As far as these representatives of local authorities are concerned, from what I listened to during the meeting of the committee and the work in the Sejm, it appears that these matters are governed by the statutes and organisational regulations, i.e. in the statutes and in the organizational regulations. This law does not interfere with the competence of the municipalities. So that's the element that I don't think we have to think about right now. [[And this...]] [[Question...]] [[It was still a question about these public places...]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] [[Except where it's meant to be. Who are these designated places? Is this supposed to be a council resolution? Those places where you can eat. 'Cause there's gonna be a lot of complications here.]] Well, that's the issue of council resolutions. Because we're talking about a radical change of scenery. Mr. Senator was talking about that store on the road. At the moment, there's no definition of whether this is a public place or not. According to this bill, this is a public place. If such a store requests permission to consume alcohol, it must at the same time determine that it wants to have these 2 umbrellas and 2 tables. And the council of the municipality makes that decision. If there's too many of those shops by the road, let's say, too much, then we're limiting it... i.e. I hope the municipalities are going to limit it, because it's not really us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u159	Senator Senator Sheriff's asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u160	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In fact, I would like to ask a very specific question: will the municipality's council agree to be able to eat beer under the shop? Because from what the Minister has said, I understand that this is what the council of the municipality will determine. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u161	Yes. [[She's gonna decide?]] Right. [[In front of the store, right?]] In front of the store. [[Because the store isn't allowed. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u162	Senator Dowhan now has a voice. [[Voice from the room: He's busy.]] Senator Major. [[I am, Mr. Marshal...]] That's another one. You're welcome, Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are in such a situation that the system of solving alcohol problems has been creating a State Agency for the solving of alcohol problems for more than 20 years. This system is quite extensive, we have municipal alcoholic problem resolution committees that prepare programmes every year and have resources. It is sure that, so to speak, a very rare case in our system, but these committees actually have resources. So that's one side, which is like what works. On the other hand, we have information that the alcohol problem in Poland is not decreasing, but on the contrary The consumption of alcohol is increasing because such recent data are available. So I have two questions. I am very pleased that this amendment of the law is even appearing, because it is as if it is going to be a restriction, but above all: will this end with the 1982 amendment of the law, or are there any further changes planned which will result in a more real impact on this reality, mainly the influence of local authorities, because it is there that this act of creation and, like, the programming of prevention in the local environment? So are there any changes planned in the system of functioning of the municipal alcoholic crisis resolution committees, the construction of a system for assessing the quality of these programmes and spending funds that are spent for different purposes? I ask, because in my opinion and in the opinion of some experts, however, they do not have the expected effect, since alcohol consumption is increasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u164	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u165	Thank you, thank you very much. It's actually like the senator said the money for this system is. We estimate that a year, i.e. We know exactly that this is PLN 780 million a year. This is the amount allocated in municipalities to problems related to solving alcohol problems. Is this system working or not? Well, I think that since this law has been in force to limit alcohol consumption, let's say it works a little bit, but not quite as much as we'd like. Because there are countries that had much higher alcohol consumption than Poland, e.g. Italy, which has gone below this amount of alcohol in conversion: it is 9.6 liters, and in them it is about 7.5 liters at the moment. So that's something we're definitely doing. This is the beginning, isn't it? At the moment, we are preparing a government bill of the law, which is after an external consultation. In which we sort of complement this aspect. We also have great support thanks to the Estonian Presidency, which is about to end. It was as if in the second part, but she took up the subject of alcohol and all sorts of elements related to it. What we are pleased about, mostly dealing with public health, is that the next Presidency is also taking up this subject, so perhaps it will be too soon that we will simply have a directive of the EU standardising a certain type of matter, levels of alcohol consumption or, at least, issues related to these elements that are most affecting it. I remind you that we basically rotate around 3 elements. The first element is economic accessibility, the second is physical availability, and the third is advertising. This government project will be about advertising, so that we will meet here, in this room, certainly some times and on these topics we will talk about. We are waiting for results, well, also for this Estonian Presidency, but... It is simply that we should approach this problem uniformly in neighbouring countries, because we also do not want to make a move that will cause, for example. flooding us with German or Czech beer. So that these are the things that we need to consider, and that's how we approach this topic. It's just that... In general, we have a problem with the area called addiction, and this area is included in the entire reform of psychiatric care. At the moment, we are finishing preparations for piloting adult psychiatric care, we are already very advanced in children's and youth psychiatry, and right at the beginning of next year we also want to address the programme or solutions related to addiction, including alcohol.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u166	You're asking Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u167	Minister, I'd like to continue with this thread that Senator Majer started. Indeed, after many years of such medium-level stabilisation there has been quite a sharp increase in alcohol consumption in Poland. Have you even defined the cause of this growth and whether there are any conclusions or ways of countering... Because unfortunately, we are again at the forefront in Europe in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u168	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u169	We are at EU average level, this EU average This is 9 l, we have 9,6 l, consumption has increased from 9,5 l to 9,6 l in 2016. The only thing that really grieves is that we are just the only country that doesn't fall. The reason is increased consumption... Of course, the promotion of alcohol, which only concerns beer, is, but as any of us can say to each other, enter the store and... At the moment alcohol is treated as bread, butter, milk, because it is located. As if we do not have standards for restricting access to alcohol to anyone, each stand just looks like this, which is probably also related to the admission of a little advertising, I think there are many elements involved. Of course, we are not satisfied that we are at the level of the European average country. I was talking about a prewar indicator here, it's probably an interpretation impossible to achieve, I know, but it's just, if it's going to be a golden standard, it's worth it, so to speak, going back to it and trying to modify it in this direction...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u170	You're asking Senator Dowhan a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u171	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask where in all this, if there are these different situations that you mentioned and which you want to prevent, are the city guards, the police, where there are services that should take care of order and order, especially in such places. That's my first question. Two. This may not be entirely related to it, but I would ask you to indicate what expenditure from the state budget is being spent today on combating alcoholism and, on the other hand, on excise and tax revenues. Because excise duty is not only an influence, it is also a tax on income, from companies or brands of alcohols that are sold.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u172	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u173	Service, city guard and police, they're implementing the law. If we have undefined space in the form of public space This is the example I was talking about, the case of the person who pushed through all of them, so to speak, legislative levels to prove that the boulevard is not defined as public space... We want to move away from this type of diwagation and make it clear: we must not go beyond the places where the commune council permits. And this is the element that, I think, will bring a reflection on the one hand, because the commune authorities are also chosen... Of course, no one cares about simply promoting alcoholism, at least I hope so, but it is much easier to grant a concession, and it is even easier to grant this concession with the possibility of drinking alcohol next to the store, which at the moment will be a little more difficult, because such a resolution must be adopted, and then, I hope, some sense in that, so to speak, the spirit will come... I have information in front of me that we have 340,000 treated when it comes to addiction. I'm gonna have to look for the amounts to give. And when it comes to spending, we have 18 million in the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, it's like the budget that the agency owns, plus 760 million that the municipalities have to deal with alcohol problems. Therefore, the measures appear to be relatively large. I agree with the signal or voice of one of your senators that we simply have to measure the effectiveness of these measures. We have to think in this way at all: what do we want to achieve with certain money? And this is where the public health team is headed, which has just been called up and is due to have its first meeting next week. And this is one of the most important areas in terms of health aspects. Here's the cost of treating these patients: 411 million. And I don't know if we're gonna have excise revenue, because it's just excise duty being allocated to all three categories of legislation, and it goes to the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u174	The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u175	Thank you very much. I'm not sure that question's been asked here any more... Alternatively, I would like to ask for clarification. Namely, raising in sobriety and combating alcoholism are, of course, great and important priorities. But don't you get the impression that some of the rules are made somewhere just to make them impossible? I would also like to ask your opinion on what will be, as I understand it, within the authority of the municipality, i.e. the possibility of restricting sales between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Here is the basic question: will there be any council of the municipality that apologizes for the word Do you dare to introduce such a ban? And will there therefore be any practical interpretation that will make such a record useful, and so will it not become dead? Maybe it's worth pulling out of the dead rules at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u176	I come from Cracow and remember the problems of last year It was rather short, but it was generally related to deciding not to sell alcohol during World Youth Days. And there's probably a lot of places like this in the country. Sopot, as I recall, is also a place where the council makes such decisions. 'Cause we're hoping for consciousness... but we're probably having trouble with some sort of slogan from when we put a ban on advertising with that winking eye. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. And that's the problem. Because in general alcohol is accepted And that's probably why we have so many drivers who are part of the road, under the influence of alcohol. We also have too many accidents in relation to what, I think, should be characterized by such a conscious society. And here, too, we want to influence consciousness, so to speak. I hope that voters will simply verify these advices, which sometimes give their consent in a carefree way. The centers of the city, the big cities, I've cited an example here. Krakow's look is that in principle alcohol can be bought 24/7 every 500 m, because what is so much next store. But I don't think these are the standards we'd like to have. I know that the Cracow Councillors have made some attempts to limit... But it's not easy. This law simply wants to strengthen the signal that from the government's perspective we are going to reduce, reduce the amount of alcohol we consume, and reduce these 7%. That is, the percentage of those, as it was said here, who at risk consume alcohol, because they consume nothing but C2H5OH in different forms.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u177	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. You mentioned some statistics, that is, the number of points of alcohol sales per thousand inhabitants. And it seems that Poland is very high in this ranking, which also shows a certain scale of the problem. I have a question as to whether the Minister has any data and can indicate how this dynamic has increased over time, e.g. the last 10 or 15 years, and as a result. Were they merely considerations, let's call it commercial, business, that is, simply running such points of sale is a profitable activity, or was it due to some liberalisation of the law that was carried out after 2000? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u179	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u180	I'm sure the stats are running the PARPA. I think we'll give you the exact information we need to give the senator, as well as all of you, in writing. These are the things that are worth knowing. There is clearly an economic game here. If I say so, we dealt with certain lobbying groups for increasing sales, we were told this: our shops, such simple neighborhood shops, if they don't have a liquor license, they can't keep up. I wouldn't want us to live in a country where selling alcohol to that shopkeeper allows... I have absolutely nothing against the shopkeeper. Just so we're clear. I'd like us to buy groceries at his store, so he can keep on. Not necessarily with alcohol duty... That's the middle point of what we do.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u181	The question is Senator Andrzej Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to... I think there's been some inaccuracies here. This bill is supposed to eliminate drinking under grocery stores and determine where beer gardens are to be, places to drink alcohol. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Yes, exactly.]] I think she's gonna make it go away so that at night a bunch of young people drink alcohol and pick on women. I think you'll confirm that. That's how I understand this solution... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Exactly, exactly.]] And one question. The PARPA shall report annually on the economic and social impact of alcohol consumption. This $18 million is from the state budget, and this $760 million... That's not what you're spending, it's what you're paying for selling alcohol. So, in fact, this is the money that these alcoholic problem resolution committees are getting from the municipalities, and these are collecting from those who are selling it. It's from these fees, it's not some kind of extra money from the budget. According to PARPA... They used to write in the reports. I haven't noticed that lately. The economic and social costs of alcohol consumption, i.e. the treatment of alcoholics, including the treatment of cirrhosis of the liver and other health effects of alcohol consumption, are about PLN 2 billion and even more than PLN 2 billion. I would like to ask if in the last 3, 4 years this sum estimated by PARPA is increasing or remaining at the same level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u183	She's increasing as the cost of therapy increases. These 2 billion are about the treatment of all the conditions resulting from alcohol consumption. What I was giving concerned the functioning of addiction counseling, and this is the cost of caring for people who, you can say, are healthy about getting back to normal. Although we do know that alcohol sickness is a lifelong disease.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u184	You're asking Senator Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u185	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you this. Drinking is democratizing in the sense that women are drinking more and more. Therefore, we have problems with the drinking of alcohol by pregnant women and with the alcohol syndrome that occurs in children. In an increasing number of children, FAS is found. In this regard, do you, as Ministry, prepare a program to disseminate knowledge? And do you take any other action in this direction to make the public, as well as doctors aware, because it is also a problem that a pregnant woman's drinking is a very serious risk to the child, a threat to this disease, but also one that can cause other conditions?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u186	Thank you very much, Senator, for the question. In the National Health Programme, one of the 6 main objectives is addiction. And there, as part of our three tasks, we also deal with women and the FAS problem, which is this alcohol addiction syndrome in newborns and infants. So that it is conducted in the form of... This is all happening, and we don't really want to build such an additional program because we want to see what the effect of the one is. But we strongly strengthen information campaigns on this subject together with PARPA, but also with others, so to speak, public health teams. So that we're going in that direction as far as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u187	You ask Senator Bogdan Borusewicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u188	Minister, what does consumption look like... i.e. The structure of consumption? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Please?]] What does the structure of consumption look like? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Structure?]] In relation to the 1990s, the mid-1990s, I know, she's changed. The amount of heavy alcohol consumed has decreased, the consumption of beer has increased, and I think wine has also increased. Is this structure still like this, or are the trends different, or is there a tendency again to increase the consumption of strong alcohols? Because in that statistics you gave and to which I refer in my speech, because it's not such a simple comparison of the Italians and us... Is this trend in the structure of consumption, which, I believe, was positive Less strong alcohols Is it still alive or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u189	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u190	He's holding on. We have statistics. About 60%, I think exactly 58%, this beer, then there are strong alcohols, and it's not only vodka, but also spirit drinks, and there's wine in third place. As far as wine is concerned, the consumption of wine, so to speak, has stabilised with regard to spirit drinks, but there is still a slight decrease, while beer consumption is increasing. [[Wine?]] Beer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u191	Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u192	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the bill deals with the question of reducing the number of points of sale and, I believe, this is one of the steps to reduce the problem of alcoholism. But here the problem of municipal alcohol prevention programs has already been raised or discussed. It seems to me, and I have some experience in this matter, because I had the pleasure of being the two terms of office of a small commune, that there we often observe sham actions. Programmes are mandatory, and they are often paper programmes, and financial resources are actually spent on something else. It is possible and relatively easy, because it is enough not to spend this money, they pass as a budget surplus for the next year and can simply be allocated for something else. Sometimes it makes sense because I think it doesn't make sense to spend money forcefully either. But there is a need for actions that are more effective, perhaps some good practices or others. Well, it's hard for me to say at this point what How to effectively promote a certain culture of alcohol consumption or show the risks associated with alcohol consumption. Is the Ministry planning another step in this matter in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u193	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u194	We have some tools. They may not be enough, as it is said, promoted, but in PARPA there is a database of prevention programs to download. Depending on the size of the care population, this can be done differently. We certainly want to increase the amount of information. Something that's quite difficult here or, let's say, not so difficult as it takes time or such an expert level... They're all scientifically verified. So what we're offering goes through all kinds of rungs. In medicine, we call it evidence-based medicine. We're offering something here, and there's a base. We're going in that direction as far as we can. We will strengthen the signals that this is possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u195	Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u196	I promise this will be the last question. I want to take advantage of the Minister's presence. Minister, maybe I'll run away... This is not exactly your role as Minister of Responsible, but you mentioned drunk drivers earlier. It's some kind of plague. That's what we agree on. And, of course, neither I nor any of us are going to sign off on tolerating it. But wasn't that an idea born... This has been discussed for quite some time in various groups, even here in Parliament, but, of course, there is no political courage to change a certain standard by the example of other countries, of course, it is a code of traffic offences. With us, this standard is very low today. In other countries it is 0.5. Like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, There's 0.8 in France, and I think 0.8 in Italy, but 0.5 is the norm. There's actually a lot of drivers coming in. Most busted drivers, maybe 95%. This is due to recent calculations It was on the so-called. Hangover. They get up early in the morning, they still have 0.2. They don't have anything in a minute, but they make drunks out of them. Is the Ministry planning a joint operation with the police here to raise the threshold to 0.5? I think 0.5 is a reasonable border and a European average. That's the first question. My second question is different from alcohol. I don't know if the Minister was in the Senate when we talked about raising excise duties on tobacco products. I pointed out at the time that alcohol, tobacco and cigarettes are treated equally in terms of excise duty alone, but not at the same time in terms of the exchange of these unfortunate excise duties. We have a raise again, and by March, the owners of small shops. This applies especially to the owners of kiosks in small towns. They have to remove the old bands. If they miss a package, they're convicted. It doesn't make any sense. The Minister was supposed to take care of it. If someone buys something correctly with correct excise duty, and in the meantime the stakes change, they should just sell out the old stuff, as is the case with alcohol. And we're gonna roll everything over here, destroy it, order some flags. Well, it's Sisyphus work. It was supposed to go away. This would facilitate the operation of particularly small shops, because large networks will hand the goods back to the manufacturer or to the wholesaler. They're not interested. And a small subject doesn't have the option. At what stage Is that it? Has the Ministry forgotten about this? Or is he gonna go back to that? I'd really like to ask you to take care of this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u197	It's about changing cigarettes, isn't it? [[About putting on a new excise duty if there's an old package.]] This isn't my area at all, but as far as I'm concerned, it's for sale. It's... [[But not everything will sell out.]] To be sold out, i.e. until it's sold out. It's not like that? [[No, until the end of March.]] I can't answer that question. We will generally not attempt to work with the police until we have such a large statistics of alcohol accidents. We're different from Germany. There's one parameter here, and there's another parameter here. Yes? We're not gonna do this until we realize to people that hangover, as the senator said, is also a threat to elevated alcohol levels. This alcohol affects our perception. Alcohol is a psychotoxic factor, so we just react differently. And we certainly will not cooperate in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u198	Are there any more questions? Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to a question asked by Senator Jackowski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a law that deals with two cases: authorisation cases and sales limitation cases from 22.00 to 6.00. As far as the issue of authorisations is concerned, we are talking not only about the whole municipality, but also about auxiliary units. The point is to distribute these permits to the smaller units. It's very right, because when we issue permits for the entire community, that's the problem, and in some places you have to have them. That's in mind. So I think that's a good direction for these permits. As regards the sale of alcohol between 22.00 and 6.00 p.m., this is also where the ancillary units are indicated. Not only the municipality was identified, but also the auxiliary units. There must be a resolution and an opinion of the auxiliary entities, and in the latter case, and in the latter case. And here we know who has to give that opinion. There is only a question about the first one... I have no doubt about the permission, but about these sales restrictions between 10:00 and 6:00 p.m.... although this is an optional matter, it must therefore decide the municipality. It's not an obligation, it's an optional matter. The municipality will either adopt such a resolution and introduce these restrictions or not. On the other hand, we have some associations and the introduction of such hours is in our opinion... We remember what it was like. Perhaps other solutions should be found and such restrictions should not be imposed. I think this is about isolated cases in Poland, cases of certain cities. This also applies to Poznań. It seems to me that this can be resolved in another way, not necessarily by introducing these restrictions. Well, we've got law enforcement that can keep an eye on it, too. That's what the police are for. Well, I understand the police are often busy. Lately, we see him gathering around the Sejm and the Senate. So many cars we see that I don't remember... Well, since martial law, I haven't seen as many police cars as he's been around Parliament. I can see through the window how many people get off, how many get on and so on. That's what happens every day. Well, it'd probably be good if the police took care of these few places in Poland. Therefore, it would not be necessary to introduce this restriction, it would be clear and easy to resolve. But it's supposed to look different. About... I'm just gonna talk a little bit more about these public places. Well, that's gonna be a problem. We're probably going to have to deal with this, and we're going to be updating this bill in the future. There's one more thing. I tabled an amendment at the committee meeting and it was not accepted. I have prepared this amendment at the moment, too, but since it turns out that Marshal Borusewicz withdrew his amendment, I withdraw mine too. I'm not putting it together because the committee would have to meet, and she's already actually been voted out by the committee. What's with the amendment? Well, I just want to explain briefly, in two sentences. I'm almost done. Where the number of applications for authorisation is high and therefore it is necessary to decide who to give them to... There is a third amendment in Article. 1. I suggested we delete our mouths. 3b, so that this recipe doesn't exist. What's this all about? It's about who gets permission first. And there's the criterion of the greatest distance. If the store's close, you won't get it. And yet the public roads are written here, and we also have neighborhood roads and other roads. And I gave an example that there's a newly built office building here. There's a restaurant in that office downstairs, there's a cafe, and there's a shop where you can buy alcohol. It's a very tall office building, and there's also a hotel section, a restaurant. And so that's where you won't get that license anymore, because this distance is zero, it's all in the same place. So this recipe, in my opinion... The municipality may decide that he is unnecessary. There was a request to delete it, but it did not receive a positive opinion from the committee, and therefore I do not submit it either. Thank you very much. That's it. That's it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u200	The next speaker is Senator Dowhan. [[Robert...]] [[But it appears that Bogdan Borusewicz.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The next speaker is Senator Wojtyla. There you go... [[Excuse me. How about me?]] [[Marshal Borusewicz is on the list, here it appears that now Marshal Borusewicz...]] [[Mr. Marshal, what about me?]] Mr. Secretary didn't sign you up as a marshal... [[Oh, I'm sorry, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, ……]] ...but I'll write you down. [[Mr. Borusewicz's on the list.]] Now we're going to give the marshal a vote, and the senator will be next. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This time a group of Members tabled a bill that goes in a pretty good direction. I believe that the solutions that are being put in place here In particular, this possibility to consider in the award of concessions the situation in individual ancillary units, i.e. in settlements, in district councils They're important. It is also important that these entities are given competence to evaluate the authorisation of alcohol sales in their territory, because no one knows the area as well as those who live there. In large cities such as Warsaw, Poznań, Gdansk and Wrocław... The size of these cities causes that councillors do not know the specific situation of particular districts. The district council knows them very well, so it's important that the district council, but also the state council, received... Although it is different in the country, the village knows much more about itself. As I say, it is very good that the district councils have been given the opportunity to evaluate this and influence where these points of sale will be and where the concessions will not be. This is the first case. Second thing. According to statistical analysis, before the war alcohol consumption in Poland was 1.6 l, and now it is 9.6 l... But here we have to take into account how it was before the war and how it is now. Before the war, 1.6 liters per head? Well, anyone who has any interest in social history, of course, knows that this is a misleading value. I mean, there was a lot of self-defense, and there was a lot of moonshine. This was simply the custom, especially in the Kingdom territory, under the former Tsarial partition, where no one in general counted with the Tsar's law specially. These neighborhood customs have largely survived to this day. So you'd have to have some historical knowledge to compare these statistics properly. No, similarly, Poland and Italy: Poland - 9,6 l; Italy - 7,2 l... It is well known that in Italy a significant proportion of alcohol is produced on farms. It's common, just like in the Balkans. In Serbia, Croatia. I don't know these statistics, but I know it's common there. There you can produce large quantities e.g. wine from its own harvest Whether it's grapes or apples or pears. It is legal and this production does not count in this statistics, so I think it is not so bad in Poland. I remember what statistics were in the early 1990s or late 1970s, in the 1980s. It was well over 10 l back then. I think we've been down to 14 and 15, but 12 was for sure. Due to changes in the structure of alcohol consumption, more beer is drunk and therefore the statistics are below 10 l. Of course, she's approaching 10 liters, and we need to make some adjustments here, so that she doesn't cross that line so she doesn't get up. I asked what this internal consumption looked like. It's a good thing it looks like this, that the consumption of beer continues to grow, and those strong alcohols. It's falling. In this direction You have to act. I didn't have that option before, so I'm going to ask you why you don't want to let this apple drink beer in the same way? I just remembered his name. [[Cider.]] That's right, cider. I don't understand why you don't want to let him go, especially since we have a lot of apple production. Why won't you let him go? As far as alcohol content is concerned, it is at the level of beer, and we have the opportunity to produce it from our own raw materials. When it comes to slavivitch, Senator Rooster, if you want to talk about it, talk about it, but she's 75%. I would be very careful, but of course this is acceptable right now because it can be produced for its own use. You can't sell it, and I think that's a good solution. Finally, I will talk about the situation of a Frenchman who, like us, lives in a Member State of the European Union. This Frenchman gets in a car and goes from Paris to Warsaw. In Paris, he could have 0.7... [[0,8‰]] ...0.8. Passing the German border... [[0,5‰]] ...and he can only have 0.5. It enters the territory of Poland and has a limit of 0,2. Imagine the controls that this poor Frenchman will encounter. With 0.7 in his blood, he enters Germany... [[...and he's sober.]] ...and it has a limit to 0,5 and in Poland it will only be surprised. Of course, we are in a much better situation, because the Pole, having 0,2 and going the other way, to Paris, and everything is fine, is happy, the police do not bother him. But I think that... of course, there are some historical customs here, but I also think that in Russia... [[In the Czech Republic and Slovakia too.]] There's a 0.0 in Russia, and that's a bit of an exaggeration. I already told you that if this Frenchman came to Moscow, he'd pay another fine. Well, you have to be careful that these sharp restrictions are acceptable. Of course, we can introduce 0.1, we can introduce 0.0, just as Putin did. But what of it? [[They drink less.]] Do they drink less there? Do they drink less? I'm afraid not. But not only consumption has changed in Poland, because the structure of consumption has changed. And that's what you need to keep an eye on. But our experience is different. Ladies and gentlemen, I had a meeting with voters in a town near Gdansk during the election campaign. There was a sugar factory there. It was October, which was the working time of the sugar factory. Under every tree or by every tree, or someone was standing there, holding on to that tree, or lying there. [[He was supporting the tree, Mr. Marshal.]] Now we've got construction, we've been building... What was the problem with bricklayers? Now not only under any tree do I not see a drunk bricklayer, but also the most sober profession are bricklayers. [[That's a good change.]] I don't, and I don't think any of you have met a drunk bricklayer to make a crooked wall. In the early 1990s, I had this situation: a curved wall... Fortunately, departmental, yes, fortunately departmental. So there have been positive changes. If we are complaining that nothing has changed in Poland, let us admit that at least on this issue, Mr Marshal, there has been a big positive change. It's the only thing that needs to be maintained now. This is important to all of us. Thank you. [[You have a voice, Senator...]] Oh, no, one more thing I have to explain. Because I was about to report the removal of the passage I was asking the Minister about... This is a section of the bill that says that in the places where military units are included, decisions should be taken after consultation of the relevant garrison commanders. I was surprised by the record, and I wanted to delete it, but it turns out it's a record. In this old bill... [[That's already been explained.]] And I looked at the date of that bill, the date of that old bill. This is the Law of 26 October 1982! [[Yes, 1982.]] And that explains it! If we're looking for Communism relics... [[Voice from the room: Here we go.]] ...here we have it. This is the relic of martial law I found on the anniversary of martial law! [[Mr. Marshal, time's up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u202	Senator Dowhan. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u203	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm short because we're in a hurry for Christmas Eve and we're trying to make it better... But, Mr. Marshal, I'm looking, I'm looking, I'm looking and I'm looking... and I don't believe it's 1982! But there was an amendment in 1992, but it didn't take into account things. For example, new means of communication, such as e-mails, telephones or the Internet, which is common today. I brought up this car thing because there's actually a problem that shyly, quietly report to the police themselves. ♪ Somewhere in conversations you hear it ♪ But there is still no political will and, above all, the courage to raise these thresholds. In fact, in Russia or Ukraine there's a threshold of 0.0, and it's a total bullshit, because no one follows that. And in fact, as you said, the marshal, if the Frenchman leaves his dinner, he'll have 0.75 promila in his blood and enter Germany, then... I don't know how much punishment there is, whether he's a criminal or not. But surely if he enters Poland with the same result In other words, within the same European Union, he will already be a criminal, he will go to jail and be punished severely. So in one country, you can do something freely, and in another country, doing the same thing, you're a criminal. We have a great Highway of Liberty, which runs from Warsaw through Berlin further. The episode from New Tomyśl to the border in Świecko is really modern, concrete, with wide stripes, better than on the other side of the Oder, with neighbours. Yeah, but there's a 90-mile-an-hour limit here, and you drive across the border and you can drive as much as the factory gave. I go there a lot, and I don't see anybody driving there very fast, because common sense and burning, and other things are slowing down or slowing down. I've already written twice a statement so that maybe those who sometimes want to try out or live on the roads of the county, the city, the more in the cities, allow... Let them ride on the highway, wide, safe, a little faster than the standards allow, maybe at least on some stretch of... Well, that's not what we're discussing today. Indeed, the problem with alcohol is much broader. The Minister said he wasn't involved... I would like to refer to the issue of mass events, which I am very close to, because for many years I have been engaged in sports, now to a limited extent, but earlier to a very large extent. Due to the Euro 2012 was introduced some absurd, beer 3.5% Which is probably one of the companies, because she's the only one making that beer for the stadiums... We all know that it's 3.5 percent that's normal... And it's not measured, it's hard to produce, it's costing... The consumption of this beer is really small. On the other hand, Now that we're at the stadiums, I'll say it. There are boxes in which there are strong drinks and less strong drinks, there is normal beer. And this is the gradation of people: those who bought cheaper tickets and are lower, you have to set behind the beer 3.5% in a plastic cup, mostly warm, and those who have more gold can enjoy alcohol, from champagne to strong drinks to chilled beer. But here's the job for Minister Bubble. Perhaps there will be some regulation... Lately looking at Cracovia's game with the Krakow Vistula, these shooting races and stopping the match, I thought: I don't know, maybe more beer, more alcohol would cause them to do more drinking than throwing hot ones at each other. I was also trying to say Mr. Marshal in front of me said that too. That society is changing. We change, we grow up. This is a very good example of smoking. When we introduced a law that talked about banning smoking in public places, it was also noise, the environment that we deal with every day cigarettes, and so smokers, they stormed that it was an attempt on freedom, that it was an attack on democracy. Today is a habit. Today's habit is this. I've been talking about this here with my esteemed colleague. That even at weddings in the open air, where you sit at a table in the garden, people get up and go smoke a cigarette on the side so they don't bother anyone. So this culture of smoking, as well as the culture of drinking, has already changed. We can't be hostages to these 7%s. Or maybe 10%. We can't be held hostage by those... And if anyone wants to have good wine, good beer or any other good alcohol by dinner... Well, we can't fire a baby with a bath in the bill. With all due respect... The minister's not here because he's got a train. He's from my side, because he's from Głogów, so very close to Green Mountain, I didn't know that. I also learned that one of the ladies who were present today is also from Green Mountain. We agreed after New Year's, maybe we can find a solution so we can be free, I don't know, order a good drink online, so there's no obstacles, so there's no barriers to access for normal people, so we can... It's about making a gradation. I believe that our society is already mature, and it is certainly more mature than 30 years ago when this law was made. And he's also aware of this... It is not true that we are at the forefront of Europe when it comes to alcohol consumption because we are inside. That's what's changing in favor of wine. With us they were reborn, and I say this also on the example of the Green Mountain, vineyards which were neglected after the war, and today we have very good Polish wine, wine which gains good recommendations at the fair and is sold. Let's give the little breweries that are reborn a chance, give the vineyards a chance, because this is our industry too, and this is a job for people. But this is also a new culture of life and alcohol consumption, as is the new culture of smoking, which is happening today in designated places, not available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u204	You have the voice of Senator Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I would like to refer to the discussion on a law which is already many, many years old, to say that when it comes to alcohol-related behaviour, the following factors influence this. The first and most important, because it's about 50%, is the education of society. And that's what Marshal Borusewicz was talking about. I am pleased that changes in customs have been noticeable since 1990. I'll tell you later, because I was the author of a major amendment in 1992, what we predicted then and what mistakes We made mistakes like this. So the first factor is education. And here we have to say, and it was also Senator Dowhan who said that in terms of all the behaviors we call anti-healthy, these risky behaviors there has been a change of morality. Nobody smokes anymore at the wedding table, they come out, they don't fall under the table anymore at the country weddings, they drink in moderation. And that's where we're successful. The second factor is the law. The bill we're updating today is a law that works for many years. Well, of course, times change. Senator Dowhan said that in 1992, we didn't have the Internet at the time, we couldn't predict the world we were living in, the more that in 1990, unfortunately, we deviated from the Western world in terms of technology. We're about the same level right now. The next factor is taxes. And here we are discussing that alcohol consumption has decreased since 1990 to me more in 2003. Alcohol consumption in 1990 was almost 12 litres per capita and fell to 6.96 litres in 2003. And then it started to grow, and right now it's less than 10%. But that's over 10%. Because the Minister was only talking about this official... [[Literature, liters.]] Sorry, 10 liters. The Minister spoke about official alcohol consumption, but we always add about 10% Because that's what happens, first of all, contraband, and second of all, alcohol that is produced by domestic means. That's about 10%. , under Polish conditions it is calculated that way. And in 2003, in 2002, I was also opposed to the amendment of this law. Well, unfortunately, there's been a reduction in excise duty. And the second event that happened at the time was an extension of the beer commercial. Until 2003, beer could not be advertised until 11:00 p.m., i.e. it could only be done at night: from 23:00 to 6:00 a.m. This possibility of advertising beer has been extended and it can now be done from 8 a.m., as we see now. And that immediately caused alcohol consumption to jump to almost 10 liters per head. The things we're discussing today are a change of law. This is the right direction, but if we do not educate society and if we do not manipulate taxes, it will be insufficient factors that will not have a significant impact on alcohol consumption. And in 1992, as we amended the law I was the Minister of Health at the time. What were our assumptions? Well, these were assumptions to change the structure of alcohol consumption. Almost 80% of the alcohol consumed at the time was vodka. The beer was very low because the beer was not available. I remember that when I studied in the 1980s, we were getting on the Moscow train Berlin, getting off in Poznań, getting off in Zbąszynek with a bag full of beer. Because you couldn't get that beer. [[That's what I did!]] Yes? At that time, we tried to change this structure of alcohol consumption. There are three patterns of alcohol consumption in Europe. There's a structure in which beer prevails: Austria... [[Germany.]] ...Germany. There's one where wine prevails. This is the whole of southern Europe, France, Spain, Portugal. And one where high-interest alcohols prevail: Poland, Scandinavia, Russia. And now... this structure of alcohol consumption, in terms of health effects, has pluses and minuses. The majority of patients treated for cirrhosis are in France, Hungary, Italy. In countries where they drink high-interest alcohol occasionally, as it is called in literature, i.e. on Saturdays and Sundays, cases of cirrhosis of the liver are very few. In second place are those countries where beer is consumed There is an average number of cases of cirrhosis. As far as alcohol addiction is concerned, there are not so many addicts in Poland, because in France or in countries where beer is consumed, there are more, because every small amount... As my forensic professor said, it's better to lie in the gutter once a year than to be 50 every day. Because when you drink a lot, it gets addicted to alcohol. And now the consequences of the changes we've made to change the habits of alcohol consumption. Well, that's the consequence. And here we have to admit that we didn't anticipate that this bill would last so long that it would be amended. That beer is not seen as an alcohol drink. And that brought down the age of alcohol initiation. In 1990, the average age of alcohol initiation was over 13 years, now it is 11 years old. The second effect of these solutions is that young girls and boys start drinking alcohol at the same age, and girls of teenage age even consume this alcohol more And it's the same with cigarettes. More than boys. So that these are the negative effects of these solutions. Senator Szymanski spoke here about drinking alcohol at birth and during pregnancy. I am conducting monitoring of the health of the mother and child, that is, I am studying how young people of childbearing age and pregnant women behave and how this affects the health of the newborn and future generations. Well, that's disturbing. And the senator saw it. The fact that those drinking girls, women of childbearing potential, are more than in the entire population of women. 22% women during the conception period, i.e. when they become pregnant, consume alcohol. And if you look at... And they don't realize, they don't know that even consumption of a small amount of alcohol, e.g. one beer may cause FAS syndrome, i.e. fetal alcohol syndrome, in this newborn or foetus. Doctors' consciousness levels are also very low. In the questions I'm asking the doctors, do you recognize FAS? Almost no one's answering... There isn't. And if there are symptoms of FAS, then it turns out that... the symptoms of FAS syndrome are about 5%. , i.e. de facto FAS or FASD syndrome occurs in 5% and not in less than 1% As the official statistics show. And the doctors are unconscious. Back in 2009, when we discussed alcohol consumption and asked women if the doctor recommended alcohol consumption, 10% Women responded that doctors even recommended that one glass of wine be consumed during pregnancy, because it has a positive effect on pregnancy. Now the health programs. From 2010 to 2016... [[Time's up, Senator.]] Mr. Marshal, one more sentence. ...we implemented the so-called. Swiss programme. I'm sure you've seen the news on TV about the harmfulness of alcohol. And this year's studies have shown that those doctors who recommend drinking wine during pregnancy are already below 2% and only 30% of women believe that it was 90% before this program, that it is not harmful to drink alcohol during pregnancy. This is proof that, above all, we should focus on educating society all the time, especially during teenage years. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, and I apologize for prolonging my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u206	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would remind you that point seven: the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator has already been examined. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: a grant law for the Foundation for Cultural Heritage intended to supplement perpetual capital. The text of the act is contained in print No 684, and the report of the committee In print No 684 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, a report by the committee on the grant law adopted by the Sejm on 8 December 2017 for the Foundation for Cultural Heritage intended to supplement perpetual capital. High Izbo, the purpose of this law is to determine the scope of use and the way in which the State budget grants to the Foundation for Cultural Heritage, hereinafter referred to as the Foundation. The grant is intended to complement the perpetual capital of the foundation, and the proceeds from investing part of this capital derived from the grant will be available only to carry out renovation, conservation and investment works at the Jewish cemetery in Warsaw. The amount of the grant will amount to PLN 100 million and was provided for in the Act of 6 December 2017 amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. The payment of the grant shall be based on an agreement concluded between the Minister responsible for Cultural Affairs and the Protection of National Heritage and the Foundation. Under the Act, the foundation will be required to keep separate accounts of the funds received from grants and of the income from the investment of part of the perpetual capital derived from grants. The Foundation will submit by the end of March a report to the Minister responsible for cultural and national heritage protection, which shall include the settlement of the financial and factual tasks carried out by means of income and investment of part of the perpetual capital of the grant-based foundation and information on the manner in which the grant funds are invested. The Act is to enter into force on the day following the announcement. What should be noted here? Maybe I'll start by saying a few words about the foundation itself. He's at the Senate meeting today, the president of the foundation, Dr. Laszczkowski. The Foundation for Cultural Heritage is a Polish non-governmental organization that conducts several conservation projects in Poland and abroad. He conducts works, among others. in the College of St. Lorenzo in Żółkwi near Lviv, in the College of the Holy Trinity in Olyka in Volyn, in the church of St. St. Mikołaj Biskupa in Kamieniec Podolski, at the Łyczakowski Cemetery in Lviv, at the Tatar cemetery in Studziance and at the Jewish Cemetery at ul. The trench in Warsaw. The Foundation cooperates with the cemetery owner at ul. Okopowa, with the Jewish Religious Community in Warsaw, which made available the foundation, through a long-term contract, the cemetery's area in order to carry out order and conservation works there. Works carried out since 2015 by the foundation at the Jewish Cemetery at ul. Okopowa in Warsaw, although insufficient, is the largest conservation project in the history of this cemetery, and the scale of conservation activities of the foundation is the largest among the activities of all Polish NGOs. Now a few words about the cemetery itself, because the information about it is not so common. Jewish cemetery in Warsaw at ul. Okopowa, formerly on ul. Gęsiej, is one of the most important testimonies of the centuries-old presence of Polish Jews in the territory of the Republic of Poland, is the most original proof of the importance of the community of those citizens of the Polish state, which before World War II represented about 30% of the inhabitants of Warsaw. This necropolis is a testimony of history, social life, cultural life, burial place of participants of national uprisings and wars about Poland's regaining and preserving independence, as well as a museum under the open sky. Belongs to the largest Jewish necropolis in the world After Łódź she is the second in Poland At the same time, the oldest European cemeteries of exceptional artistic importance and historical importance. By order of the President of the Republic of Poland in 2014, this necropolis was included, together with other religious cemeteries, in the list of historical monuments. Currently, the cemetery is in an emergency. The lack of systematic care and protection, a stable planning system, urgent repair and maintenance work, as well as solutions to the problem of greenery cause gradual degradation of this one of Warsaw's most important historical teams, as a result of a war deprived of much of the original substance. I'd like to... [[Is this the end of the report?]] No, not yet. High Senate, I would like to point out that during the work at the committee meeting held on Tuesday, we also took note of the schedule of work envisaged there. There was information about it. From this amount of recapitalisation of the foundation at the level of PLN 10 million, a real write-down, which will result from investments in bonds, is the amount of approximately PLN 2.5 million, which will be allocated to renovation work in this cemetery. The tasks are huge because, as I mentioned, this is an area of 33 ha and there are about 80,000 tombstones. That makes us realize what the scope of the work is. It's a job for years. I would like to point out that the group of Members, who was the initiator of the bill, has found a brilliant way of constantly, systematically and regularly finalising these works, which unfortunately could not be carried out on such a regular basis so far. I would also like to point out that during the discussion at the committee meeting, there were some comments, some minor proposals for changes from the Legislative Bureau concerning the provisions of this law, but in the course of the discussion all members of the committee... Because I am now presenting the uniform position of all the senators attending the committee meeting. And since the possibility of creating this 100 million write-down is linked to the around budget law that we worked for last week, and since it is possible to mobilise these funds only and only until the end of this calendar year, we have come to the conclusion that this law should be adopted without amendments. We found that the law should be adopted in the form in which it came to us from the Sejm, with the assumption that any amendment tabled at this moment to this law and the passing of the law to the Sejm again would delay the launch of these funds by 1 calendar year. This would be a huge loss in terms of the scope of this work and the urgent need to carry out this work. As I have said, the committee's position was unanimous. The 8 senators present at the meeting supported the draft law. And the committee recommends that the High House adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u208	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u209	Senator rapporteur, I wasn't at the committee meeting because I'm not a committee member. As for the renovation of the Jewish cemetery, of course I'm in favour of... But tell me more about this foundation. Is this a government foundation or is this a private foundation? Who's on the board, who's on the board of this foundation? When did this foundation start? It's a few basic information, because it's 100 million from the state budget... And since we're going to vote on this, I'd like to have that information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u210	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u211	Mr. Marshal, in answer to your questions, I can say that we have not discussed in detail the structure of this foundation. All we know is from the information we had. That it is a non-governmental organisation, it is a foundation that has a valuable work in this area, which I mentioned. We know that Dr. Laszczkowski is the president of this foundation. If the marshal lets a government representative and possibly your president speak, it's detailed... [[Let's not get ahead of ourselves.]] So that I do not feel competent to give you such information, because it goes beyond my report, because we did not discuss it in detail during the meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u212	Thank you. You're asking Senator Ryszka a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u213	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My question should be addressed to the Minister or the Director, but if they do not answer the questions, I am asking the Senator of the rapporteur. Namely the perpetual fund, i.e. the so-called. Iron capital... Is there an account in which the money could also be paid by the Jewish community or could be paid by various private donors from Israel or the United States? Then this fund could go up. Is it just the 100 million that you want to make, or is this fund also open to personal contributions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u214	I join this question, because also Polish citizens, Polish nationalities could pay for it. Mr Ryszka wants, as I understand it, to open this possibility to Jewish diaspora or Jewish communities in Poland. So I'm joining this question, and I'm asking if the foundation has any other resources from other sources. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[May I respond, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u215	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u216	I'm the one who's gonna answer both the senators, because the question was, so to speak, co-ordinated. From the information I have, it appears that individuals can contribute to the foundation. And as for the details of the structure of these deposits, whether or not they're... There was no mention of this at the meeting. In the course of the questions to the Minister, the Deputy Minister of Culture and National Heritage is with us. There will certainly be very detailed answers in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u217	Thank you very much. Senator Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, say again: have we heard correctly that this is about PLN 100 million? [[Yes.]] 100 million zlotys transferred as a targeted grant from the state budget to this foundation, right? [[But 100 million? Children with autism don't want to give.]] I'm the one who's gonna say I'd really like to meet you. I don't think it's just me. The scope of the planned works, which will be carried out at the Jewish cemetery on the street. The trench. And I would also like to say right away that I absolutely do not mind that the Polish state should support this type of initiative. Cemetery on the street. The trench is indeed unique and extremely important. However, there are many different necropolises throughout the country, including Jewish cemeteries, beautiful, neglected cemeteries. E.g. In my town, in Czestochowa, there is a cemetery on the street. The golden one, for which there is still a very deep, very intense dialogue, and there is no solution to the problem of who would continue to look after this cemetery. And it's also a historic object. And I would like to conclude by making such a remark that we have mentioned here with the senators, among others. with Senator Szymanski, that we are promised for 2018 in the state budget, of course for the time being still in the project We will see what the effects of PLN 100 million will be, exactly the amount that we will spend on carrying out the task of caring for Poles living abroad and Polonia. And that's the amount for the whole world, so colloquially speaking, for the whole year. This year, the Senate spent PLN 75 million on this purpose, which I am talking about. By comparing both amounts... Of course, I am well aware that conservation work is very costly, but I would like to, as I said... I mean, this amount is impressive. Oh, yeah, I'll say. [[Yeah, us, too.]] I would therefore like to know what scope the Foundation is planning and how long it intends to carry out its work. Thank you very much. [[May I respond, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u219	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u220	Mr. Senator, I think there's been some incontrovertible understanding here, maybe I haven't made myself clear. This amount of PLN 100 million is not the amount that will be allocated to work in the cemetery at ul. The trench, that's all it's gonna be on bonds and the proceeds from those bonds are gonna be... It will be frozen, and the income will amount to about PLN 2.5 million a year. And such a real amount... Such a permanent mechanism will be created for the restoration of the Jewish cemetery. Permanent, registered by law. [[A year.]] And here we have to separate this 100 million PLN from the real resources that will be spent on the cemetery. Maybe I'm sorry about that. The High House may have made the impression that we're talking about PLN 100 million for this purpose. [[Exactly.]] So I'll explain right away. The senator was asking for a schedule. I asked, too, and the committee asked at the committee meeting. The President spoke about this and said that there was such a schedule. First of all, it's about discovering these tombstones, because there... it's called professionally, I don't remember how anymore, but anyway, it's overgrown. The idea is to organize this space, this green space, and then systematically, quarter after quarter, to do maintenance work, the quarry. This is a job, let's face it, spread over many years, because it is such a huge object that making it for the amount of PLN 2.5 million is not real at all. That's gonna be a lot more money because he needs that kind of funding. So that I can answer the senator's question. As for the details... There will be a representative of the Ministry and the president of the Foundation. If he is given a voice, these details could be explained. In any case, I stress once again: we are talking in real terms about PLN 2.5 million, which are intended for this purpose on a yearly basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u221	Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am directing this question, but if the senator thinks that he has already responded to the extent that he could answer the question at the committee meeting, I will ask the Minister to answer it. Because there are many excellent foundations in Poland, which would very much like to receive a much smaller amount, in order to pay it to the bank and then to pursue various goals, including the reconstruction of cemeteries, which are incredibly neglected, Jewish, Polish, various... Even if from these percentages or from bonds is from PLN 2.5 million to PLN 3 million, we are talking about investing a huge amount. Don't be surprised by the movement, but... I'll say it again after Senator Warzocha. For all tasks relating to Polonia worldwide we have... [[Promised.]] ...the promised PLN 100 million and we will be happy if we receive them. And then there's a huge discussion in the committee about how to spend these funds. - including the involvement of the marshals. And here we find out that in one movement you can allocate to one of the foundations an equal amount. Where's the symmetry preserved here? Has this been discussed? Where are the rules of proportion? I'm sure I'll ask the Minister for detailed information on that. [[In writing.]] [[Senator Alexander Pociej: May I?]] [[Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u223	Well, maybe I'll answer right away, because the senator raised a few questions. So here's the first thing: At least that's what I said at the committee meeting, which I'm reporting. Measures have emerged as there is a better budgetary situation. That is why there has been an opportunity to use the money that is in the budget this year to recapitalisation this foundation or to put it into the fund within this foundation. So it's not like they've been shrunk or taken measures, e.g. from the "Culture" section or from any other budget department and thus reduced to other tasks, and here there was a total of 100 million. There was a hundred million. This bill was processed in the Seym. 416 Members voted in favour, 4 against and 6 abstentions. So, in principle, it can be said that this law was adopted in the Sejm in a kind of consensus. But I share the senator's view. I, too, think that we should have a much larger pool of resources. I am also a member of the committee that deals with these matters, not just the cultural committee. We should have much more resources to support various projects that Polish environments do outside Poland. Here is absolute agreement. In my opinion, there should be much more than 100 million. And I think that everyone in the Senate has a similar view on this issue because we: we know the scale of needs; we know more or less how much these measures need; and above all, we know how painful it is for us to make very difficult decisions and refuse to implement some very valuable projects because they simply do not exist that they are limited to this amount. Let's hope there's 100 million this year. As for the details... I'd ask you to ask the Minister about them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u224	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I am very pleased that 100 million PLN has been found in material culture and I absolutely support this initiative. By the way, I would like to say that you are contributing not only to the increase of material but also intangible culture, because I heard people singing Kaczmarski coming here. I didn't think in my life... [[But which Kaczmarski song?]] Stop, Catherine! The crown of the tsars and I noticed that they were singing to you A dream like this can take it out of your head! We both know the whole of this song. But thank you for asking. But I'm going back to that bill. You told the senator that there were measures. As far as I know the budgetary situation and budgetary mechanisms, they didn't show up at the Ministry of Culture, they just didn't spend money on something. I may be wrong, but that's the tenor of my question. I would like to know where 150 million PLN came from at the Ministry of Culture first, because in fact that's what you have to call it, and 75 million PLN for this institute, as I call it, IPN bis. And where did that $100 million money come from right now for this very, very great project? And that's my first question. And the other. What's the use of money that won't go... Because there's actually a lot written about this cemetery. The senator has just explained that PLN 2.5 million will be earmarked for this cemetery. And I'd like to know, because I don't see it entirely in the bill, which is what the rest of the money is going to be spent on not renovating the cemetery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I said about PLN 2.5 million because if you read the article. 3 paragraph... no, in Article. 3 In general, you would see that it is clarified that the funds forming part of the capital of the perpetual foundation derived from grants are fully invested through the acquisition of the securities and other financial instruments referred to in Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1e of the Law of 15 February 1992 on corporation tax. That indicates we'll probably be dealing with bonds. Because there was a discussion about this, which is 2.5%. 'Cause that's 2.5% of 100 million... We were told that this is such a real amount of about PLN 2.5 million. And such real means can be. It could be 2.3 million, it could be 2.6 million zlotys, and I don't want to talk about it anymore. It is not that 100 million have been removed from the Department of Culture, in the Ministry's budget, in the Department of Culture and National Heritage, in the Budget Act for 2017 100 million have been removed and transferred to this Foundation. These funds come from the surplus budget, from the good budget item in which they are currently located. So this 100 million zloty is kind of extra money. They are not taken from anyone from what is in the budget for 2017 in the department of Culture and National Heritage. As for the further details that the senator asked me, I suggest you ask the Minister, because I would not want to go beyond the scope of the report and talk about something that was not mentioned during the committee meeting. [[Thank you very much, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u227	Your Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u228	Senator, from what you've said, it appears that there are resources in the ministry, 100 million... [[In the budget.]] Well, this is the Ministry's budget, this is the Ministry's budget, that's what I read in the project. If so, please tell us in which budget and which ministry. After all, the budget has its departments. In what section were the funds of PLN 100 million? And since today is December 15th and it is necessary to spend these funds by December 31st, from my point of view it prevents some rational discussion. 'Cause you might wonder if it's the cemetery. The cemetery in Lesk is e.g. much older or maybe to other older cemeteries. Maybe we could even create a government foundation for the renovation of Jewish cemeteries in Poland, because that's our duty? Of course, I'll also ask if this is a government foundation, if it's a government foundation, if it's a private foundation. Not private, not Mr. Iksiński's, but private within the meaning of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u229	Mr. Marshal, when I answer your question, all I know is that the foundation is non-governmental. You'll tell the Minister about the details. Who's the funder, what's the funder's council, what structure, what capital? Don't burden me with having to answer these questions, because I don't know. There was no mention of this at the committee meeting. As for the amount of 100 million that raises interest... We followed the bill around the budget on December 6th. Within the framework of the Around Budget Act, this amount has been reserved, so these funds are physically there. I don't know what account, but I understand the Ministry of Finance. Vacatio legis provided for for this law is 1 day. It was thought so that by the end of the calendar year it would be possible for the law to enter into force and that the recapitalisation could be physically carried out, or as we call it, a foundation that, in turn, would place funds in bonds. She can't use this money for another purpose, because that's how it's written in the bill. It's not the money that the foundation could manage in any way. That's the explanation I'm making. As far as the details are concerned, I suggest you ask Minister Lewandowski for them, who represents the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u230	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz wants to ask you a question. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u231	Yes. Mr. Senator, there's a record here, in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. You've confused me a little, and I'm trying to ask you a question. The Minister responsible for Culture and the Protection of National Heritage shall provide the grant. I thought it was in his, so to speak, department, which means it's the money from this ministry. And you're pointing out that it's not from somewhere else. If that's the case... I will, of course, ask the Minister what it looks like on the financial side, but it is you, Senator rapporteur, who is the Senator rapporteur and you present... The bill was on the committee. And you didn't ask what foundation it was, the foundation structure, the foundation authority? I'm just... Well, you didn't ask. I'm surprised. We should have discussed this on the committee. Of course, I'm gonna ask that right now, but I'm surprised the committee didn't ask that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u232	Speaking of your doubts, Mr Marshal, I would like to say that we had a discussion at a committee meeting with representatives of all the clubs present in the Senate. I personally asked the President, Dr. Laszczkowski, present in the Chamber about the topics you were talking about, and the answer that was given in this regard, the committee found it satisfactory. Minister Sellin was also present at the committee meeting, who also spoke about the foundation. Our job was not to check, in quotes, the foundation, its authorities and its registration act. X-raying the foundation wasn't our job. Our task was to consider at the request of the Senate Marshal a particular project included in a specific Senate printing. I believe that we have done this job properly, and I am the rapporteur of the law in this regard. And since Mr. Marshal is in deeper doubt, there is a representative of the Ministry who can speak on this subject. [[I don't have any deeper doubts. I don't want to X-ray this foundation because it's not my role. I want basic information because it's 100 million zlotys.]] [[But that 100 million is all 100 million, and only 2.5 million will use...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u233	Calm down, please. [[Okay, I won't bother your senator any longer, of course...]] Senator Wach. You're welcome. [[I'm waiting for the minister.]] [[But you're welcome. I'm very fond of your marshal getting tired of me, so that...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I actually support this bill. I'd say that these are our questions... that a possible discussion is academic, because either we support this bill or we don't. Otherwise, it's not gonna work this year. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] 100 million isn't much, because it's a one-off expense, that's capital, and it's secured by this bill. So I think it's bold to support that. But I have one question of this kind, whether it was raised at the committee meeting. Namely, in this act the own costs associated with this action are limited to 15%. Was there a discussion about this? I'd like to know if it's much or little. 'Cause I'm on foundations and I don't know the cost of doing my own paperwork. Is 15% Is that a lot or a little bit of a profit? And did you ask that? [[Voice from the room: It's a lot.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u235	Thank you very much, Senator. We have not discussed this issue in detail. The main burden of the discussion was the amount of 100 million, the amount of real resources that will be earmarked for this specific purpose, and the scope and timetable of the work, plus a legislative discussion as well. The opinion contains doubts from the legislator, which have been raised. However, the committee unanimously considered that, in view of the situation and this deadline, the legislative shortcomings which the legislator considered to be potential minor legislative shortcomings were not such a serious obstacle that this law should not be adopted as soon as possible. Mr Fedorowicz asked in detail about this, leading the committee's deliberations. And that's just what we decided on the committee. And is that... what you asked Senator Wach? Is 15% is it a lot or a little? I can't answer the senator's question. I also believe that this is a question to the minister, who, I understand, as a resort oversees the work of the foundation, so he has an opinion on it. [[But I have one more question for you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u236	Of course, Mr. Marshal, please... [[May I?]] Don't limit it. We have plenty of time... [[Thank you for not being restricted in this particular case.]] Absolutely not. [[In the case of the Supreme Court, most of us have limited our options...]] We spent two days on this, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u237	Mr. Senator, I'll ask a rather rhetorical question. You're also on the committee... [[Voices from the Emigration Room.]] ...immigration... Does the Polish Community take 11% from those grants that... up to 11% ? Because that's 11%.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u238	Right. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But he's got more resources...]] Yes, sir. Well, I can confirm that. [[Is that good or bad? Okay, I guess.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u239	Senator Hare. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm here to see the minister.]] Well, who is it now, Senator? [[Senator Fedorovich.]] Senator Fedorovich. I'm sorry, I'm reading names...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u240	I just wanted to... if that was a question because... We also talked very seriously about the activities of this foundation in Poland and abroad and about its excellent recommendation. Just confirm it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u241	Yes, sir. I mean, we don't know that this foundation... And it's a little related to the answer to Senator Warzocha's question. Part of the Foundation's activity profile, a significant part, if not most, is directed to areas beyond our eastern border, so these are works in today's Belarus, Ukraine and Lithuania. This also shows that indirectly these measures support the protection of our national heritage outside the current borders of the Republic of Poland. And I can confirm that by replying to President Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u242	Are there any more questions? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I have decided to take the floor to clarify all the issues that have arisen during the discussion with the Senator rapporteur. Therefore, I will briefly characterize the Cultural Heritage Foundation. The Foundation for Cultural Heritage was established in 2012, its founders and management is Michał Laszczkowski, present in the hall, and Paweł Wilski. There's no funder's advice there. The aim of this foundation is primarily to protect and promote cultural heritage in Poland and abroad. The Foundation has been receiving for many years since 2012. In other words, in previous governments, grants for projects related to e.g. with renovation of cemeteries, monuments, churches in Poland and abroad. This year, among others, 5 projects are carried out for the Senate, including in the College of St. Lorenzo in Żółkwi near Lviv, in the college of the Holy Trinity in Olyka in Volhynia and in the church in St. Nicholas Bishop in the Podolski Stone. These are three of those five projects that are currently being carried out on behalf of the Senate. The Foundation is the largest NGO in terms of scale of work in this area, i.e. in the field of antiquities protection and promotion of material heritage Because above all, he deals with material heritage. The Fund is, of course, open to external payments, so that several tens of thousands of PLN per year comes from private contributions, but the main source are grants which the Foundation acquires in competitions or which are awarded for specific actions. Why would this foundation get 100 million zlotys? I mean, it's not like she's gonna get that $100 million. She will actually use the money that will be developed on the basis of an iron fund of PLN 100 million, on the basis of a specific agreement that will be concluded between the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the Foundation. And, for example, in the event of the liquidation of foundations or any illegal activities, poor settlement of grants, etc. That $100 million will come back because that money is inviolable, which means you can't spend it. Only money that will come from the percentages of the 100 million can be used, and only for the renovation of the indicated cemetery. And this cemetery is very important because it is the largest cluster of Jewish graves, which is 80,000 graves, 33 hectares. If we wanted to support this cemetery, we would have to transfer several million zlotys to it every year as part of the competition, and that would just be difficult. Each time this procedure would have to be carried out. Meanwhile, the Foundation for Cultural Heritage has a contract signed with the Jewish municipality for the conduct and renovation of this cemetery, so it is the entity that actually manages this cemetery. So, by giving this 100 million... But it's not exactly that we're giving the foundation the 100 million, because we're giving the 100 million to the cemetery that's managed by this very foundation. If the foundation stopped managing this cemetery, it would just have to pay back that 100 million zloty, because it's really a fund... That's the legal formula we found. 'Cause we couldn't find another one for this case 'cause we couldn't find a permanent possibility to finance the biggest and most important Jewish cemetery in Poland, as it seems to me. The question was, did 15% It's a lot. In the Senate 11% is used I mean, if someone gets money from the Senate, they have the right to spend the 11%. And here's 15%. because the difference is that the law on public procurement is involved in the use of money from this iron fund. So everything is accounted for and there are the same procedures as in the case of normal activities of state entities. Therefore, additional experts are needed. There are procedures, settlements, etc., so it's a little more expensive. And that's why the extra 4%. And when it comes to quotas... If the foundation with this PLN 100 million works PLN 2.5 million and does not spend it on the cemetery, the surplus will return to the state budget. It's not like the surplus goes to the foundation. She's going back to the state budget. If the foundation spends 1 million and makes 2.5 million, 1.5 million will go back to the state budget. For every dollar that will be spent with this earned money, there must be a pad, invoice, billing agreement etc., so the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage will of course have full control over the spending of this money. I'm sorry, this might sound colloquial, but we're treating this foundation a little bit like an PV that's just supposed to provide funding for these jobs and maintain a cemetery. The senator also asked where this $100 million came from. Indeed, we pass it on as if from the Ministry's budget, but it's not the money that's left in the Ministry's budget. This is the money that's been all over the state budget, the money collected from the various reserves that have left. Those were different target reserves. I tried to figure out exactly what it was, but it was a dozen different reserves. Since it was not possible to spend this money by the end of the year, it was simply collected in one place, combined with 100 million and transferred to the Ministry of Culture so that we could set up this Iron Fund for the Foundation for Cultural Heritage. The scope of the work is, of course, described in detail in the Act. It's all about what's written in the bill, namely reconstruction, expansion, reconstruction, demolition, renovation, restoration of monuments, renovation of walls, maintenance of paths and alleys, etc. All of this is written in the article. 3 (1) (a) 4. That's all money can be spent on. I hope I answered all the questions. If not, of course I'm ready to answer the rest. I think this is a good project that's worth supporting. That money's already booked in the state budget. As the senator said, this bill must enter into force by the end of the year so that we can transfer this money, legally settle and set up this fund. This is perhaps an extraordinary way of financing such an important action, but it has already been applied once to the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation. The Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation was co-financed in exactly the same way. She was founded an iron fund from which she finances work in the Auschwitz camp. We've just taken advantage of the path we've already wiped out. We think it's a relatively simple, easy bill. The agreement contains so many safeguards that there is no doubt as to the quality of the spending of this money as to the reliability, legality and cost-effectiveness of the management of these amounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u244	Thank you very much, Minister, for the very detailed explanations. I'd like to inform you that at 5 p.m., I'm going to have to announce a break of two and a half hours. If we don't make it to 5:00, you'll have to be back here by 7:30. There you go. I'm opening up the possibility of asking questions. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u245	Thank you very much. One question has already been answered by the Minister, so I'll ask another. The Foundation was established in 2012. In 2014, according to the regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland, the Jewish cemetery was entered on the list of monuments of history, i.e. objects requiring special protection and care. In 2015 the foundation signed an agreement with the Jewish Religious Community in Warsaw. Were there any measures following this? That's my first question. And another one. You pointed out the form of the Iron Fund, listing the former and the latter. Can other foundations and associations also receive such grants from the Ministry of Culture? Has this been practiced before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u246	As part of the agreement signed with the Jewish community... Excuse me, may I? [[There you go.]] Under the agreement signed with the Jewish municipality no funds were transferred because it was an agreement between the Jewish municipality and the foundation. We are not a party to this agreement and we were not interested in this issue at all. This is an exordinary form. Only once before has such a thing been done, only in the case of the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation. It seems to me that such an extraordinary form for precisely such purposes, which are difficult to finance in any other way, should not raise doubts, but indeed it is unusual. As far as other foundations are concerned, I must say that apart from Auschwitz-Birkenau there are none in Poland thus supported by anyone, by any resort, at least from what I know. I don't know anything about any other resort doing that. As I said, it is an extraordinary form, adopted only because of the particular importance of the place to be protected. [[Please use this term the list of historical monuments.]] Yes, sir. [[Because it says a lot.]] Yes, this is a list of historical monuments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u247	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u248	Minister, I have two questions, one about the bill, the other about your opinion, the expression you used. I have a law on the protection of Polish language. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 is mentioned that the protection of the Polish language is particularly about ensuring the correct use of the language, improving the language skills of its users, etc., etc. How would you fit your expression "SPV-ka" as a representative of the Ministry of Culture? How would you explain that? Does this fit in Polish? That's the first question. And the other. We've heard a prediction here that there's about 2.5%. ...I'd like to know where these calculations come from, how do we know that this is going to be so much, and in what values are you going to place this money in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u249	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u250	As far as language issues are concerned, communication is a basic feature of the language, i.e. you need to use such terms that are as precise, understandable and reflect the sense of designum, what they are supposed to define. If it's not in the language... [[What's an HPV?]] If there is no equivalent in the Polish language of a term that functions widely, it is commonly understood in certain environments and is used in a specific way, then it is easy to use a term from a foreign language. PV is short for Special Purpose Vehicle, in English it means as much as... [[I get it. I get it.]] But maybe the other senators don't understand, so I'll explain. This is a special purpose unit, which is something extraordinarily, as I mentioned earlier, something that has been called for a specific purpose or in a specific way is to be used. As far as percentages are concerned, we just assumed that this is about the average return on bonds and low-risk securities and financial instruments. That's about 1.5 to 3%. , depending on what the paperwork is, whether it's bonds, whether it's deposits, etc. In the Act, which was referred to in the proposed legal act, i.e. the Corporate Income Tax Act, in Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1e such low-risk financial instruments are listed. That's why we pointed them out, so there wouldn't be an omen about the risk of embezzling money or too aggressive investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u251	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u252	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let me stress once again, the goal is good, I have here an informant of the foundation, which shows how many different good things, not only in Poland, is doing in this area. But I can name a lot of good goals, there are dozens. As far as NGOs are concerned, the principle in our country is that these organisations receive grants or receive funds in open competitions. [[That's right, that's right.]] So I have a question: did the Ministry of Culture organize a competition in which various organizations took part? I know that there are really many organisations in the area of culture that, in a competent, appropriate way, could manage the amount that would flow from these bonds. Did the state announce this kind of competition, or wasn't there such a competition? And one more thing. Why this money entered the Ministry of Culture, not e.g. to the ministry of the family, which also interacts with thousands of NGOs that could create a similar fund? Let's imagine, for example, that Caritas gets 100 million zlotys, of which he has bonds and 2.5 million zlotys to operate. Why did this happen? And was there a contest in this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u253	I'll try to answer from the end, so I'll be more comfortable. The least co-financed in years... Maybe it's different. Culture is always the least co-financed part of the budget, in general history... Since the government's been in place, ever since the budget's been in place, there's always the least amount of money in culture. There is much more money for other activities, e.g. for the activities of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, which the senator mentioned, is several times, and maybe even several dozens more funds, but it runs a completely different mode of action. About whether there was a contest... There was no contest, but there couldn't be a contest in this case, because the only... It was the Ministry of Culture who wanted this cemetery to be saved. But the Ministry of Culture cannot by itself... is not an entity that can carry out construction work, maintenance work etc., etc. This can only be done by the manager, and in this case the manager is this foundation. Just as the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation manages large squares in the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp, the same foundation deals with the largest in Poland and one of the largest Jewish cemeteries in the world. It's just the only form we could support this particular cemetery. It's not money for the foundation. That money... This foundation isn't really gonna make any money out of it. Well, they're only gonna get paid by the employees who run this program. But first of all, it's about finding constants... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please!]] ...a source of funding for a very important monument to history. That's what I'm saying. Of course, there is no doubt that there will always be many other different goals for which money could be given. Just to remind you that economics is the science of managing limited resources in a world of unlimited needs. I am a representative of the Minister of Culture, the Ministry of Culture. And what I want most of all is that the material and intangible heritage is preserved. And to be a proper promotion of this heritage. But if I were Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I'd probably be trying to raise as much money as possible for activities related to that department. Thank you very much. [[It's gotta be another way...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u254	Senator Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u255	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, of course I also declare that I am in favour of supporting this type of action, because these are the places that must receive support from the state budget. Their weight is... They are permanently inscribed in the history of Poland. By the way, there is also a place in the Jewish cemetery, on a beautiful cemetery, which every year is becoming more and more underground. In Czestochowa of course It is a place of memory of martyrdom and struggle, because it was a place of destruction of the Jewish people. And somehow nobody cares about the surroundings, which is the whole cemetery, picking up slowly from these ruins, and making this cemetery look better and serve this place better. But ad rem... I wanted to ask you the following question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the act we read that the area of the Jewish Cemetery at ul. Okopowa in Warsaw is owned by the Jewish Religious Community in Warsaw. On the other hand, the Minister said that on the basis of an agreement concluded between the Jewish Religious Community in Warsaw and the Foundation for Cultural Heritage, that is, this cemetery, he is administering this foundation. This raises the question: does the Jewish Religious Community in Warsaw also participate in the conservation work that the foundation runs? That's one thing. [[I asked you that.]] Yes? Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't hear that. Secondly, the activities of the Foundation abroad, mentioned by Senator Jackowski, aimed at protecting and caring for the place of national heritage, are also being carried out, which is also cited as proof that the foundation in various fields shows this activity. Very good. However, from the Minister's words, I have concluded... Because the Minister used such a phrase, that from the funds of the Senate of the Republic of Poland these activities are carried out. Is it, then, Minister, that you perform as the Foundation for Cultural Heritage in the competition? What do we call "Polonia" or "Polonia"? And is it from this source that you fund the tasks you carry out? That, ladies and gentlemen, would mean that... of course, I understand that the foundation draws from various sources... [[Mr. Senator, let me remind you of the time limit.]] Yeah, I'm almost done. But that would mean that the Senate is also supporting these actions by... [[Mr. Senator, I remind you that at 5:00, I have to announce a recess...]] Yes, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u256	...and we have to finish this point and vote for the next point to complete the order. Don't be surprised if we're gonna sit here all night, really... Because you all agree to the questions, to the discussion, and then you're surprised that we're sitting at night. You see what's going on behind... [[But there is no quorum, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question was whether the Jewish community would participate in this. Of course, she'll be a part of it. Well, she entrusted the cemetery board, but she didn't give up all the powers to this cemetery, and they're gonna function within this. If you could just summarize the second question in one sentence... [[The Senate.]] Ah, the Senate! It was so... [[The Senate, but also the Minister, how will the municipality participate...]] [[Excuse me, please answer me, Minister.]] As far as I know, the part of the Polish community is funded by the foundation's activities abroad. [[As part of the contest.]] Yes, as part of the contest.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u258	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of you have signed up for... [[I, I...]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because I started this discussion... Well, I don't want it to look like I'm against the renovation of the Jewish cemetery in Warsaw. I believe that this cemetery, like other Jewish cemeteries, must be renovated, because it is a testimony of our culture, a testimony of our heritage and that Jews also lived with their culture, their religion. However, I would like to say that I would like to see the Polish state renovated in a clear and direct way. But I understand the situation, and I understand that this 100 million zloty has to be spent. I understand that the president met with the Jewish community and that 100 million zlotys have become, will be... If the P.I.S. Senators don't know that, I'm telling you. [[From the Polish state.]] I'm gonna vote for this because it was a good meeting and that money has to be spent. Although it would be better, as I say, if the renovation of this cemetery, which is of course a business card of Warsaw, our relationship with Jews... After all, delegations coming to Warsaw, certainly those from Israel, often go to this cemetery. But I repeat: it would be better if we had time to think, to discuss, to analyze. Maybe this money should also go to other Jewish cemeteries in other places. [[Next year.]] Maybe this should be PLN 150 million. And it would be better if this type of action were carried out directly by the Polish state. Then the situation would be clearer. Because you know how we give money through the Polish Community and do not secure it, we will not make sure that the Polish Community suspends such a tablet saying that it is money from the Senate, i.e. from the Polish budget, that the gifted know only that they have received money from the Polish Community. And that's what it looks like. That's why I had these doubts. But, of course, I will vote in favour. I believe that this renovation must be carried out if there is money, but unfortunately we proceed in the manner in which we proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u260	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As Senator of Wola My constituency includes among others. this neighborhood I am very pleased with this initiative and thank you very much to the Minister for it. Only reservation Of course, I will also vote in favour of this law. It is exactly what Marshal Borusewicz said. And also in the voices of colleagues from Law and Justice it was heard that so much was a sudden, fast, again without any consultation, that even in the bosom of the ruling majority there were questions and certain doubts. I think you could have done it a little differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u262	Senator Warzocha. But the senator can fit in three minutes? Because at 5:00... or after the break? [[We'll extend the exit file.]] [[I'll fit in, of course.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here, however, some comments are needed. Maybe I'll try to put it this way... I am, of course, in favour of such objects, such necropolises as the Jewish cemetery on Okopowa Street to be restauranted, renovated, because this is also part of our cultural, historical heritage, these are very important matters. I used to be a vice-voivode of Silesia, and in the Silesian Voivodeship we also had various difficult cases, which I came to settle with the Jewish Religious Community in Katowice. And they have been solved despite various difficulties and despite the different degrees of progress, I would say that the misunderstanding which resulted from the previously poorly conducted dialogue between the Jewish side and the state administration. And I'm very happy about that, and I'm actually proud of it, and to this day, thanks are coming to me for that. There were other very difficult issues, such as those which required participation of the Polish state, and so we did. But as you rightly pointed out here, Marshal Borusewicz, directly the State Treasury through the authorities of the local government involved and participated in this process also the Jewish Religious Community or various associations or religious associations which represented the Jewish side. I just think that when such a mechanism is created, the parties respect each other more and the effect of all these works is achieved faster, is better and then there is no doubt about it. 'Cause, you know, like... in the town of Lelów Where we managed through very difficult conversations, many years of conversations with Hasidims, with the association of Polish Hasidims, to lead us to the fact that a piece of the territory was devoted together with a fragment of the Jewish cemetery and with the ohel of the Cadic David Biderman, was explained, at this moment and for the future, all kinds of pretensions, misunderstandings, phobias earlier accompanying this conflict, which grew around this problem. Today it is a burial place, it is a place of religious worship, everyone is happy that the whole Hasidic world comes once a year for David Biderman's birthday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u264	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski also volunteered, but we won't be able to make it. I'm declaring a recess until 7:30 p.m.... [[Mr. Marshal, just one minute. Literally one minute, believe me.]] But it's 5:00. [[Believe me...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to support what Marshal Borusewicz said, because that would be a reasonable and good solution, without any doubts. And the other thing. The Senate is also the guardian of NGOs. Mr. Marshal Stanisław Karczewski is at the head of this team. Today we are creating an extraordinarily solution that leads to a high amount of NGOs. We are aware that thousands of Polish organizations will ask us and will ask the Senate on what basis and so they can also be treated in this way, and we will have to find an answer to this question. Thank you for your attention. [[Is it over?]] [[There's no more...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... But it's over. I'm ordering a recess until 7:30. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 00 to 19 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u267	Your Senate, we're reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We are returning to item 8 of the agenda. And we're back to the discussion. About taking... [[Mr. Marshal Borusewicz wanted to, but...]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz wanted to speak... [[There it is, there it is. He's coming in, he's coming in...]] [[No, it's not.]] [[I saw him.]] [[No, it's not. The absent do not have a voice.]] [[He's not here. There isn't, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, High Senate, because the list of speakers has been exhausted... There's no record of anyone making their speech. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. High Senate, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws; print No 679 and consider this item as item 11 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't see the objection. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 679 and the report of the Commission In print No 679 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[Yeah, Packies is the rapporteur.]] I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. [[Where's the Packies?]] Quiet, please! Mr. Senator, I'd like to invite you to the podium. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Sin, take it easy.]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u268	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission leaned over the bill. The bill concerns... The aim is to change the authority responsible for collecting electronic tolls, in particular tolls for motorways. From 1 November 2018, these charges will be charged by the Chief Inspector of Road Transport, in place of the General Director of National Roads and Motorways. Representatives of both the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Chief Inspector for Road Transport were present at the committee meeting. There was also a representative of the current body of the toll collection system, who spoke in substance during the discussion. Ministers answered the questions asked. The Commission recommends to the High Senate that the proposed bill be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u269	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] The bill was filed by the government. To present the government's position in the course of work... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Applause]] ...parliamentals have been authorized... High Izbo! But the break is over! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: We appeal for seriousness!]] We've already finished the recess, we've started the session. I'm asking for peace and seriousness. [[But it's in the PiS...]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Marek Chodkiewicz, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, is with us today. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Marek Chodkiewicz: If there is no need, then no.]] Good. Currently, senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda? Does anyone want to ask that question? [[Kazimierz Klein.]] Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium because there will be questions for you. Senator Klein and Senator Florek. [[They want to take a look at you.]] [[They have the right.]] Please, Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u270	Minister, in the spring of this year or even last year, the idea was presented that the Chief Inspector of Road Transport would be involved in the police structure. Is this an idea that I'm going to say that it's put aside because the inspector gets this right to collect charges? Because in the long run, this formula... If the Chief Road Transport Inspector were to be part of the Police, he probably couldn't be such a tolling institution. So what has changed in this matter, and why? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Marek Chodkiewicz: I already answer...]] One moment, Minister, one moment. Please ask Senator Piotr Florek another question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, why did you start, i.e. the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways has opened proceedings concerning the operation of the National Pay Collection System, and now you are withdrawing from this procedure? And maybe at the same time further questions about the operation of the system so far. Did he work well, or did he have any flaws, or did the operator carry out his duties? Because since you wanted to start a case, and now you're pulling back... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u272	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u273	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, as far as the system is concerned, it's why we started the procedure... The procedure was initiated, as I recall, at the beginning or end of last year. Unfortunately, this procedure was delayed by all interested parties. and today there is actually no guarantee that it would end until the date on which the contract with the private company expires. Therefore, what we are talking about is, in a way, using option B so that it is possible to collect charges from 3 November next year. We don't say the system works badly. We have accepted the idea that the collection of fees and any danins that the State should charge should belong to the State and that this country should be the entity that collects these tributes. In addition, as far as such a practical approach is concerned, at the moment we have in the tender the situation that other participants than the previous company say: well, but all these devices that have been used so far, you have to throw away, because this is an uneven start. So that I think that choosing another system every few years is also harmful to the Treasury or maybe harmless, but it certainly represents an additional expense. And for these reasons, the government has made such a decision, not another one. [[Thank you, Minister...]] If you don't mind, I'll answer again... [[Oh, there you go.]] Excuse me, Senator Kleina asked...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u274	I was asking about... Because government officials have presented such a concept... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Marek Chodkiewicz: I already know.]] ...that the Chief Inspector of Road Transport, as such de facto police cell, will be incorporated into the police structure. Therefore, it would be irrational if it were to be so that the collection would be downloaded by the police.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u275	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u276	I see. This was originally the idea, but after examining the tasks facing the General Inspector for Road Transport, this decision was reviewed. According to my knowledge, no one today wants to eliminate the General Inspector of Road Transport, or perhaps the plans are to take over by the Police the measurement of speed and the consequences resulting from the measurement of speed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u277	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej, you're welcome. Then Mr. Peter Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u278	Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, my question is a little bit, a little bit next door, but since I've written twice to the Ministry and to your facilities, I'd like to know something. Between Warsaw and Łódź there is this system... There are islands that have been prepared to collect tolls for 5 years now. I'd like to know if there's any way... Because there are traffic jams and every time, whether Friday or Christmas, the highway is blocked at the entrance, because there are only two threads. Do you have any idea? Because it's been on for five years and it's not on. I don't mean to say it's just the fault of the last two years. I've asked that question before, too. Is there any way to at least temporarily cut off one island so that this road isn't blocked? Because it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u279	Thank you, Senator, because the minute has passed. Senator Grabowski, you're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have such a question connected with a tender for the collection of fees. I mean the functionality of the system, which is part of the tender. Is this just a toll collection system? I am asking, therefore, that the information I have in many countries shows that systems are already in place which, apart from the toll collection, are able to, so to speak, download other data from passing vehicles. I'm not going to serve the country, but there are systems that, as part of the toll collection system, e.g. are able to inform the relevant authorities that the vehicle has paid insurance. It's just that the license plates are being read, and these data are basically, so to speak, from the machine they go to the database. [[Good. Mr. Senator, it's been a minute...]] Is it possible to expand such a system? Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u281	Dear Senators, I ask for brief questions and... [[Senator Jarosław Rusiecki: I on the subject.]] ...specific to the Minister. Minister, Senator Piotr Florek will ask you a question and you will be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u282	Good. Minister, the question is: does the Chief Inspector of Road Transport have experience in implementing similar systems, or does he have adequate staff? If you could tell me how many people are employed, that would be good, too. And will the Road Transport Inspection order these additional tasks outside? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u283	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u284	I'll answer the senator first. This is the first thing I noticed in the ministry after taking the position that these islands are a little pointless. And the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways is currently preparing an answer to my question. So, if the senator will allow me, I'll answer in writing what decisions we've made, because that's under consideration at the moment. In fact, this situation is not defending itself, and in my opinion it makes absolutely no sense. You should slow down and it's a little pointless. [[There have been accidents.]] Yes. And as far as the senator's answer is concerned, yes, the system can also read other data and these data will be verified. So that the General Inspector for Road Transport will have other data, but that does not mean that he will be able to use this data in any way. Right? As far as the experience of the General Inspector for Road Transport is concerned, the General Inspector for Road Transport is currently overseeing the system, using it, controlling it, knowing the system. We can't see... This isn't some very modern cosmic product, it's really a very simple system, and it seems like we've prepared a way for the general road transport inspector to take over this system... We include national research institutes, we involve the Ministry of Digitization, so the general inspector will not be alone in taking over this system and in developing, after its acquisition, a unified modern system based on satellite technology, one that will, so to speak, deal with all systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u285	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[And Mr. Florek.]] You're still Senator Piotr Florek, aren't you? [[Yes. That's the last of it, 'cause I could ask for a long time, but...]] That's the last question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u286	I have another question for you. Minister, I think it's been seven years since this operator's been operating in this system. I would like to know what the revenue to the budget was to the National Road Fund in connection with this electronic toll collection?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u287	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Marek Chodkiewicz: May I?]] Then answer that question, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u288	Here's the exact data. Since the system began to operate, the National Road Fund has so far reached 8.6 billion and costs amounted to 3.3 billion, i.e. Approximately 38% revenue. So that is also the reason why we want to change this system and take this responsibility as a state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u289	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions for the Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Alexander Pociej. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing you that... [[I'm signing up.]] You're welcome, Senator Piotr Florek. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Legislative proposals. Good. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand you want me to be brief. In accordance with the Act, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways is now in place of the Chief Inspector for Road Transport. This is the fundamental change in this bill. The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways is there at the moment such an exemption It must not commission an external operator to operate this system, and the Road Transport Inspection is in place. As far as this inspection is concerned, as the Minister has said, she has so far supervised and will now supervise and will be an operator, which means that she will simultaneously supervise and carry out these tasks when it comes to the electronic charging system. The Minister explained, as he said, that the state system is better and cheaper. You were talking about the costs they were, about the 38%. Well, we'll see what they'll be like next year, in a year and a half, if this system gets in place. However, any competitive system makes costs lower. A Monopoly And there's going to be a state monopoly again... So here it is absolutely important to consider that these costs will not be any lower. As far as the toll collection system is concerned, we'll see, too. The Minister has so easily said here that the Road Transport Inspection has experience with the system because it supervised it. He's supposed to do it now, so there's a question... I will no longer ask your road inspector whether it is true, whether it is simply because of these deadlines, because you have probably heard that the tender was commissioned practically a year ago and it is already known that it is unlikely to be settled. Therefore, I am not so sure that the Road Transport Inspection is not a sure rescue in this situation. To conclude, I will refer to what the Minister has said here. Well, I recall exactly that in the Law and Justice programme it is stated that the Road Transport Inspection is to be incorporated into the police. So I understand that for the first time, well, maybe there will be more of these cases, the Law and Justice programme will not be implemented. And I know that because I listened to Minister Zieliński, I can invoke reliable sources because I heard it on Radio Maryja. Mr Zieliński and Mr Zieliński said that the Road Transport Inspection will be included in the police. If that were to happen... But the minister said something probably changed here. And if he's not included in the police, he could be the operator. But what will be the result, ladies and gentlemen, in a year's time, we'll see in two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u291	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. High Izbo, I declare four minutes... [[No, the club asked for 15 minutes.]] 15 minutes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I didn't hear about it, so... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm acting on behalf of the Civic Platform...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. That's an adjournment until 20.01. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Don't you want a break?]] [[Yeah, we're gonna need a 10-minute break.]] The break has already been announced by 20.01. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 51 to 20 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u292	I'm reopening the session. [[The Senators of the Civic Platform Club put a plaque on their desktops with the inscription: FREE JUDGES, FREE SELECTIONS, FREE POLAND]] Ladies and gentlemen, before voting, I would like to inform you that by electronic means you have been informed by the Seniors Convention of the revised timetable for the work of the Senate on the 2018 Budget Act. The adoption of the 2018 budget by the Sejm is planned at its meeting on 11 January 2018 and the Senate meeting on the subject is planned on 17 to 19 January 2018 and not, as previously planned, on 9 to 11 January 2018. The work of the Senate committees on this law is scheduled for 15 and 16 January 2018. [[January 17, 19th...]] The Senate meeting on the budget law is scheduled to take place from 17 to 19 January. I will no longer read how it was before, because it is unnecessary The Commission's work will be carried out on 15 and 16 January 2018. You were informed by electronic means that the next Senate meeting would begin next week on 19 January at 11 a.m. [[Voices from the hall: December.]] December, I'm sorry. It's December next week. Sorry, I made a mistake, December 19th. We're accelerating because we don't want to work long. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 686 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u293	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The High Commission requests the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u294	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senators Jan Rulewski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Marek Borowski, Piotr Florek and Aleksander Pociej also submitted their conclusions during the discussion. The rapporteur for the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions was Senator Jan Rulewski. Would you like to speak? You're welcome. [[Senator Jan Rulewski approaches the podium, holding a mask from the Greek tragedy with Polish national colours]] [[Mask Man.]] [[You can wear a mask like that all day long.]] [[Senator Bonkowski takes out a postcard with a handwritten inscription: Free courts from criminals]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, you can't do that!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe you can't. I'm ready to negotiate. As you've noticed, I've even taken the first step, but my condition is that you lose your masks too. [[You're all...]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, let's not disturb the senator. The senator is giving a speech. Please don't disturb me. You're welcome, Senator.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The minority's motion fell at a committee meeting. I admit it. I think you'll agree with that, too. That the conditions were not conducive to reflection. Speed of work, tense atmosphere, even the fact that we are widely watched by public opinion, by opponents and supporters It's all come true to me, too... Well, your overly sensitive Marshal Blanket... Which I'm sorry about. [[Applause]] But that doesn't change the fact that in the previgil atmosphere as a political class, we didn't pass the exam. We're far from reflection. The nearest streets and squares do not surround the tree. Yes, there are lights on, but police bitches, and young people remind us of the constitution. [[Chanting demonstrating under the Senate building: Freedom! Equality! De-mo-cracja!]] The constitution in which they are written, in which they are deeply written, precisely formulated provisions on the National Judicial Council. We accuse colleagues, but first of all maybe Mr President, that he did not benefit from the social truce that prevailed after thousands of demonstrators in a peaceful mood and with full hope raised his forehead to face the customers of Minister Ziobra and Mr Kaczyński. He did not exercise his authority and instead came first to the Sejm and then to the Senate with the same goat. I would say more: he also did not take advantage of the dialogue, in line with the rules of modern democracy. But not dialogue with politicians. For the reform of the judiciary, so-called. judicial reform is not for politicians. Politicians are well aware of how to avoid rigor or not to submit to justice. It is these few million people who are recipients and participants in numerous trials. And that's what I'm gonna charge first: that he broke... And you have confirmed that with your actions, you have violated the principles of the democratic law-making process. For you, the right is a voting device in this or the previous House, which is hindered by various other acts... hence the assault of judges, the institution of the courts, the supposedly their system, but it is really about their independence and independence. And that's the first charge, the constitutional one, in our minority proposal. We say that power by all means... that executive power, understood as government, also in control of the media, and the president engaged in a dialogue, hidden, under attack. We saw yesterday a moved professor defending our freedom so that today we could speak, argue, argue. But that's not what our charges are about. We are accusing this bill, which is written on only nine pages... [[Since when did you start talking to the senator?]] ...that violates other procedures contrary to those opinions which are directed from within the judiciary, so to speak, from within the public opinion, but also from friends spread around the world, through the American departments, President Trump and from the Brussels seat of our fellow Members, MEPs, senators, also officials. They're accusing us of violence, making decisions every day. It was probably only on Friday last week that the Sejm learned about the accounts or about the tutors that Mr Piotrowicz gave to the doctor of rights Jarosław Kaczyński and such, also the doctor of rights, President Andrzej Duda. We don't agree to this tutoring. They breathe the spirit of the PZPR! And that's not an exaggeration. I'm far from personal attacks. They breathe this spirit, even because the central authority, whatever it is, intends to make changes away from the actors of these changes, away from the public, in secret. That's the spirit of the PZPR. Away... Of course, propaganda did the opposite and otherwise. In this bill they see... Not us, but lawyers, high-end lawyers, who have a scientific, publicistic, deep practice, and who have been through hard trials over the past many years in difficult matters of systemic change and which need to be applied, as with us, understanding... 'Cause maybe there's something here or someone else, although maybe you shouldn't be here. But the crystallity... Some people can be blamed. Probably starting with me. And certainly two big, important anti-communist opponents, the Kaczyński brothers, that, using the achievements of the Center for Citizens' Initiatives in Krakow, around which the Jagiellonian professors and Mr. Romaszewski, and Prof. Strzembosz... And it was they who defined in the constitution, which the nation later approved, not only the principle of three divisions of power, but also the existence of the National Council of Courts. Its existence was not only to emphasize this three-way, this chapter of these three authorities, but also the cooperation of these authorities. And here we accuse that the state with the reformer Peterovich is carrying out an assassination by the fact that the legislative authority will in fact be able to take over up to 80% functions in the National Judicial Council, even though the legislator has clearly indicated that there are places there In a large number of cases And for the legislative authority, and for the executive authority. You haven't convinced anyone here that there is no such place that these places functioned... I'm sorry to say that he deserted... I think I'll be honest with you. He didn't have enough knowledge to argue with lawyers, professors, Mr. Ziobro. Because it's easy to office from behind a desk of power, give orders and commands, and it's hard to win arguments. And that is the first plea, constitutionally, that the legislative authority is attempting to assassinate the independence and independence of the courts. As I said before... This is reflection. They ask me why I say this is a state of emergency in court or even martial law. Mr. Marshal, let me explain. Well, when martial law was introduced... [[But...]] ...the courts... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the courtroom: This is a martial law...]] That's what I'm talking about. martial law. I know some of you were hiding, some of you slept through it. But we became customers... [[Mr. Senator...]] We became customers... [[I ask that in my speech without personal tours...]] I'd rather go back to... [[You're welcome, because you're clearly...]] ...to the Supreme Court of martial law, to which... [[Okay, but you said... Mr. Senator, I don't know if you know and you're aware of what you're saying right now...]] [[...to offend someone.]] I'm aware. [[Good.]] I heard someone fell asleep... [[Borusewicz...]] Well, in a martial state, it happened that after the courts... that even the courts raised in the PZPR culture, in democratic centralism, they had a conscience... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] They had a conscience and sentences that didn't meet the demands of the state of martial law. And then, in the Supreme Court, an inspection of the review of judgments was made. Doesn't that sound... I don't mean to think it sounds the same, but doesn't it sound that way when we're talking about this disciplinary section, which isn't just about investigating alcoholic judges, bribers or other criminals? She's supposed to investigate the crimes of judges, all judges, lawyers, prosecutors, counselors, notaries. And not just today, and not tomorrow, but 40 years, 37 years back, under the rule of the Sovereign Constitution... The second charge we make is a charge that is supported by scientific thought, a thought that covers the whole of Europe, even the monarchies. This is the fact that if you're already making changes, you put in a time ultimatum. And in just a few days, there is to be a purge of almost 50/60% of the judge's squad. [[It's about time.]] In particular, the President of the Supreme Court, whose constitutional position is defined at the level of the available awareness and knowledge of a six-year-old or even a seven-year-old from the Minister's school, was placed under the footage. Yes, you gave the president a chance as a judge, but at the same time you offer her Seppuku. That, even if she gave her consent, we as lawyers... Sorry, as senators, we can't agree. Another charge is that this purgatory is to be carried out on the basis of changes in the legislation called the Minister of Pension. And here was an interesting situation. Indeed, the Minister has made an amazing slalom for master Bachleda. He got out of it so that the first president of the Supreme Court compared it to the rector of a private school, which we seem to have shortened our term of office, and sometimes there were employees who we supposedly took away... we reduced the retirement age. And I'd say this: this comes to me because it's nearest... In such a well - known American film, the Marx brothers were called. There's one of those Marx brothers. And he's using various riposts to prove that the dictator is supporting elephants, they're going to war with him, that dolphins are walking, cows are flying... [[Joy in the Chamber]] And when you ask one of the Marx brothers... [[We need a doctor.]] Have you fainted, Senator? Mr. Marshal, someone's collapsed... [[We need a doctor.]] [[You need a doctor.]] But you're calling a doctor... [[Mr. Senator, please get to the point.]] The answer to that question is that the flush doesn't work because it's old. [[Get to the point.]] Yeah, let's get to the point. [[Well, let's get to the point.]] This is a film that showed the mechanisms of different authorities. I do not want to claim that it has and should concern Poland, but something is going on. And to the point... So it was in this pension scheme that you allowed yourself, contrary to the case law, which you presented very beautifully and illustrated here, Senator Silence. Shorten, reduce your position as the first president of the Supreme Court, offering her seppuku. [[Hello, this is Earth...]] I'd like to respect your time... [[Seppuku...]] ...I'd also like to slow down my emotions and... [[Hello, this is Earth...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Let's not disturb the senator, please.]] [[Mr. Marshal, really...]] I will refer to your request... [[Voice from the room: Formal application...]] ...which you reported to Senator Martynowski, automatic as usual. We're gonna vote, that's right, we're gonna vote mostly... Well, let's leave it on the side as something routine. But there was this voice, and there was, let's say, a thread of hope in saying that we still have the Constitutional Tribunal, that there is still a president. So I say we don't use it, Professor... [[And Brussels.]] [[Voice from the hall: And in Moscow...]] ...from the offer of the Constitutional Court. Even if you do not pay attention to what has happened to him and what his personal jurisdiction is, I find that the Court is not another instance of Parliament. [[Ooh!]] The Constitution in the section on Parliament's rights and obligations, including the Senate, requires us to create laws, and good laws. The Constitutional Tribunal can only control this, but it cannot be an institution of appeal. It's said Mr. President can... Unfortunately, we cannot accept such an offer either, because the President has lost his ability to distinguish, to choose between the veto and the next project... [[Don't insult the president...]] Yeah, tonight he doesn't know if he's behind the veto or if he's behind the new project. In our opinion, this new project This is the same as it was, only in a different form, in which the executive authority in the form of the President plays a greater role. [[Don't change into change.]] I'd say No offense, it could be an insult to something completely different. That there is still a belief in the Presidential Palace: I am for it and even against it. [[Applause]] [[Janek, that's not nice.]] We cannot accept the capitulation for such an offer, because we would cancel out what we have created, the face that we have, without a mask, and the future that Poles are asking for. It's not for this system. [[Applause]] I promise, Mr. Marshal... [[And the face of the judge from Sawicka?]] ...even though you zoomed in before Christmas Eve... [[What about that judge from Sawick? It was the Platform Judge.]] ...a feeling of despair that we won't give up. [[Have you ever been called a judge?]] The nation will rise after this despair. [[Yes, it will.]] He's gonna get up. We're gonna get up and go, but we're not gonna step down. [[Applause]] [[You've wasted 25 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u296	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[I'm handing this mask over.]] [[Senator Jan Rulewski gives the mask to Senator Adam Bielan]] Mr. Senator, please... [[Bravo, you've wasted 25 years.]] ...go to your place and sit down. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, right? Do you wish to speak, Mr. Marshal? [[Yeah, yeah.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u297	Mr. Marshal, thank you so much for giving me that right. [[Yet...]] I will fight for my rights. And I'm fighting for my rights. Nobody has any doubts about this: I'm not just gonna be alone, and I'm not just alone. The bill we're talking about here is a fatal act. She's unconstitutional, Mr. Marshal, and according to the rules of procedure, you shouldn't put her to the vote. [[That's what an outstanding lawyer says.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because you have the right to pre-judge such a bill. And there's a rule in the rules that says that the Marshal's Unconstitutional Act may not be subject to... Not only may it be, but it is not put to the vote. This is a non-constitutional law, because it clearly violates the constitution, shortens the term of office of the National Judicial Council, a term which lasts 4 years and is, I repeat, enshrined in the Constitution. This is a law that allows the ruling party, at the moment of Law and Justice, to take control of the courts, to appoint judges. It is a terrible act and consequences of this law for Poland will last for a very long time, fatal, bad consequences. We know now and we see that the presidential veto was an apparent procedure, because this bill that came back after the veto is almost the same. Almost the same. And he's got the same flaws that the president's bill vetoed. I understand there's been an end to an argument in the family, in the PiS family. The bill is being proceded and will be voted on in a moment, although the veto concerning this law has not been voted on. How is it that there is a presidential veto and the Sejm does not vote, that the vote on the veto is not implemented in the Sejm, but we are proceeding on a completely new law? I've been paying attention. It's a serious delicacy. This has not been the case so far. This delicacy will be important for judging the procedure over this bill. And finally, Mr. Marshal, what I'm trying to say is that I'm glad no one's bothering you... [[What do you mean, no, how did you...]] [[The judge on the phone...]] I'm glad no one's bothering you in this room, although during my predecessor's speech I heard a lot of shouts. And you, Mr. Vice-Marshal. [[I was like the famous Senator's interview...]] I heard you, Mr. Vice-Marshal, screaming. I'd like to conclude by saying that it's not good to act by surprise as well. We found out about the vote less than 10 minutes before... [[July.]] [[Well, Mr. Senator, this is...]] ...before the break that lasted 10 minutes... [[So we're not gonna vote? Do you propose not to vote at the end of the meeting?]] Mr. Marshal, it's a good custom, especially in the case of votes on these kinds of laws, it's just... [[Do you know how to vote?]] ...that we determine and the marshal informs during the Senior Convention... [[And when you're a marshal...]] You did it by surprise. Luckily we were, we came back... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[How?]] [[Mr. Marshal, you are currently...]] ...and you didn't vote without us. [[Where did you come from?]] [[Mr. Marshal, you're in this...]] We were outside the Senate. [[It's the senator's duty to be in the courtroom.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u298	Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry. You're insulting my intelligence and intelligence of 100 senators right now. Well, not 100, sorry, but you're insulting... Mr. Marshal, I must... [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. [[I'm gonna end up with this, and I'm gonna take the floor at the next bill, which is a terrible, unconstitutional...]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I will allow myself this time ad vocem to comment on your speech, Mr Marshal, and to explain to you and your colleagues that all the senators have been repeatedly informed that we will vote on the laws after the agenda has been exhausted. [[And everyone understands that.]] And you know very well that we are done and that we must vote. Unless you're filing a formal motion to vote tomorrow. There you go, sir. You have the right, and you can report it. Thank you very much. Well, I'm very sorry. You've offended a lot of intelligent senators here. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 26 for, 61 against. [[Voting No 10]] The motion to reject the law was rejected. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 60 for, 26 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and certain other laws. We return to the second agenda: the Supreme Court Act. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 685 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, the senator, Marshal Michael Sewerynski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Human Rights Commission voted by a majority to adopt the law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u300	Very much so, Mr. Marshal, thank you. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? In the course of the discussion, you submitted conclusions to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Piotr Wach, Mr Marek Borowski. In addition, Senator Alexander Pociej was the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. Senator Alexander Pociej, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To this law, reservations, as numerous and very similar as in the case of the amendment of the Act on the National Judicial Council, were expressed very strongly. I will not repeat them because, indeed, for four days, including committee meetings, we have considered this and repeatedly these arguments have been made. I would like to hope that this vote is not a completely automatic vote, that we as the Higher House, the House of reflection, can consider at least And here I am addressing my colleagues in Law and Justice. On the application of the Attorney General. Well, the Attorney General has made it quite clear to all of us with the argument that the adoption of this law in the form that is now being proposed, i.e. without any amendment and without a shift of the vacathio legis in the issue of an emergency complaint, not only will it not produce any positive results, but it can completely block the existing path of exceptional repression of judgments, i.e. the deletion. In a letter that each of us received from the Attorney General, it is quite clearly stated that without money and this law does not provide for any measures This law will not work in this respect. And you asked the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, to have the Senate approve the amendment and extend the suspension of this emergency complaint for at least a year. You have, we have all had the opportunity here to listen to the voice from a completely different angle, which sounded exactly the same. Well, the Ombudsman, who is dealing with the exact same problem every day, has addressed you, to us, with the same request. He said he didn't have any money, no way to serve what we're making right now. I hope... And I will consider it a test of whether we have any significance in the legislative process, whether we are capable of any, but it is any reflection, or whether we will raise our hands from the vending machine just because we have something like this in the process. This is a very serious problem. And this is a test for whether we have any influence on what is going on in this legislative process. If not, actually, after all the arguments that really come from the state, from your camp... If you don't take that into account, it's gonna mean we're sitting here like fakes. [[They're sitting, not us.]] Thank you very much. And I ask all of you to show that, at least in this respect, the Senate has something to say. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u302	I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees. [[Mask, mask give him... take that mask away.]] [[Voice from the room: Two masks...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Ryszka insists on one additional mask, but their number is limited and not widespread. Besides, you have to earn it, Senator. Besides, you have a good mask. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal, High Izbo... [[Mr. Senator, please, get to the point.]] Yeah, yeah. I just want to get to the point, and even in my opinion, I'm going to exceed your expectations... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...because this time I will not accuse anyone of anything or resort to rhetorical grips, demagogy. Today I'm going to speak in spirit, I'd say... [[Love.]] ...ecumenical and Christmas Eve. [[Thank you very much.]] Yeah, the list of charges is here... Of course, this bill, unlike the National Judicial Council Act... [[Voice from the courtroom: About the court.]] ...is richer and therefore this, I'll say so politely, list of potential mistakes... [[She's better.]] ...is obviously bigger. But that's not what I'd like to talk about, because other people have spoken here, more precisely, better. I would like to argue with this allegation that this is a reform. It's definitely an exchange of people. I've been talking about this. In most ways and methods not very elegant, where the word dignity probably means the least. But you're using a very catchy argument. You say that this is part of the reform or directly: reform. My language may be taken from the field of technology, but I understand the reform so that it is a change of some relationship, some modernisation, some new solutions, some science. And then we're talking about the modernity of reform. Because reform can also run backwards, like for example... Some senators were talking about the 16th century, about the Seyms. So you're referring to the fact that this is a reform. I am the one making the request of minorities and the elements of the reform I do not see here. You're using the argument that it's a social order. However, it goes a bit in dispute that this order is not consulted with those who expect it. Yeah, but I was just... Coming to my offices, just like those coming to yours. Maybe they're the same people because I know they walk like this. They also want changes, real changes to meet expectations. But these people are demanding more than just a reform of the Supreme Court. They are really demanding justice, and they are articulating it as a reform of the justice system. Justice begins with prosecution, then accusations, and finally it leads to judgment and maybe also imprisonment. And if so, of course it's a shortcut, and I'm not new here. The Attorney General says it's just a cloud, what do you say... and it's the tip of the iceberg. Because these people's expectations are bigger. They certainly do not expect many degrees of judgment. It is best that the law that we create here eliminates the need to stand before the courts in advance. But if we have to appear in court, it would be best for this first degree to rule fairly. And if he's gonna make a statement, he's gonna have enough instruments. Of course, to keep the time, the deadlines. These instruments, of course, consist of powers... How about this: first of all, it's about not being a lawyer, but just so the defendant knows how the trial is going to go, how long he's gonna have to wait, when he finds out about... whether it's gonna be sudden or the defendant's ever gonna know where it's going to be... In other words, the point is whether he'll have an Internet view of the trial. And, of course, in the context of justice, this access should be cost-independent, of course, of the courts, but also the costs of the proxy and these experts. That's what he wants this law to be realized. And finally, that sentence comes to pass. There's a ruling, there's a sentence. Although a court across the country is looking for a defendant or a defendant. And here comes the most critical phase. I think you'll agree that it's in our best interest that this stays... I'll say, travesty: execution, fool! We all call out, people call out, execution! Well, there are 300,000 convictions, so many cases have already been tried, so many decisions have been given in favour of the people who have been maintained, and the level of execution is 10%. ! Prisons created in the past, about European standards, in 1/3 are empty, and prisoners... excuse me, accused and convicted scooters, running around the world. The police are looking for them, they're inviting them... [[That's what happened all the time...]] Come on. If that's the case... [[And that's what we want to change.]] Those to whom the cost has been judged, cry out for help, go to the bailiff But she's powerless by the bailiffs. The senator here is taking part in the work to discipline it, but she's still powerless! The tax administration turned out to be powerless. The state was powerless! What is a man to do who has a declaration of enforceability, and still can't wait ten years to get even elementary justice in the execution of this judgment? You're saying there's gonna be a judicial review here. This is a good solution to this extraordinary review, according to the lawyers, as we have heard, because this long time, this diarrhea of terms and addresses, in fact, is already missing the attention of the justice system. Then let me repeat: execution, you fool! Or maybe three times. I promised Mr. Marshal, also in response to Senator Czerwinski's appeal, that we are not just denying... So I've personally tabled some amendments. From such a simple... Why was this law granted to the Supreme Court judges living on the Warsaw border the right to a service apartment? Yeah, but it's nothing. You admitted, although such a judge lives in Warsaw. But the most important thing is, ladies and gentlemen, apart from this wave of junk deals. That I'm already allergic to and about which I'm making accusations to the justice system that he hasn't dealt with this problem... In any case, the second plea, the second social challenge, is the congestion of payments. The problem has not been solved for years. These are payment congestions that not only parties can deal with, arbitration, but also economic courts can't deal with it. And the proposal is But she's not in this bill... Well, there is much talk in this bill about disciplinary court, about jurors, about control, about supervision, there are motivational proposals, but there are three words about the economy, that is, economic courts. And there's 2 million entities, let's say there's 1.5 million of them. Many of them cannot develop, they cannot fulfil their obligations not only to themselves, but also to ordinary citizens, because they are so-called. payment congestion. Companies are dying because there are speculations on the stock market, including big companies, because there is a very complicated financial law that many of the most important people in the country cannot deal with, despite many jobs. That's why my proposal is to use one word or actually three words Do not place in the Civil Chamber, between the family code and the civil code, economic affairs. My proposal is for the Supreme Court to establish an economic chamber, which would be a continuation, as it were, of all the economic departments of the subordinate courts. And that's my message. I think, Mr. Marshal, I surprised you. [[No, you can't surprise me.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u304	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u305	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I filed a motion to reject this law, as did the previous one. This law is even worse than the National Judicial Council Act because it is more dangerous. It lists 40% of the current Supreme Court. He's breaking the constitution where there's a six-year term of office of the Supreme Court President. If someone can't count to six, they can still learn. There's a six-year term written down there. So it's breaking the constitution straight. This law also causes me to have serious concerns about the forthcoming parliamentary elections, because it is the Supreme Court that evaluates and determines whether the elections were valid. The composition of the Supreme Court and its authority also depends on whether those who win the election, but also those who lose the election, have reservations about whether or not they have reservations. It will depend on the authority and credibility of the Supreme Court and will depend on it. And you're questioning that authority! So I'm just saying, what's the deal with the Supreme Court? Is it about working faster, better and better? There are no records that improve it and that will make it faster, better and more efficient. But there are records that will give more control to the judicial authority. This is a violation of the fundamental principle not only of the Polish Constitution, but also of the fundamental principle of the rule of law. That is why I will not only vote against this bill, but I protest that it will be passed in a moment. You're gonna feel bad about this... [[Voices from the room: No! No!]] Yeah, 'cause we're gonna see how this bill works, and you're gonna see how it works. You won't always and you won't continue to rule, but you'll also be in opposition. [[Eight years is enough.]] And will any of you remember that then? Then I hope you understand how this bill works. [[It's just too late.]] That's why I'm definitely against her. Not just me, but the crowds that come in every day that you hear... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[That's good.]] Don't laugh! [[The voice from the room: The tape recorder let them turn on...]] [[Voice from the hall: They are waiting for tea.]] Don't laugh! Don't laugh at these people! [[Voices from the hall: From this crowd we laugh...]] Don't laugh at these people! [[Voices from the hall: Oh, these crowds of people!]] I remember how many there were! And now there are a lot of those who have been! Everyone wants to add up. And he's doing well. And it's turning on! [[Voice from the room: Why? It's one side...?]] Thank you. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much...]] Mr. Marshal... [[Yes?]] ...it's a bill we shouldn't vote on and you shouldn't put it to the vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u306	Thank you. But you're wrong. But thank you, sir. Senator Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will speak briefly because my speech concerns only one aspect, but a very critical aspect of the bill that we are to vote on. Namely, among at least four important cases that have been criticised here and which have serious suspicions about their unconstitutionality... The amendment I tabled concerns Article. 37, in which the retirement age changes not so much as the compulsory retirement of the Supreme Court judges. This age, according to this article. 37, is reduced to 65 years, which will force a number of Supreme Court judges to complete their duties and shorten the term of office of the first Supreme Court President, who is about this age. The alternative is to vestige the judges. I mean, they're basically going to Canossa... in the sense that they're asking the president for an extension, without the criteria they're supposed to meet, and actually without any certainty. What's it gonna end with? Or maybe it'll end with the judge's humiliation. And that's what I call vassalization. The proposal I have made is to leave the age of 70, but it does not affect the President's initiative and idea, because it makes these 2 periods... possible three-year periods, which are included in the article. 37, remain and are, as a supplement, refer to a further possible extension of the operation of the judge. This proposal has many advantages. It has efficiency advantages, which may not be the most important here, but above all removes the presumption of unconstitutionality. In addition, it removes the very serious suspicion that the blade of this law is of a personal nature, aimed at sweeping out a number of judges of its own motion, and in particular the first President. The conclusions are clear. Please accept this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u308	Thank you very much. I understand that all senators entitled to speak have already spoken, except for Senator Marek Borowski. Mr. Senator, do you wish to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Then we shall proceed to the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee and the motion by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 26 for, 61 against. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 58 were in favour, 26 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Supreme Court Act. [[Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you!]] We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on the Limitation of... [[Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you!]] Please don't disturb me... Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the hall: It's not a stadium.]] [[...outside.]] Please keep the peace and seriousness of this House. Okay? We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Trade Reduction Act on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 668 Z. Thank you very much to the representatives of the President Ms Zofia Romaszewska, Minister Paul Musta and Minister Annie Surówce-Pasek. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This report can be found in print No 668 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Joint Committees of Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation recommend the adoption of amendments 1, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 22. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u310	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur want to speak yet? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Senators' possible appearances... Senator Marek Borowski, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Alexander Pociej submitted their conclusions during the discussion. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Care for the rights of workers working on Sundays It's a noble thing. Doing this wisely is a great art. What you're proposing doesn't go against these people. That's what the other instruments we're proposing are for. [[In the background you can hear the chanting of demonstrations under the Senate building: Shame-ba! Shame on you! Shame on you!]] And in the course of the debate, other ideas and worldview motives were revealed, which were behind this presentation. I would like to make it clear that whatever our convictions are, the administrative prohibition of anything in the conditions of freedom, administrative, official, by means of regulations, the regulation of social customs is merely the embezzlement of other people's freedom. When we look at the years that have passed, in the context of this law, we see that you are still putting a new sign on the "stop": those who would like to decide what contraceptive measures to use; [[Voice from the room: What is he talking about?]] ...to those who want to decide who they're involved with for life; [[Oh, no!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...to those who would like to decide for themselves... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, yeah, that's it. [[And the senator calls the Pope.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Those who... [[Get to the point.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But, Senator, please don't comment.]] [[But there's nothing to laugh about who wants to tie their lives to.]] [[Mr. Senator, please don't comment. People laugh at different jokes, different reactions.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, please don't comment.]] I think that all of Poland and also... [[Voice from the room: Full.]] [[All of it.]] ...light hierarchs see and hear that laugh when I talk about partner relationships. [[Voice from the room: But what are you talking about?]] You put up a sign with this... [[But, Senator...]] ...who would like to... [[Mr. Marshal, is this about?]] ...at his discretion... [[But you're welcome, Mr. Senator...]] [[Trade on Sunday...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Please, get to the point.]] I'm saying, I'm saying... [[Voice from the room: This is not a partnership...]] [[To the point, to this bill. We're not talking about philosophy, our worldview... please, get to the point.]] Good. [[Because I don't see the connection between partnership and trade on Sunday. Yeah, well, let's get to the point.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] For those who would like to have children in vitro, you say "stop." [[The voice from the hall: Jesus...]] And that's one... [[Mr. Senator, I'm asking for things! It's not so, it's the Senate!]] I want to show you... [[This isn't a party rally, Senator!]] I want to show you, Mr. Marshal... [[This isn't a party rally, to the point!]] ...that in this act there is another sign of "stop" which you place to Poles who, according to any research, do not want this. I appeal: let's help together those who want to stay home on Sunday, those who work... [[Secure the entertainment you need...]] ...but let's not interfere with who and where... [[And with whom!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ... wants to go, and with whom... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I want to go with my family... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Why don't I turn that mic around, then... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...you'll hear better. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I would like to say, Senator, that Senator Fedorovich, who was protesting a moment ago, is also smiling so you know.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Okay... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator's smile makes me very happy, and everyone else's laughter is dead. I want to tell you, Mr. Marshal... [[There you go.]] ...and consummate... [[You're welcome, Senator.]] ...your speech: enough of these bans, listen to Poles, let us do what they want us to do, and let us not go across what they want. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u312	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rulewski reporting. Yes? You're welcome. You're on a list of senators who can speak. You're welcome, Senator. [[I want one too, Mr. Marshal.]] No, no. I've already read it, Mr. Senator, who can. Senator Rooster doesn't. [[If I didn't, how did I make the amendments? Excuse me...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I may step down, Mr. Marshal, but only the platform room.]] Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, I'll explain this to Senator Rooster. You're not on this list because you put forward a legislative proposal, not during the discussion, but at the committee meeting. So that you could express your opinion at the time. You can't tell her by the book right now. Thank you very much. [[That's what I'm honoring.]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let us remind you that Sunday's trade-free issue was brought about by the citizens' initiative and concerned all Sundays. It has been confirmed repeatedly, although in national media, by you the former Prime Minister Szydło and the current Prime Minister Morawiecki. We have a duty as an opposition. In particular, I, having some practice in labour matters, have a trade union to demand that this election promise be fulfilled. [[Four Sundays off...]] [[And Mondays off!]] We can't repeat the scenario with the soup, be like the Freedonia state. We are the Polish People's Thing. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: Elephants, cows...]] That's why I don't think I'm hiding... it's not a strong voice... it's actually a certain response to the hot discussions and the big divisions around this problem. If I propose an amendment that all Sundays should be free for the owners of self-employed shops to be open until 1 p.m., then I submit it in order to block the discussion in which a simple argument is used. Not simple, but simple. It is said: I have the right to choose freely when I want to buy and trade. That's what they say, but more politely. I want you to be comfortable. It's convenient to buy whenever you want and wherever you want. And not only on Sunday, but also at night. And I say, comfort yes, freedom yes, but not at the expense of someone's dignity. [[Applause]] This dignity is recognized by all civilizations, believers and non-believers. Even the communists respected the seventh day as a day of rest. Hungarians are talking about some reflection backwards, for today and tomorrow. It's about being together, in the family, and not necessarily in the store. And certainly not at the expense of nearly a million people who are not an institution of commerce. They're people standing on the other side of the counter. Developed countries have dealt with this problem differently. They first solved the problem of working on Sundays in such a way that they replaced power with human machines, robots. There's a digital cloud today. And a trade reform, that's exactly what modernism should be about. Buying on the Internet with home delivery is better than bargaining and intrusive promotions. And what's all this for? To get away from the Internet, not to argue, not to judge, to pursue, to submit to noisy propaganda and noisy advertising. It's not true that a lot of people are gonna lose their jobs. Even if that were the case, I think the Minister would be happy about it, Senator Radziwielł. Health Services are missing nurses, nurses. More important social needs must be met than the right to convenience, which is notabene. And it's not true that they're gonna lose it... the government of Mrs. Szydło was very keen on foreign companies, mostly foreign companies, not losing them. For them, man didn't exist. He wasn't getting up from his knees. This government cared very much for the companies to make money. If they were, they wouldn't be investing. Why is there so much pressure? Because trade in 2017 in Poland is that labour costs nothing. There's employment for work contracts, trash contracts, there's volunteer work... [[Is that a vote in favour or against in the end? I'm asking because I don't know.]] [[Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, ……]] That's the cost. It can make a lot of money without sacrificing anything, possibly sacrificing someone's dignity, someone's life. Final conclusion. Let's look at what's upstairs, not what's downstairs. Let us see how these problems are solved by 20 developed countries. To what do they strive? Not just on Sundays off work, off trade. They're pursuing a weekend civilization. Why is this worth doing? Because in such a civilization, cultural, scientific, political life takes place on the weekend when there is time. [[For or against?]] I'm twice against the government's combinations, which suddenly sent a well-deserved minister here, a union man, to cover it all up. So I'm all over Sundays... [[I want the weekend off.]] All weekend. Extra request... [[The voice from the room: What is it...]] Mr. Marshal, I know you've always spoken to me with sympathy... [[Are you talking to me?]] Yeah. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Somehow bank aristocracy doesn't work on Saturdays and Sundays, although money is needed to trade. [[ATMs are here, ATMs.]] [[Well, you don't know, Mr. Marshal...]] What? Am I going to be a marshal? Yes! [[We don't know.]] One more request. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not religious or even personal... or a matter of popularity, an attempt to build something or demagoguery. It's just... It's been like this for thousands of years! We're the ones who changed it, in minus. And what else have we changed? This was just a moment ago, or rather an hour ago, two hours ago, and the Swedish Minister unfortunately defended it. Well, the second amendment I want to say would be a ban on any alcohol trade on Sunday. Because there's no need to... There's no need to open stores, run other servants so someone can buy booze. Let us therefore vote for a healthy society, for its dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In a healthy body, a healthy spirit!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u314	Ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Let's have a drink.]] [[Let's make a toast.]] Do any of the senators mentioned a moment ago want to speak? [[No, no, no.]] [[Voice from the room: Not anymore.]] No, but does anyone else want to speak? [[Joy in the Chamber]] No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 22 against, 64 against. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 2 aims to prohibit trade in marketing activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 2 for, 79 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 3 clarifies that the prohibition of trade does not cover fuel stations where the area for sale and exposure other than the fuel of goods does not exceed 80 m2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted against, 2 against, 78 against, 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 4 clarifies the provision in order to indicate that a trade ban will not apply in a trading establishment where the dominant activity is to trade flowers and not in any trading establishment called a florist. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Are you asking me to give you the results? 85 senators voted, 61 for, 22 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 18]] Amendments 5 and 19 should be voted on together. They aim to make trade in commercial establishments for festivals, fairs and occasional events conditional upon the approval of local government or government authorities, depending on the extent of the event and the procedure for issuing it. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 1 for, 83 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 6 aims to clarify the provision for admission of trade at stations only in commercial establishments with an area of not more than 80 m2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 5 for, 77 against, 4 abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 7 will rule out... If we accept this amendment, Amendment 8 will be excluded. Amendment 7 seeks to complete the catalogue of exemptions from the ban on trade in first sale centres for fish, sales of fish on board, fishing holdings, establishments for the marketing of fishery and aquaculture products and trade in such products. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 80 votes against, no one opposed, five abstentions. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 9 aims at adapting the terms used in the law to the terminology used in the legal system. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 83 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 10 clarifies the provision in order to indicate that the exemption from the trade ban is intended to apply to trading facilities in military units rather than garrisons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 61 votes against, 24 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 11 aims to exclude direct sales from the ban. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 26 votes against, 59 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 12 clarifies the provision in order to indicate that trade will be excluded from the trade ban by an entrepreneur who is a natural person himself, on his own behalf and on his own account. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 61 votes against, 23 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 13 clarifies the provision in order to indicate that the trade ban will not apply in a commercial establishment where the dominant activity is to trade bakery and pastry products, not in any commercial establishment called a bakery, confectionery or ice cream shop and will also trade goods other than bakery products, confectionery in any proportion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 82 for, 2 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 14 seeks to complete the catalogue of exemptions from the trade ban for commercial establishments where catering activities are mostly carried out. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 84 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 15 aims to clarify the provision by indicating that operators purchasing goods in agri-food wholesale markets do not perform buying-in activities but trade-related activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 60 for, 2 against, 23 abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 16 aims at supplementing the catalogue of exemptions for commercial establishments selling poultry and sausages. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 22 votes against, 63 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 17 seeks to introduce trade opportunities by 1 p.m. on Sundays by natural persons engaged in economic activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted against, 6 against, 81 against. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 18 aims at banning trade on Sundays and holidays for all retail and wholesale establishments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 9 for, 66 against, 9 abstentions. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 20 seeks to make trade bans in the area subject to the decision of the Sejm of the Voivodship. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted against, 25 against, 62 against. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 21 aims to remove from the bill the amendment to the Penal Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Fourty-four senators voted against, 24 against, 60 against. [[Voting No 33]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 22 aims at drafting a criminal provision in accordance with the principles of legislative technique by specifying the marks of a prohibited act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 Senators voted, 85 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 23 seeks to eliminate the possibility of penalising an economic operator who does not comply with the ban on trade under the conditions of a redecisive. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted against, 25 against, 61 against. [[Voting No 35]] Amendments 24 and 26 should be voted together. They aim to eliminate from the Act transitional provisions on the gradual restriction of trade in commercial establishments after the entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 4 for, 79 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 36]] Amendments 25 and 28 will be voted together. They aim to ensure that, in the period from the entry into force of the Act to the end of 2018, the trader decides on which Sundays he wants to trade. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted against, 6 against, 65 against, 16 abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 26 was voted out. Amendment 27 aims to oblige the Council of Ministers to provide the Sejm and the Senate with information on the implementation of the Act by the end of the second quarter of 2019. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 26 votes against, 60 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 38]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 62 votes against, 22 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the restriction of trade on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 667 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 87 senators voted, 85 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Nature Conservation. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which they requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 673 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 Senators voted In accordance with the provisions [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Nature Conservation. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism and the Law on security of mass events. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 672 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Water, please. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 clarifies that the prohibition on public use of alcoholic beverages will not apply to places for drinking on the spot at the point of sale. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 85 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 2 empowers the municipality council to introduce a derogation from the prohibition of alcohol in a specific public place in the municipality. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 Senators voted In accordance with the provisions [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 3 modifies the date of entry into force of the Act by introducing a 30-day period of vacathio legis. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 62 for, 5 against, 18 abstentions. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism and the Law on security of mass events. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. A meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 669 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee presents the following position to the High Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal contained in point II, i.e. adopt the Act without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u316	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? [[Senator Aleksander Pociej.]] Okay, I hear you. Senators Robert Dowhan, Bogdan Borusewicz, Aleksander Pociej, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Piotr Florek submitted their conclusions during the discussion. I know Senator Aleksander Pociej... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u317	Mr. Marshal! Dear colleagues! I have a huge request for this point. I have tabled an amendment to remove the word "Senat" from this law. Why? We will all agree, and the rapporteur, Senator Elephant, has said that however hot a debate in this House would be, we really are something other than the Sejm. [[Then let's keep going.]] And let's keep going, sir. And that's exactly what I'm asking you, Mr. Senator. If we want to make these changes... [[Then what are we afraid of?]] ...let's bring them in ourselves. Why dozens of Members, no matter what party, should dictate to us... [[What are we supposed to do?]] ...what we're supposed to do here. Come on, guys. [[Applause]] ...do it for once... Please... If I have to, I'll even vote... I'm against it... [[Vote for it, that's all.]] But no, but I'm gonna vote just to make it come from us, to make it come from us... [[It's a deal. It's a deal.]] ...that we might possibly have They've changed our regulations and what we can be punished for. If most senators are behind this, go ahead. But let's do it, not the Members. Let's show that we're really not just here for decoration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u318	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Senator, you... [[...I wanted to answer that question, since he asked them...]] In what mode, Mr. Senator, do you report? Please do not speak in non-regular mode. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to make an amendment... [[Now?]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[You can't do this anymore.]] No, no, I tabled an amendment... [[Ah...]] ...I've tabled an amendment to the recipe. This is the basic provision that violates the importance of the Sejm, the Senate or the National Assembly. Why? Because we're different chambers. And it's written in the Constitution, not directly, but there's no Parliament in the Constitution, just... [[The Seym and the Senate, of course.]] ...only there are records concerning the Lower House, that is, the Sejm, and the Senate, separately. It is also not possible to set up joint committees. The Senate and the Sejm do not gather together, they gather as National Assembly only in three cases. And it's not the Sejmo-Senat, it's the National Assembly. This emphasizes that we are separate Chambers. I believe that we should stress our subjectivity, we should not be in the shadow of the Sejm, although of course the Sejm has more powers. The current rules contain sufficient standards that allow for the discipline of senators, and there are no such situations... However, the Sejm and the Senate's deliberations are different. That's what made me file this amendment. I believe that there is a need for differentiation. The provisions concerning the Sejm need not be the same as those concerning the Senate. We have different rules of procedure, we have different ways of conducting our deliberations, and I see no reason why this amendment of the Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator would also apply to the Senate. I mean, and the formality that I have justified, and the real reasons, the differences in the way I behaved in the Seym and the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Dowhan, Senator Rotnicka and Senator Florek. Would you like to speak? [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law, then, in the event of rejection of the proposal, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if both of the above conclusions are rejected. We proceed with the vote on Senator Robert Dowhan's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 22 votes against, 54 against and 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the rejection of the application for rejection of the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 43 votes against, 28 against and 12 abstentions. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damian: Bravo, bravo, senators!]] [[Bravo! The character is one.]] We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: a grant law for the Foundation for Cultural Heritage intended to supplement perpetual capital. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 684 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 74 votes against, 8 abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 48]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a grant law for the Foundation for Cultural Heritage intended to supplement perpetual capital. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 679 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 62 were in favour, 17 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 49]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 50th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the next 50th Senate meeting will begin, as I have already announced, on 19 December this year, i.e. on Tuesday, and is planned for 19th, 20th and 21st December this year. The agenda for this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Are any of your senators... You're welcome, Senator Jan Filip Libicki. And then Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, my senator's statement is directed primarily to the president of the Social Insurance Institution, Mrs Gertrude Uścińska, as well as to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy and to the Minister of National Education. In my constituency, I was asked... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...that I should ask these three institutions that I have mentioned for a proper legal interpretation... I hereby request this legal interpretation, allowing myself to read the text I received. I ask you kindly to resolve the legal problem, whether the principal who employs a professional training course from the age of twenty-six years of age employed for the contract-order is obliged to report such an employee to the Social Security Office. From the knowledge I have, vocational training centres generally issue certificates to ZUS. However, I would like to decide whether this is a practice consistent with the current legislation. Until now, I have met among others. with an interpretation by the regional Ombudsman of the Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych voivodship, Mrs Aldona Węgrzynowicz. Ms Węgrzynowicz stated that the concept of "learning in school" should be understood to mean learning on a daily, evening, blind, extraternist basis and participation in non-school lifelong learning. Professional qualification course, vocational skills course, general competence course It lasts more than 30 hours of teaching. The requirement to study at school is considered to be met if the student, the student attends classes, writes audit work, gets a pass, takes exams, etc. Despite the widespread practice of certification by professional training providers, I often have doubts about this, and therefore I hereby ask the senator to ask the relevant institutions for a binding interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u322	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to make a statement. You're welcome, Senator. [[Demonstrating shouts under the Senate building]] [[Is that from the tape or are people singing?]] [[I think people sing.]] I don't know... [[I think so. However.]] Yes. I think so, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three statements. First to the Minister of Agriculture. Minister! In view of the information appearing in the media that ASF, African swine fever sources have been detected in the vicinity of Warsaw, I ask you kindly to inform whether in northern Mazowsze, or more specifically in the districts of Żurominski, Mławski, Ciechanowski, Płoński and Przasny, no sources of this disease have been detected either. The next statement is addressed to the Mazowieckie Voivodeship, Mr Zdzisław Sipiera. In connection with the implementation of your voivodeship's alternative decision to change the names of the streets in Mazowsze in various towns, I kindly request a list of such changes made in the districts: Żurominski, Mławski, Przasnyski, Plonski and... Mławski. And the third statement is addressed to the Minister of the Interior. In connection with the information about the detection by the Podkarpackie Border Guard branch of an organized criminal group involved in extortion of work permits in exchange for property benefits, operating in Mazowsze and in the Mazowieckie Voivodeship Office, I ask kindly for information on the scale of this activity and on the scale of Ukraine's employed citizens in northern Mazowsze. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-senat-52-4.u324	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 50th second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 21 minutes 43]]
