ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u1	I open the thirty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Mark Pęk as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Marek Pęk. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the thirty-third meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-fourth sitting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. In view of the fact that the printing of the report of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance has not been provided to item 5 of the agenda, i.e. to the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act on Criminal Tax Code, I delete this item from the agenda. It will be completed once the committee's report on the matter has been submitted. I propose to consider point seven and point nine of the draft agenda, although the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose a change in the order of examination of paragraph seven: the Act amending the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws and consider this item as item 1 of the agenda; and point 6 of the Act on specific rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in breach of the law and consider this item as item 2 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u2	Mr Marshal, the Senators of the Civic Platform requested that the agenda for the Senate's draft resolution be completed at this meeting, which would call on the Government of the Republic of Poland to support the candidacy of the President of the European Council, Mr Donald Tusk, for the next term of office. Mr. Marshal decided otherwise, as he informed us at the Senior Convention. In return, I'd like to ask... The Marshal said that we would consider this draft resolution in the ordinary and not in an accelerated manner. But in view of the fact that decisions on this matter, which are essential for the interests of our country, will be taken on 9 March, we would consider this draft resolution in due course. So I'd like to ask your marshal, based on Art. 48 (1) (a) 2 point 8 of the Rules of Procedure, to supplement the current agenda with information by Prime Minister Beata Szydło on the current state of affairs of the government of the Republic of Poland on the support for the Polish candidate... [[Yeah, we're voting on that?]] ... former Prime Minister Donald Tusk as President of the European Council for the next term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Dobrzyński reporting. There you go. From where? Would you like to stand next to me? [[Next to the marshal.]] Near the marshal's wheel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u4	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I don't know if it's as a result of a break, but... well, it would be worth considering this resolution and the results of this resolution to be sent to Brussels. That wouldn't be such a bad idea. But that, I repeat, would have to be discussed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u5	Yes, Mr. Senator, but we're talking about two completely different... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the Chamber: We vote! We're voting!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we can't... Ladies and gentlemen, what we can vote on and what we can't vote on, you know more or less, and I need to know. So, yeah... [[Mr. Marshal, but it would be worth sending these results to Brussels. I'm sure that would help Mr. Tusk.]] Yes, but, Senator, we don't have a committee report right now and we can't vote on this proposal. Well, that's the rule book. Senator Bogdan Klich has made another formal motion, which we will have to vote on, of course, if there is a vote of objection, because I do not hear such a voice of opposition at the moment. But you filed a senator... [[But for...]] Who? You want... Anyone wanna make an objection? [[Request for vote in favour.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Oh, come on, Senator, don't be ridiculous. There is a proposal for and we will not now repeat these proposals for. Ladies and gentlemen, this request for information from the Prime Minister on the position of the Government regarding the election of the President, the Head of the European Council... I understand there's this motion for... Mr. Senator Martynowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I object.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u7	There's an objection. What are you on about? [[That's the one...]] But about what? Mr. Senator, in what mode? [[That's what I'm talking about.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But in this case, it's not... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no discussion... [[I'd like to ask which Pole...]] There will be no discussion about this. [[Because no Pole applied to the Polish government for support. And in this case...]] We vote... [[I'm asking what kind of Pole Mr. Klich was referring to.]] Mr. Senator, I'm taking your voice back... Please do not speak if this vote has not been given. [[And rightfully, Mr. Marshal is answering his voice.]] This also applies to Senator Federovich and others who wish to speak at the moment. That's not gonna happen. There's a formal motion, there's a vote against it. And I am voting on senator Bogdan Klich's formal motion. [[I'm sorry.]] The formal proposal concerns a request for information from Prime Minister Beata Szydło regarding the position of the Government on the election of the Head of the European Council. Who's in favour of this senator's motion? Who's against it? Please, we're voting. And we give the results. Please report the results. 81 senators voted against, 28 against, 53 against. [[Voting No 1]] The motion was rejected. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? You're welcome, Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal application pursuant to Article. 48 (1) (a) 2 point 8 of the Rules of Procedure, to supplement the agenda of this meeting with a point on the consideration of the Senate resolution on the support of the Government for the appointment of Mr Donald Tusk as President of the European Council. As a justification, I would like to inform you that the matter is of general interest to the general public. For other reasons too, the government needs to take a stand. You too, Mr Marshal, show a very rich interest in this matter, as shown by many statements. And it would be good if your views or other views were the voice of the Senate. I don't want to resort to saying that you're covering up the Senate's will... But this is, in my opinion, a violation of a certain principle of the Senate's ethics, because the Senate is expressing its will in important matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u9	Thank you very much. Senator, I have already said once that I will not put this proposal to the vote because there is no committee report. This request has been made and I already said it at the Senior Convention meeting. It's very late. It's too late. You've shown weak reflexes... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, it's too late. So that we cannot process this in either fast or slow mode. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Now, Mr. Senator... [[No, Mr. Marshal...]] But I would ask... [[Yes?]] Mr. Senator, so we don't have to discuss this. [[You have indeed shown not reflection, but a specific tendency to block and freeze resolutions, because you have not passed this project to the committee.]] Mr. Senator, you're accusing me of something that's not true because it's addressed to the committee. Well, don't tell me you're not, Senator. In normal mode it was directed, just like any draft resolution. I have such a duty and this duty has been fulfilled. It's signed, and your request... [[News?]] Well, you know, this isn't a vending machine that transmits information one minute at a time. [[Rulewski's not that important.]] [[When?]] Mr Senator, I signed, sent it to the press and forwarded it to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Your request was sent yesterday, and today it will be addressed formally, in paper form, and it will certainly arrive. Ladies and gentlemen, would any of you like to speak on the agenda? I can't see or hear anyone. I therefore state that the Senate approved the agenda of the thirty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 416 and the report of the Commission In print No 416 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm really sorry, but I had to adjust my job position. I am pleased to present to the High House a report on today's meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which concerned the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other Senate Print Act Nos 416 and 416 A. I would like to say very briefly that this project came to us from the Sejm, but it is our senate initiative, which is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 February 2012. We adopted this project in the Senate on 7 July last year and sent it to the Sejm. The judgment of the Constitutional Court of 28 February 2012 found that the Article was incompatible. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act of 17 December 1998 on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, i.e. The Court finds that this Article is incompatible with the principle of citizens' confidence in the State and the rights it provides under the Article. 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 67 constitutions. The point was that the pension authorities have the possibility to re-qualify the evidence and move their decisions indefinitely. I would like to say that only one new provision has been introduced into this project by the Sejm, which has clarified what it means to move the decision to the detriment of the person who receives the benefit would be an excessive burden for her. In such a situation, the authority may derogate from this and this government amendment concerned the clarification of the provision, the definition, also in the context of European case law, which means an excessive burden. As for today's committee meeting, I can say that the discussion was generally about two issues. Firstly, the Legislative Office drew attention to the provision which distinguished the way in which pension decisions concerning professional soldiers were touched. The Legislative Office pointed out that in its view this should be harmonised. The government party pointed out that such a departure from the uniform record was due to the peculiarities of the functioning of the Ministry of National Birth. In the end, none of the Senators of this comment from the Legislative Bureau took it into account. Secondly, the senators Augustine and Rulewski pointed out that, as far as these records are concerned, there are some inequalities in some places. The timing of the decision which is given to the pension authorities is different from that given to the citizens. The senators at this meeting of our committee indicated that they would propose an amendment to this issue in plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u11	Thank you, too, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We here should reflect on the substance of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, because it was a pro-Citizen-style, it was absolutely supposed to strengthen the citizen's position towards the pension authority. So far, as we heard at the committee meeting, these issues were governed by a circular, which was introduced by the Social Security Office as a result of The senators from the family committee and the petition committee probably remember it. Many complaints about the fact that after many, many years, the Social Security Office questioned the correctness of the decision and charged the recipient of pension or pension by ordering him to return funds which he had not had in a long time. It is good that there is such a guarantee in this law that, in the case, I would say, a very difficult situation, such a practice will not be. I would like to ask if there was a good discussion about the diversity of these periods. So far, we've been trying to do this. And in many laws, it had an expression. In order to ensure that the rights of the pension authority and the rights of the citizen in terms of deadlines, I would say, the consideration of each other's claims is equal. And so it is in this circular, and here these periods vary. I would ask you to refer to this case, also because of the unclear provisions contained in the article. 1. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, if someone deliberately misled the pension authority, he committed a crime. And this is included not in point 4, but in point 2. So why, first of all, do we double? Secondly, what is the evidence on which the facts relevant to the case that proved false were established? Who's gonna rule on that? My question is this: is it right to solve for up to 10 years, that is to say, the deterioration of the situation of the applicant or the recipient of the pension? I'd really like an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u14	Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I would like to say this: the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2012 was a very short sentence, but that does not mean that it did not concern multiple... and very complex matter. I will just point out what actors were involved in this project. It was the Social Insurance Institution, the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. There was even a moment when we worked on this bill, that we set up a working group so that all these actors' representatives could call it, discuss it. I can say that at no stage of the legislative work that I have carried out, a remark such as that which is being raised at the moment by the senator has not been raised, and there have been various comments, also from the Ministry of Justice. What is mine, say, not as rapporteur, but as a private opinion in this regard? At first glance, it seems that this is a legitimate request, but once again I point out that during numerous works no one paid attention to this aspect and was quite common opinion that, by writing it this way, we are fulfilling the judgments of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? There isn't. Very cordial, Mr. Senator, thank you. The bill was filed by the Senate. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the Ministry's representative, Mr Marcin Zielenecki, like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you, Mr Marshal.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to a government representative related to the item on the agenda. There's a question. Please, Minister, please approach the speaker, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn will ask a question in a moment. You're welcome, Senator. The question you ask is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u16	Minister, of course I would like to ask the same question, because it seems to me that if, in the case of crimes, it is possible to... This is already in point 2 of the Decision, however, i.e. the statement that the evidence on the basis of which the facts relevant to the case were established proved false... Who would decide that? As I understand it, this is a situation that does not concern any judicial diagnosis, where we have evidence, only evidence in administrative proceedings. I would like to ask you this because it seems highly unclear to me; there are a lot of things that can be connected here. And in fact, even against the ministry's intentions, if I understood the Minister well during the committee meeting, instead of improving the situation of the clients of the Social Security Office, we could unpredictably make it worse. In relation to the circular, extending this period to 10 years. I would ask you to speak on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u17	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I believe that the answer to this question should take the current legal situation as a starting point. And the legal situation so far is that we do not actually have a provision in the law that would temporarily restrict the possibility of issuing decisions repealing the final decisions of the pension authorities. The situation is that, before the ruling of the Constitutional Court, the Social Security Office had the right unlimited possibility of repealing such decisions previously issued. It can be said that the legal situation that we have today is unsatisfactory. In my opinion, the situation where a circular of a member of the Management Board of the Social Insurance Institution, which introduces a five-year period, which is uniform in the case of different situations, the various reasons for moving the final decision, is still the basis for applying the limitation of temporary repeal or verification of final pension decisions, is an unsatisfactory situation, a situation that should simply be amended. And that's where the Senate bill was drafted to amend the Pension and Pension Act of the Social Insurance Fund. This project assumed that the reasons for moving the final pension decision could be different, and that there could be a different period after which the Social Insurance Institution would lose the possibility of touching the final pension decision. This period, in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 10 February 2017 already adopted by the Sejm, depending actually on the degree of contribution of the insured person himself or even of third parties to such a wrong decision, is between 10 and 3 years. This longest period, ten years, shall apply when the decision was made as a result of the offence, either where the evidence on the basis of which the relevant facts were established proved false, or where the insured or the third party intentionally misled. These are reprehensible behaviours and, therefore, you can say, the Social Insurance Institution has in these cases the opportunity to use a long time to correct the wrong, previously issued as a result of the various reprehensible behaviours of the pension body. On the other hand, the three-year period, the shortest period, would be applicable if such circumstances incriminating the insured person or the third party were not present, i.e. when the pension authority simply made a mistake. I see these solutions proposed in the Act of 10 February 2017 as protective solutions, i.e. on the one hand, protecting the insured against excessive, say, interference, excessive powers of the pension authority, but on the other hand, giving the pension authority the opportunity to remedy, in a certain period of time, previous mis-decisions. I would also like to draw the attention of the senators to provisions which in a sense mitigate the proposed solutions to be included in the article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. These mitigation measures are situations where, it can be said, such a resumption of proceedings would be excluded. I mean the content of the article. 1f. These are situations in which the person concerned, i.e. insured, would have acquired the right to benefit or would have acquired a higher amount of benefit as a result of the repeal or amendment of the decision. So we're not talking here about the possibility of repealing the decision to the detriment of the insured, we're talking... sorry, in favour of the insured, that is, the change to the disadvantage, but about the decisions that were made, so to speak, in the opposite direction. The second exemption is a situation where we have a final decision to establish initial capital. We know that such decisions can also be made later, also in the context of the pension application procedure. And then, if at a later time, after the decision to establish the initial capital, the original capital... the decisions referred to here were issued after the 1999 reform came into force. And if it turned out that, for example. new insurance periods have been disclosed, or new information would arise on the level of remuneration which would benefit the situation of the insured would not be applicable either. I would also like to draw your attention to the provision that we treat in terms of such a safety valve, i.e., the provision that gives the Social Insurance Institution the opportunity to withdraw from this verification, from repairing the situation where the adoption of a decision repealing or amending a previously issued final decision would entail an excessive burden for the person concerned. And one last thing. The decisions referred to here shall be subject to judicial review. So, in the event that anyone, including the insured, will feel injured or think that the rules have been misappreciated, the court will simply take... will control the correctness of these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more... Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u20	I just want to make sure I got it right. As I understand it, Art. 1 paragraph Point 1 (1) concerning the evidence on the basis of which the facts relevant to the case were established concerns the administrative procedure in the CSO. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u21	Yes, sir. Among other things. Because these procedures will also apply to other pension proceedings, i.e. in the event of applying for pension provision for professional soldiers or uniformed officers. But there's a pattern in the Social Insurance Fund pension and pension law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Richard Majer is asking a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask about the scale of the phenomenon. Because the continuity of administrative decisions in legal transactions is very important, but the determination of the facts which the decision describes is also important. Please tell me, Minister, if such verification is in the Social Insurance Institution, there is something particularly significant. And as in this period... Because I know that the circular, which limited this time to five years, has already functioned. How did the situation in the Social Insurance Institution change when this circular was already operational? Does the differentiation of this period, which the government is currently proposing in the Act, have such a profound justification in your observations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u24	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the scale of this phenomenon is concerned, we have data on the 2012/2015 period. This is the period when the guidelines of the President or a member of the Management Board of the Social Insurance Institution were in force. And at that time, there was one period, five years, for all situations that justified the change of the final pension decision. Thus, in the said period of time, the pension bodies of the Social Insurance Institution, I stress that they have resumed their proceedings under Article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in a total of 101 cases where the right to benefits has been verified. There were more cases where benefits were verified. Annually, the scale of this phenomenon is on average 25 decisions determining the right to benefit, 185 decisions correctly determining the amount of the benefit. We must be aware that the Social Insurance Institution takes about 7 million 800 000 pension decisions annually. So if we were to compare the number of decisions that were touching, previously issued, with the total number of decisions made by the pension authorities, we would notice that this is a thousand percent fraction and that the scale of this phenomenon is very small. I can also provide data on the number of cases in which the Social Insurance Institution has waived the amendment of the final pension decision by applying the 5-year period resulting precisely from the circular in force in the Social Insurance Institution. Such verification was refused in the case of 32 award decisions, 658 insured persons were not reduced in the amount of the benefit; 8 cases relating to the right to benefit per year, and 172 cases relating to the amount of the benefit. Again, I would like to say that with regard to the scale of the decisions taken by the Social Insurance Institution, it can be noted that this is a thousandth fraction of the percentage. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u26	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Zbigniew Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u27	Mr. President, I have a question about the relationship between the article. 114 and Article 114 83a of the Social Insurance Act, which regulates the same issue, and this, in my opinion, is more correct, because it simply refers to the general principles of the Code of Administrative Procedure, stating that the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure for the reopening of proceedings or for the annulment are applicable. Right now there's a system that doubles. I have not yet considered whether there is even some contradiction here as to the length of the period during which proceedings can be resumed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u28	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Insurance Act, first of all, has a slightly wider scope of application, because it is part of a common policy for 4 branches of insurance, i.e. pension, disability and accident insurance. On the other hand, it only regulates a certain section of social security cases, because it directly regulates only decisions on the determination of insurance obligations and decisions on social security contributions. So the project we're discussing today is only about pension matters. It can be said that it is of great importance because of the cases for which the Constitutional Tribunal and the Senate have dealt with this issue. Let me remind you that those facts which led to the initiation of the procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal concerned the situation in which the Social Insurance Institution, by establishing the right to a pension, had stated that the decisions previously issued concerning the granting of sickness benefit were decisions issued many years ago. They were wrong decisions. Under this procedure, he simply verified previous welfare decisions, without taking into account the periods of benefits during insurance periods on which the right to a pension or the amount of that pension depends. So it could be said that it was an urgent matter to change the regulations contained in the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act. I agree that similar matter is the subject of the Social Security Act, but these regulations have... I would say this: the FUS pension law is lex specialis in relation to the Social Security Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u30	The senator wants to ask, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u31	I have one more question. Minister, I have a question about the issues of the judgments of the Strasbourg Court, especially the Moskal case, the Chaj case and other matters. It was about taking away the right to early retirement for those who received this right because of taking care of disabled children. These proceedings were subsequently resumed and, on the basis of a different assessment and finding that the child allegedly does not require such care, the entitlement acquired on the basis of a final decision was withdrawn. What was the scope of these cases? As far as I know, unless 150 such cases were brought to the Supreme Court, who neither asked the Constitutional Tribunal to comply with the Constitution, nor wanted to change the decisions of the appeals courts, which was stigmatized by the Strasbourg Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I can't tell you what it looks like statistically, numerically, I can't tell you what the number of these judgments is. We have examined all these decisions in the course of the work on today's bill from a certain perspective, namely in terms of this provision, which is a clause giving the pension authority the opportunity to withdraw from the verification of such a final pension decision previously issued. From the data I have here, I can say that when it comes to proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, such proceedings in which Poland was defendant were 120. During our work, at that time on the draft law, we took into account the position of the European Court of Human Rights, which was a properly uniform position presented in all these proceedings, and proposed the appropriate content of the clause limiting this possibility. Here, the Court uses this principle of proportionality and we have taken this principle into account by drafting the content of the exclusion clause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u33	Thank you very much. You're going to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was concerned about one of the statements that just came out of your mouth. Namely, he's been there so far. As I understand it, in a customary way or on the basis of the arrangement of a member of the Management Board of the ZUS, the 5-year term used... It is a term, I would say, of limitation. Now the bill proposes a 10-year term. Was it intentional, or did I mess things up? Were you trying to make things worse for some people, or was it just like that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u35	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, from my point of view, the situation is inappropriate, in which, in fact, certain legal guarantees of the insured position in administrative proceedings before the pension authority are enshrined in the circular, as part of an instructional act, because it is not, it can be said, the correct situation, these are not guarantees. It's true, isn't it? Hence the support of the Council of Ministers, expressing the official position of the Council of Ministers supporting the Senate bill in the form in which it was drafted in the Social Policy Committee of the Sejm. So this extension of the period actually, you can say, takes place in relation to the solutions or practice of the pension bodies resulting from this circular. But, as I say, the important value of the bill is that we give insured persons statutory guarantees that their rights will not really be reduced when 3, 5 or 10 years have passed since the misdecision of the pension authority was issued in the past. This 10-year period concerns, as I mentioned, the most reprehensible situation, where the wrong decision of the pension authority is the result of a criminal offence, the deliberate confusion of the pension authority by the person receiving the benefit, or the fact that the circumstances on the basis of which the previous decision was based have simply proved false. These are reprehensible situations and it seems that the rules should not treat the situation in which there is a manifest error by any unprovoked ZUS pension body, and the situation in which we are dealing with the deliberate, conscious, sometimes criminal action of the insured person himself. Hence we are dealing with an extension of this period to 10 years when, with such, I would say, an extremely reprehensible situation we are dealing with. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u37	You're welcome, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u38	However, I would like to ask the Minister. I'm not talking about material regulations. I completely agree on the different causes, the different periods, let's call it limitation. But it's about this maybe very few group of people who, in quotes, are already calm, I mean, they were calm until this bill came in, that the five-year period passed. They were subject to relatively mild practice. And suddenly there's a major deterioration in their situation. Because please note that, indeed, statutory protection is better, but if this statutory protection is more stringent, I would say this way: one might wonder if there is no possible action of the law backwards. Maybe not, but there's action at the border, so I'd call it. And this law, of course, necessary and implementing the judgment of the Court, may in this one aspect not so much to be questioned as to cause unhealthy emotions in a group of people. The question is whether it is appropriate to amend the transitional provisions so that we apply all the provisions of the Act in a new wording to the processes that are still ongoing at the moment, and this provision of a 10-year period is applied in the old version, simply until 10 years have passed. I don't know what the Minister thinks. Then it would just be clean.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u39	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Like I said, this five-year period comes from a circular. In fact, the law should not refer to the circular as a source of protection for certain rights insured, so we have analysed this issue during the legislative procedure. We considered that the transitional provisions that are contained in the Act are sufficient and, say, there is no need, as if through the transitional provisions of further protection of insured persons. But we need to be aware that this 10-year period applies to insured persons who have behaved in an extremely reprehensible way in the past, and we need to be aware that legislation in general, including social security legislation, cannot, as it were, sanction such situations. Right? Nor can they encourage the insured, considering that they will be faced with a relatively short period during which the pension authority may not be aware that it has been misled or a criminal offence has been committed and will later lose its ability to verify that mis-issued decision of the pension authority... It's just that regulations can't provoke this kind of situation. I therefore take these solutions, which are contained in the Act adopted on 10 February 2017, as a compromise, into account both the principle of citizens' trust in the State which the Constitutional Tribunal has stressed in its ruling and certain interests in the social security system. After all, decisions issued by the pension authority, whether not supported in the history of the insurance period of the insured person, whether based on false assumptions, assumptions, grounds, simply the pension authority must also be able to verify. I take these provisions as compromises.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u41	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any volunteers. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Minister! It's awkward for me, Minister, to speak to your back, so... I would like to say that it is very good that the Senate has proposed such a law, because indeed, as Minister Zielenecki said, it is to strengthen the protection rights of citizens in contacts with the Social Security Office, so that this circular law does not say: duplicate In fact, the practice was good, because the U.S.O.S. was self-limiting, replacing it with legal solutions, as the Constitutional Tribunal claims in its ruling. So undoubtedly the act of good, right in those aspects, in which it strongly sanctiones what has been customary so far. It improves the situation of insured persons. It is said that it will be 3 years, so compared to what was, and it was 5 years old, the situation of insured people improves. But unfortunately, Senator Czerwiński raised the same issue that I spoke about at the committee meeting. With regard to these 10 years, it seems to me that we do not carry out the intention of the Constitutional Tribunal there, and we certainly do not improve the situation of insured people. Ladies and gentlemen, if in the previous provisions of the article. 1, where we refer to lips. 1, these situations, which the Minister here euphemistically calls reprehensible, were very precisely named, I would consider that the matter is clear, because when it comes to conscious and absolutely criminal action, we should not apply the same rules as we apply to others. Except that in Poland a crime, in order to be named as such, must be decided. If the situation is that the evidence was false, the circumstances were false, then someone committed a crime, I understand. If a decision has been taken as a result of deliberate confusion, that is a crime. So writing it down into small amounts opens an interpretation space for the pension authority, which I don't think should be open. That is why I believe that, despite all the support for this presentation, we should stick to the principle that we have here. Mr. Butcior is here as a witness. On several occasions in previous terms she guided. The aim is to equalise, as far as possible, the rights of the parties in pension proceedings. I think we're going too far here, so I'd like to make an amendment. She would, first of all, eliminate these unclear provisions concerning both point 3 and point 4 of Article. 1 paragraph Because if something is a crime, it's a crime and there's nothing to write down here. And second of all, Let us leave this issue of crime to this period, that is, point 2. The point is, however, to stick to this principle, that, in fact, the custom or practice of the procedure was not of a legal nature, but there is nothing for us to say, anything to say, any reference point, and that we should not make the situation worse in comparison with that practice. And not only by transitional provisions, Mr. Senator Czerwiński, but by introducing a barrier to these five years at all. That's why I'm asking for this change. Of course, maybe the legislators will sort it out better than I do here in the courtroom, but my intention is that as a result of these amendments in my mouth. 1e was 5 years old and to refer only to the situation of crime, and in Article. 1... in the mouth. 1 remove those provisions, which, however, create a very large space for interpretation. Minister, it is true that after administrative proceedings there is still a judicial road. However, these cases, which the Minister referred to here in his question about the scope of this submission, and those which were invoked by Senator Cichoń, show that the judicial path for those people, who are often old enough, is sometimes so long... Well, it's a very difficult situation. The safety fan, yes, there is, but the pressure, so to speak, we could definitely reduce this comparison. If we had accepted the amendments I recommend. And that is what the High House is asking for.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u43	Mr. Senator Silence. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law is to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which, fortunately, stated the unconstitutionality of that Article. 114 at the point where he introduced the possibility of touching final or final administrative decisions. It is only a question of whether this method of regulation adopted here is appropriate, whether it contains a repetition, at least in a large part, of the article. 83a Act on the social security system. This is the article I asked the Minister about, and the Minister admitted that the Social Security Act, which generally regulates all insurance issues, has a wider scope than the law we are debating today. Because this bill we're debating is only about pensions and pensions. It should therefore be assumed that this regulation in Article. 83a, which refers to the general principles of the Code of Administrative Procedure and states that the proceedings may be resumed or annulled, even if they were final or final decisions, constituted, as it seems, sufficient regulation. Of course, it can be considered, and I believe that it has been properly regulated whether the strict application of these rules under the Code of Administrative Procedure for the renewal of proceedings or the annulment of decisions is not too strict, even absolute, especially in the context of the judgments of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which has found infringements in the case of a number of cases which I have referred to, and in which early retirement rights have been taken away for persons caring for disabled children only and only as a result of the different assessment of documents, certificates, in particular medical and medical certificates, which have indicated, according to the latter assessment, The children, however, do not need to be cared for. That's why I think it's very useful, and underneath it I sign with both hands, there's this article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1g, in which there is an exception to the general principle of the possibility of repealing a decision or annulment: if this would be an excessive burden for the person concerned on account of his or her personal or material situation, age, health status or other specific circumstances. I consider this to be a very good solution, which will prevent such a situation, very, very awkward for Poland at the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which in more than 100 cases had to rule that Poland had violated the standards of art. 1 European Convention on Human Rights. That is why I am generally in favour of this law, as I am saying, of course, with this small condition that it could have been less regulated. But unfortunately, at the moment, there's a tendency that sometimes there's overregulation of certain things. This is explained differently, sometimes by the need to include in the bill all the regulations that actually result from another law, from a reference to another law. This, of course, is a debatable issue. As a purist of law, I believe that regulation should be limited. But in general, I am in favour of this change that will happen and which, as I say, will finally lead to a normal situation, that there will be no feeling of hurting those people who have actually suffered quite serious harm. Because I have to say that I had these dilemmas myself, when I complained to the Strasbourg tribunal about decisions that actually put in a very difficult situation, especially those who had resigned from their employment, received retirement, took care of disabled children, and who, at the same time, after several years of disfellowshipping from their employment, came the decision that they were deprived of these rights. Well, that's the kind of situation we'd never have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: a law on special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 422 and the Commission's reports In prints No 422 A and 422 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee. [[Mrs. Marshal, I have a formal motion.]] Mr. Marshal, but now it's too late for a motion because you're a Marshal... [[What do you mean it's too late? There's no government representative.]] [[Voice from the room: He'll be right there.]] He'll be right there. He's on his way, Mr. Marshal. [[Voice from the hall: No, it's next door, in the restaurant.]] Oh, well, we're asking him now. [[Well, maybe we could get him to listen to the senator's report.]] Senator, he's on his way. He'll be here any minute. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report by the Legislative Commission on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 10 February this year on specific rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. A meeting of the Legislative Commission took place on 20 February. Maybe I'll start by saying a few words about the purpose and subject of the bill. The purpose of this bill is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I can go on, can't I? Good, 'cause I thought... [[The senators sign up for the discussion. There you go.]] The purpose of the Act is to restore the protection of the social interest by removing infringements of the law which occurred in the course of the re-privatization decisions based on the provisions of the Decree of Bierut, i.e. the Decree of 26 October 1945 on the ownership and use of land in the capital city of Warsaw, called the Decree in the Act. This law covers the activities of real estate located in the capital city of Warsaw within the limits of 1945, as well as the powers of former owners of these properties. ..and their legal successors. For which the provisions of the Decree were applicable. The authors of the law state in their justification that there have been very numerous abuses in the reprivatisation process. It was also mentioned in the media. The press had a lot of information about it. These include offences against documents involving the counterfeiting of documents and the committing of numerous procedural infringements during administrative proceedings, infringements relating to the abuse of personal rights in civil law, as well as numerous infringements of the social interest, which deprive the holders of the rights of persons residing in immovable property subject to reprivatisation proceedings. As a result of these numerous abuses there was a transfer of ownership or establishment of perpetual use in respect of municipal property in relation to persons who had never owned such immovable property. The administrative decisions issued were also the basis for a large-scale settlement of damages claims. In order not to develop too widely this thread, which is, after all, well-known to the public, one sentence can be added: in this process there have been irregularities and abuses both in the area of justice, that is, in the context of judicial proceedings, administrative proceedings, as well as... Well, that was abuse on an unprecedented scale. The Ministry's estimates of the Minister spoke about this at the committee meeting about as many as 40 thousand victims in Warsaw alone and the multi-million-dollar amounts. Criminal cases are outrageous, including the most serious crimes. I'm just gonna give you one example of such a very loud case, Mrs. Jolanta Brzeska's case. This is a matter which is discussed and known to the public. In conclusion, it must be said that the scale of these abuses and their caliber require emergency measures. Such measures are offered by the law we are discussing. Under it, as regards the most important provisions of the Act, a special committee will be set up, which will have numerous powers, among others. She made decisions that... Following an exploratory procedure, the Commission will be able to maintain the reprivatisation decision in force, repeal that reprivatisation decision in whole or in part and in that regard, decide on the substance of the case, repeal the reprivatisation decision in its entirety and refer the matter to the authority which issued the final reprivatisation decision if the decision was taken in breach of the truth and the scope of the case which is necessary to clarify has a significant impact on its resolution. Finally, if the reprivatisation decision has irreparable legal effects, the committee shall find that decision in breach of the law and shall indicate the circumstances for which it cannot be repealed or will discontinue the exploratory procedure. I will no longer dwell on the subject of the law, because it is my job to report first and foremost on the meeting of the Legislative Commission. This meeting, apart from the senators, was attended primarily by representatives of the Ministry of Justice, headed by Deputy Minister of Justice Patrick Jak. Mr Mirosław Reszczyński from the Senate Legislative Office, Undersecretary of State from the Ministry of Justice, Mr Marcin Warchoł, Director of the Legislative Department of the Ministry of Justice Tomasz Darkowski, was present. There were also representatives of the Warsaw magistrate Mr Jaromir Drewniak, Deputy Director of the Legal Office of the Warsaw Capital City Office. Several key points were raised at the meeting. The first, touched by Senator Piotr Ziientarski, was a thread... It was a very critical response to the provisions of this law. Such a guiding motive in this respect was the question of the deep unconstitutionality of this law. Your patron Zientarski's argument contained a motion to reject the bill in its entirety. The scope of the committee's powers, which I mentioned, has been raised in the mixed nature of its powers, which, according to Senator Ziientarski, are entering into the powers of the judiciary and the qualifications of the members of this committee. It also raised the issue of certain perpetual accounting powers for committees to request specific amendments, entries in perpetual books. As I say, the summary of this statement by Senator Ziientarski was a motion to reject the bill. This proposal was not supported by the committee. During the discussion, there was also criticism of the nine-member committee, it was suggested that maybe this composition should be larger, arguments were raised that the number of cases to be dealt with by the committee could exceed its capacity, its capacity, because it consists of only nine members. There were also reservations about the nature and extent of the immunity of the members of the committee. It was claimed to be a very broad immunity. Senator Marek Borowski expressed the view that the matters to be dealt with by the committee should be resolved on the basis of the reprivatization bill, that here we are introducing insufficient solutions. On the other hand, it can only be said that the reprivatisation law has failed, so far all governments in turn, this law was also the subject of the veto of President Kwasniewski, so it can be said that this was already a matter for a completely different debate. During the committee meeting, Senator Marek Martynowski tabled amendments and these amendments were both substantive and typically technical and linguistic. And now I will present the amendments that the committee has recommended positively. Namely in the article. 4 in paragraph 2. 1 of the Act was deleted from the Ministry of Justice. This amendment was related to the clarification of the legal status of the members of the committees, as this provision provided that the members of the committee had the rank of Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, and is precisely concerned with the deletion of these words. The next amendment concerned Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 5. This provision was worded as follows: "Members of the Commission appointed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the date of appointment shall include the duties of the Secretaries of State in the Ministry of Justice. This paragraph has been completely amended and the committee now recommends the following wording: "Members of the Commission appointed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland shall carry out tasks relating solely to the exercise of their duties in the Commission. The next amendment concerns Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. This provision in the version which was sent to the committee from the Sejm was worded as follows: "Finance to the Commission in respect of the remuneration of the members of the Commission appointed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland shall be taken from the state budget of Part 37 of Justice. In this amendment it is proposed to delete the words "not relating to the remuneration of the members of the Commission appointed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland" and, instead, to leave these words... That is to say, these words are simply deleted, and therefore this paragraph at the moment reads as follows: "Finance to the Commission is financed from the State budget from Part 37 of Justice. Further amendments recommended by the committee concern Article. 11, Art. 30 and Article 30 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the In conclusion, I will say that the committee has adopted this law and recommends that it be adopted together with the amendments that I have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thanks to the fact that my previous speaker presented the report in very detail, I have a somewhat simplified task, because the work of our committee has been the subject of similar issues. He was the first to be submitted by, if I recall correctly, Senator Rulewski's motion to reject the bill in connection with similar allegations, i.e. that it is contrary to constitutional order. Of course, this proposal was not approved. Then there were conclusions, including Senator Rulewski... If I make a mistake, please forgive me, this could happen. I think Senator Rulewski has requested that this should apply not only to Warsaw, but to Poland as a whole, if I remember correctly. Then there was a proposal on issues related to the inclusion in the article. 40... It is about entering the perpetual book when the administrative decision will be repealed and it will return to its original state, not only the municipalities of the capital city of Warsaw, but also ♪ Alternatively ♪ The Treasury. As far as I remember, I think I'm the one who filed this request and it's been taken into account. There were still many other proposals concerning the parties to the proceedings. The question raised was whether, in the light of the fact that the committee could rule on compensation and redress for persons who suffered some damage as a result of the unlawful use of coercion in the form of whether it is a threat of unlawful or otherwise... Damage and also suffering. Most of the time, it was because they had to leave the premises that they hired. These people were in the role of tenants. In view of the fact that they are to be granted compensation or compensation, a request has been made for... The point is that such persons should be involved in the proceedings. I guess I'm the one who applied for it, and, if I remember correctly, he didn't pass. There was also a proposal to amend the provisions on the grounds for repealing the decision, inter alia. It was about removing the social interest considerations. That motion didn't go through. In fact, that would be all that, reporting briefly, briefly... I do not want to repeat what my previous speaker said, because to a large extent, I see that these proposals overlap.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u49	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Senator Piotr Florek would like to ask you a question. You're welcome. Which of the senators of the rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u50	I think it's both. If anyone answers, there won't be any need to supplement it. I'll ask the first three questions for now. Because I'm gonna want to ask you a lot more questions because this bill is such a bitch that questions could be asked here forever. First question. Is the knowledge of the committee members... That's the question to... because I'm not a member of either committee, and I don't know if there was a discussion about it. If not, I will also ask these questions to the Minister. So that eventually I will repeat them. Is the knowledge of the members of the committee composed of persons with so-called. Will the necessary knowledge of real estate management be sufficient to decide whether to suspend proceedings before an administrative authority or court, a general court or the Supreme Court? That's the first question. Second question. What is the expected duration of the committee's work, and how will the members of the committee be dismissed? E.g. in the event of a change of government. We know that this committee will work, in my opinion, for decades, because the things that are to be dealt with are just impossible to make it happen quickly. So I would like to know what is the way in which the members of the committee are dismissed. Is it true that the one calling it off? And maybe one more question about... It will be a question to the government, but maybe this issue was also discussed at the committee meeting. I'm talking about the reprivatization bill. Because it is known that only she can solve a problem that many, many cities in Poland face. We have a small reprivatization bill for Warsaw land. However, a large reprivatisation bill would be needed. We know what the course of action was before, she was already vetoed, there were various financial situations... At the moment, it is necessary that, having such conditions as the Law and Justice have, this law be passed as soon as possible. Therefore, I have a question as to whether the bill discussed here, about this committee, will not just block the reprivatization law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the senators are reporting from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Please, which one of you? You're welcome, Senator Crack.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u52	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, as regards the rules that determine the substantive competence of the members of the committee... Well, the idea is that the committee isn't just restricted to lawyers. I think that this other group also has a very extensive knowledge of this committee work. And I don't see any contradiction here, rather some enrichment. Allow me to express in private the view that the matters referred to here have already been dealt with by specialised lawyers and have failed the exam. Therefore, we need to look for additional ways, including from the substantive point of view, to explain these phenomena. Well, the committee's working time, I think, is until the committee clears up the problems and phenomena. The issue of calling and appeal by the Sejm... I guess it's obvious that it's not the 9th Sejm, it's just the Sejm. And I would like to see the committee explain all these phenomena in this term of office and that there is no need to continue. However, I'm going back to the earlier thread. " These things have been going on for many years, and the justice system has not been able to deal with it at all. This results in such an extraordinary character of the committee. As far as the reprivatisation bill is concerned, I will go back to what I said in the report. Since 1989, so far no coalition, no government majority with the reprivatization law has managed, also ruling for the last 8 years, the PO-PSL coalition. So that the case is open, but the scale of abuse requires faster and more extraordinary action, hence the establishment of this committee. So much for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u53	Thank you very much. Would Senator Zbigniew Cichoń like to say anything? [[Thank you. Mr. Senator told me so much about it that I don't see the need for it.]] Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Władysław Komoro... Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u54	Komorowski close with Komarnicki. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. As a man of the economy, I will always ask when money is at stake, because that is the essence of the matter. I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. First question. To be honest, the creation of a compensation fund is a good idea, even a very sensible one, because these people often deserve compensation or compensation, but unfortunately I have to say with regret that there are no amounts given and it is not really known how high they will be. Mr. Senator, it's important that we explain to each other what amounts we're talking about today. My second question concerns the fact that the Act grants special immunity to the chairman of the verification committee and its members under which they cannot be held liable for their activities within the scope of their duties in that committee. Since this committee will replace the courts, the prosecutor's office, the administration, if this committee will award compensation and determine their amount, who will, if the committee is wrong, take responsibility for those damages which it grants to those who ask for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u55	Thank you very much. Which one of you? Mr. Senator Bang. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As far as the compensation fund is concerned, I would like to ask the Minister for a more detailed explanation, because the amount of compensation, to be honest, did not seem to have been discussed at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, so... [[May I repeat this question to the Minister?]] Yeah, that's what I'd ask for, 'cause... [[Thank you very much.]] ...I can't explain it to you precisely. As far as the question on the scope of immunity is concerned, as I said in the report, this issue has been discussed. Mr. Senator Marek Borowski Okay, if I remember correctly. On this matter he leaned more, showing the width of this range. I think the statement the senator used about this committee replacing courts, prosecutors, etc. is the result of a certain misunderstanding. The purpose of this committee is above all to shorten the path of reopening administrative proceedings, so it is mainly administrative proceedings, but the scope of immunity must be wide for the committee to properly exercise its function. It's not absolute immunity in the sense that I'm gonna go back to calling and dismissing the members again. They are appointed and dismissed by the Sejm, and it is not so that the power of the members of the committee is absolutely absolute. Without the broad scope of this immunity, it will not be possible to talk about the effectiveness of the action. Once again, I will return to the scale and nature of these abuses. If a member of the committee is to perform seriously the tasks imposed on him by the law, he must have immunity and competence as broad as possible, but Like I said. It's not absolute. [[Thank you. Mrs. Marshal, can I ask you a question about that second question? Because the Senator rapporteur...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u57	Please, Mr. Senator. [[...he didn't answer the second part of my question.]] Well, ask around.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u58	Thank you. Senator rapporteur, since this committee will award compensation and determine their amount, who, Senator, if the committee makes a mistake, will take responsibility for the damages it will grant to those who ask for it? Who?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u59	Mr. Senator, in this case, I would also ask you to ask the Minister for a question, because, as I said, This issue was not discussed in detail at the committee meeting. I wouldn't want to give any misleading answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u60	Thank you very much. And I ask you to ask Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u61	Thank you. I have a question for Senator Silence. The Act introduces a new institution: exploratory proceedings. I know what the preliminary investigation is, criminal proceedings, etc. Mr. Senator, anywhere in our legislation... Otherwise: whether in such prosecutorial activities, service activities, etc. Is there a reconnaissance procedure? And that's my first question. The second question is also legal. Who's gonna be a party to the committee's proceedings? Whether the local government or the Attorney General of the Republic of Poland, or individuals who, let's assume, have an interest in this Did they get any real estate, or were they deprived of that property in connection with this reprivatization? Who will be the party or who will be the parties to this proceeding before this extraordinary commission?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u63	The answer to the first question is that the exploratory procedure is a procedure which involves gathering evidence, including hearing the parties. It's a normal thing. The Code Uses Not only the Code of Administrative Procedure, but also a number of other rules of the Code, the concept of recognition of the case or the examination of the case, which means the same thing. So that's it for the first thing. This, of course, involves a second point concerning the parties to the proceedings. According to Art. The 28th Code of Administrative Procedure shall be a party to any person whose legal interests are concerned. So, of course, the parties here will be those to whom administrative decisions have been issued. This can even be derived from the regulation, of which I had some doubts about the notification of the initiation of the procedure, because it is a requirement from the Code of Administrative Procedure that the party should be notified of the initiation of the procedure. Art. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 regulates it. So that it can already be argued that the parties to the proceedings take part, and this is the fundamental right of the party. If the party had not taken part in the proceedings, it would have been a reason at all for reopening the proceedings pursuant to Article. 145 §1 or 5 c.p.a.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u65	I'd like to ask Senator Silence's answer. I have three questions. In the opinion of the Supreme Court, according to the Constitution, we have a separation of judicial and executive powers. The Supreme Court's opinion accuses this committee of being mixed. I would like to know whether there has been a discussion on this subject and how these doubts have been answered. The second question to the senator, the more the lawyer... we have a basic rule that the law doesn't work backwards. In the opinion of the Supreme Court, we are dealing with solutions which, in fact, contain an element of criminal repression and may lead to a violation of constitutional protection of property in the area of such... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Oh, I'm so sorry. The senator wanted to ask you something.]] [[Again.]] I'm going back to the beginning of the question because I don't know how much the senator heard when I asked my second question. [[I heard the whole thing.]] The whole thing? [[Yes. I have divisive attention.]] I'd like to ask you about a case like this. Was there any discussion on this subject, and if it was, was there an answer to the question that the Commission's scope of action should cover about the last 25 years? And how's that gonna look? If a 20-year-old decision is dealt with, how will this relate to the limitation of criminal liability, etc.? Has this issue been raised at the committee meeting? And last, third question. The principle of responsibility, as I and your senator were once taught as lawyers, is linked to the activities of a person. Meanwhile, here we are talking about the liability of those who have received a refund because, as a result, they have disposed of the property, and they will have to return, as it is said here, the wrong benefits received. But it can happen that these people have nothing to do with irregularities concerning actions taken, decisions taken, because irregularities can be caused by the actions of both officials at all unrelated to this man, and for example. Agent. Was there a discussion that there was a link between responsibility... i.e. is it to place responsibility on a person when she did not commit a crime or even realized that there was an irregularity at all? Was there a discussion on this subject, and could the senator comment on the problem I raised? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u66	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u67	Mr. Senator, in answer to the first question concerning the Supreme Court's observations, I can say this: I don't think Contrary to what you were quoting In order to ensure that the body established, the committee established, is in the administrative field, in the judicial field, is right to exist. It is a typical administrative body. I will remind you that from his judgments he will have a complaint to the provincial administrative court and then even a cassation complaint to the Supreme Administrative Court. So that this separation is preserved here: on the one hand, it is an administrative authority, on the other hand, it is judicial authorities, and it is two instances. As for the issue of the temporality of all events and the issue of liability for events so distant, let me be honest with you, there has been no discussion in this area, as I recall. I think, of course, we're going to have to apply some general principles, e.g. As far as criminal law is concerned, it will be criminal law rules. The Act, as I said, does not provide for criminal liability, but only provides that a decision by committing a crime is a prerequisite for moving the decision. As for the next issue, that responsibility will be borne by those who have not done anything wrong, I must admit that, frankly, I do not understand this question very much. I do not see the moments when responsibility would be completely detached from the specific action for which responsibility is assumed. Maybe the senator can show me one of those articles, because I, to be honest, didn't pick it up. Maybe I'm wrong, but... [[I'm gonna ask my friends to ask more questions, and I'm gonna go back to that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u68	Okay, I get it. I thank the rapporteur very much. [[There you go.]] Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u69	Then maybe to Senator Silence, too, so maybe the senator can stay on the stand. Mr. Senator, I'm in the same spirit. Will the committee be able to issue a decision before the court or other authority has established that the documents have been falsified or that the offence has been committed? It is known that crime is when there is a final conviction by a court of law, not by an administrative decision. Hence the question: will the committee be able to make a decision before this statement? That's the first question. Maybe one more question, about that appeal road you started talking about. I'd like to know exactly what the appeal is. The Senator rapporteur said that he was counting on the committee to finish work by the end of this term. I am convinced that he will not finish any case until the end of this term. How long will the appeal procedures last? It is well known that review procedures for decision-making take a lot, a lot of time. Are there any decisions at all, except, of course, those few, two or three that will be announced... For 4,000 decisions I'm sure a few hundred Maybe even thousands are at stake. It should be examined. Therefore, this committee will probably work, like the orchestra to play, until the end of the world and one day longer, because it is not able to solve these problems with such a specific almost specific approach. These two questions are addressed to Senator Silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u70	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u71	The answer to the first question. The key issue here is the finding of a crime. In general terms, the principle is that there should first be a judgment stating this crime. But there are exceptions to this and such an exception is provided for in many different laws, such as the Code of Administrative Procedure, where Article. 145 §2 states that for the reasons set out here is an indication of the offence or false proof The procedure may also be resumed before a misrepresentation of evidence or an offence is established by a judgment of a court or other authority, where the counterfeiting of evidence or the committing of a crime is obvious and the resumption of proceedings is necessary to avoid a danger to human life or health or serious damage to the social interest. A similar regulation, which I recall from memory, is probably in the Labour Code, which also provides the basis for the termination of the employment contract without notice in the event of the offence being committed by the employee. There is also an appropriate provision which states that, if the offence is obvious, it is not necessary to expect a judgment of a criminal court which is generally competent to determine whether or not the offence has been committed. Was there another question? [[Then I'll ask, Mr. Senator, because I was talking about the decision and I was asking...]] Oh, yeah, about the decision. You asked for appeal, didn't you? [[...not for the initiation of proceedings. We have a decision, and then we'll find out...]] [[...that there was no crime.]] [[...that there was no crime, and it would take years, of course, to unscrew the whole case.]] Then there's a reason to reopen the procedure. [[Yeah, but I'm talking about the decision. Can the committee make a decision before saying what we've been dealing with? From these rules, maybe, which is why I'm asking...]] Yeah, yeah, I get it. You mean a situation where the committee assumes that a crime has been committed, makes a decision... [[Yeah, and then we'll see...]] ...and then the court, for example. He's gonna exonerate a man. Yes? [[Yeah, yeah.]] This is, of course, a reason for reopening the procedure, which ended with the decision of that committee. [[Yeah, okay.]] General rules. [[Good. There was a question about the appeal. How long is this gonna take? If you were to discuss the appeal against the committee's decision...]] The appeal is, as I said before, a two-way street. I was talking about this second section, i.e. the next stage of the proceedings, namely the complaint to the provincial administrative court, and then the cassation complaint to the Supreme Administrative Court. But before that, there's a quasi-revocative road, which is supposed to be an appeal, which is that the committee can be asked to re-examine the case. This is an institution which is used in administrative proceedings, whenever decisions are issued by the general or central state authorities, over which, as you know, no one is standing. The same is true here: no one stands over the committee in administrative proceedings. This instrument is therefore envisaged, sometimes called a horizontal appeal, i.e. a request for the Commission to review the case for a second time. [[I'll ask, then, because you didn't quite understand me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u72	Mr. Senator, I suggest you ask in the next round. [[But it's just a quick question.]] You're welcome, but briefly...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u73	Well, if this committee re-examines the case, then the provincial administrative court, and if there's an appeal, then the Supreme Administrative Court... How long do you think it's gonna take to finish the whole thing? Because we're talking about the end of our term here. That's why I'm asking you this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u74	Knowing the functioning of our courts, I can tell you that the lawyers say that human judgments are unexplored, and the divine inexplicable. This applies in particular to the length of proceedings before courts. Until recently, they were quite long-lasting, sometimes cases were brought before administrative courts for a few years, but at the moment the situation is better. Well, the examination of the case by the voivodship administrative court since the filing of the complaint At least in the Cracow district it lasts about six months. In the case of the Supreme Administrative Court, this shall take approximately one year from the receipt of the cassation action.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u75	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question, Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u76	I am directing these questions to you, but maybe your colleague, the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, will help, because during the work of the Committee, I did not get any answers to these questions. Firstly, you have not quoted the opinion of the institutions that have been involved in this matter. Both public institutions and third-sector institutions. I would ask you to quote the opinions of these institutions, to quote even one legal opinion, the author of which is positive about this project. Secondly, in the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The second point is that the committee has the right to repeal the reprivatisation decision, following, as stated, a legal view. Let's consider that even the chairman doesn't have to be a lawyer in this committee. Isn't that some kind of nonsense? How can someone who is not a lawyer be guided by the repeal of a reprivatization decision by a legal view? Who's the goat? [[What's this?]] Finally, thirdly, there is a strict call from a witness or expert, of course under threat of criminal sanctions. The question is: how would people who are mostly about 100 years old and who are abroad read this? Does this mean that they will be forced to come from the United States to question this committee? How do you think this is to be done? And this announcement, this vox populi, that is, on the basis of accepted customs... how is a citizen of another state who is involved in these matters to read in his language the announcement of a minister or committee about the need to appear? [[That's his problem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u77	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u78	Mr. Senator, the question you've asked may concern any procedure. As for the witness who lives abroad and who does not speak Polish, of course no one will require him to come from across the ocean. There are appropriate institutions in court proceedings, so-called. a hearing in the form of legal aid, i.e. hearing before the Consul of the Republic of Poland in the United States, and sometimes it is possible to hear legal aid before the court of the State concerned, if this is the case... As regards the measure to ensure the appearance of a witness or expert, it is a measure in the form of a fine, and such measures are everywhere, although I admit that these fines are quite high. I've been comparing myself, like this... Although no, they are comparable to those of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It's not called a fine. It's called a monetary penalty. Whatever you call it. And it amounts to up to PLN 10,000. This is a measure that ensures, I would say, an effective extortion of the appearance of witnesses. We know what it's like when a witness doesn't stand up sometimes. We can observe this, for example, in the proceedings before the Amber Gold Commission. Some people, who sometimes perform quite serious functions, who have public confidence professions, do not agree to attend a committee meeting. [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u80	2 important questions. I know Senator Silence, but I'd like to know his opinion or the opinion of the other Senator... It is about what were the opinions of the organizations and public institutions about this law. That's question one. And the other. As a lawyer, could you explain what these legal views are for which the decision to reprivatise can be revoked? [[To be honest, Mr. Senator, I don't find...]] I will point out precisely: Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. And yet this decision can be made by a person who has no legal education...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u81	Okay, I got it. The first question, the opinions of the various institutions. The opinions of the various institutions were indeed critical, as Senator Pociej put it. The Supreme Court's opinion... The quite extensive opinion of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights was also critical. As regards the wording that the Commission's legal views on further proceedings are binding on the authority to which the case has been referred for re-examination, this is, ladies and gentlemen, the formula commonly used... [[Oh! You didn't know?]] ...in administrative, civil or criminal procedures. The higher authority which decides shall give indication of the lower instance which are binding on it. Yeah, it's called a lot of things. Here it is so arranged that legal views and indications... But it is generally written that the indications or comments on the further course of the proceedings, as well as the circumstances to be considered... The courts usually write this: the lower court, re-examinationing the case, will consider the interpretation, give it to it, art. 410... [[Voice from the room: Maybe it's called legal interpretation?]] ...of unsubstantiated enrichment... [[Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me.]] ...and the case law of the Supreme Court, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this for? It's just so there's no mess in the procedure. Such an indication of second instance is intended to simplify the matter. Let's imagine there's no indication. Then the first instance could again issue a decision, without regard to the second instance's opinion, which the second instance assessed the first decision negatively and repealed it. The second instance gives an indication of what else to consider, what extent of evidence to be made, e.g. The case law of the Supreme Court or the Court of Human Rights should be taken into account, etc. This is a normal thing that is used in all procedures, so that I do not see anything strange here. Of course, one can discuss who is more competent. It is assumed that a higher authority is more competent, which does not mean that a lower court judge is a worse lawyer. ♪ It's often better ♪ ..than a higher-ranking judge. But for a certain legal order, such rules are established so that proceedings do not last forever. Because if these indications had not taken into account the first instance, then again, we would have been faced with the annulment of the second instance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u82	Thank you very much. And Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I'm addressing Senator Silence. I'll change the question completely. Mr. Senator, you inspired me so much that I have to ask you this question. What you have now said is very systematic and logical. It doesn't mean it's true, but it's logical in a way. You said that's what these interpretations are for, opinions to prevent some mess from happening. That's what I heard. [[Yes.]] If I'm aware, then you're a lawyer or counsel with a lot of experience with a lot of knowledge. Don't you think that the opinions that have been presented, including the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, are in order to consider them, possibly to include them, so that there is no such mess in the procedure? What do you think of these opinions as an experienced lawyer? Is this something that could remove this mess, or are they not at all happening when it comes to this mess? That's the first question. And second question. Do you know if you know a second such country where this kind of construction... I'm not talking about the years before the war, because here we'll find some examples, just the years after the war. Do you know such a democratic country Or maybe undemocratic, maybe from there we'll draw patterns. In the post-war years, when was such a construction of the merger between the executive authority and the judicial authority?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u84	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u85	Well, I'll start with that last question. I think, Mr. Senator, I've explained it enough. Contrary to the assertion that this is a merger between the judicial authority and the administrative authority, this is not the case. [[But that's not what I asked.]] Well, that was the conclusion of your question that we're dealing with an organ that performs these two functions. He does not perform two functions, because, as I say, his decisions are only entitled to an action before the administrative courts, whether ordinary or cassational, as regards the appeal against the decision of the voivodship administrative court to the Supreme Court. So I think I've made it pretty clear... [[Senator Leszek Czarnobaj: Mr. Senator, I was asking about an example of a country in which...]] As far as the country is concerned, I do not have far-reaching discernment, but I can identify various legal solutions that interfere with the right of ownership. And it's not like here, in the case of rights acquired often in a wicked way or even through criminal methods, by committing a crime or using a false document, because that's what the whole of Warsaw is all about. But sometimes God is deprived of the spirit of guilty people's property rights in the name of a wider social interest. And this has often been the subject of the Court of Human Rights; for example, Jackson's case against the United Kingdom. Because such legislation was introduced that, in the name of a certain social order, of social peace and in the name of humanitarian order, in the name of the desire for every man to have a roof over his head, a law was introduced whereby the rightful owners of the property were deprived, for compensation, of course, of property rights for tenants. And the tenants. Where they lived long enough, they became landlords under certain conditions. So that there are different situations. And it cannot be said here that this particular protection must be so absolute, especially in the case of the sustainability of administrative decisions. In particular, I would like to emphasise one thing, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, most of these regulations contain a repetition of what we already have in the codes, in Article. 145 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, i.e. the grounds for reopening the procedure and the grounds for annulment of the decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u86	Thank you, Senator. [[Mrs. Marshal, may I?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u87	Mr. Senator, maybe I could ask that first question again. I know you answered the second one because it was easier to answer it all the time, and the first one... I would like to ask: isn't what is in the opinions that have been provided to the committee, including the opinion of the analysis bureau, an element that could eliminate the mess in the procedure, as you say?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u88	Please, Mr. Senator. Do you have anything else to add on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u89	Sir, Senator, of course, the opinion of the Legislative Office is, I trust, as always, that it deserves to be taken into account in order to ensure the correct legislative process and a number of comments, especially those in which it is important to clarify certain issues as far as possible, in my opinion. I myself have tabled, as I told you earlier, a number of amendments, and I will make some amendments today, but I do not want to get involved in these matters because I am the rapporteur. Well, it's a very complicated bill, and actually, to be perfect, it requires a very tedious job. I think we did a lot of work on the committee. You can never say that something is perfect, but I always follow such an old barrister principle that it is better to write at the right time maybe a non-apogee possibility of a cassation complaint than to write after a perfect time, because then it will have no effect, because it will be rejected. It is similar sometimes with the legislative process. Sometimes you have to make certain decisions, and just like here, with the full awareness that this is a really innovative solution, because we have met with a completely new phenomenon, the scale of corruption in the process. Let's call it that. The privatisation of Warsaw real estate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u90	Thank you very much. Please, the question is asked by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u91	Senator rapporteur, are similar fines imposed or may there be a party who will not appear at the hearing? You were talking, I think, about art. 19, and there's still an article. 18... [[Yeah, well, the marshal answered himself, 'cause it's art. 18...]] Oh, come on. [[...it's about the website.]] [[Senator rapporteur, let's wait a minute, Mr. Marshal will finish the question.]] Yes. And tell me whether you believe, Senator, that the principle that publication in the newsletter is a notification of the parties Because this principle has been introduced, it is included in the Act Can it be used so widely? Should it not be limited only to pages whose addresses or data are not available?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And you ask Senator Aleksander Pociej, if that's what he wants. Yes? [[Yes.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u93	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about the article. 39 (4). He is in the chapter of the Commission's civil-law decision, and this is the way it reads: I will quote only one provision of the Article. 415 civil codec shall not be used. I'm not gonna tell the senator what this article is, I'm gonna tell my colleagues who aren't lawyers. Art. 415 of the Civil Code reads: "Who has done this because of his fault?" to the other, it is obliged to make good the damage. Could the senator tell me... [[But wait, wait, I'm sorry. Because you're quoting material law, and before that, you were talking about trial...]] I'm sorry, yeah... [[...oh, c.p.k.]] Excuse me. [[Exactly.]] Excuse me. In a minute... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u94	There you go, Mr. Piotr Florek... You're welcome, Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u95	I have a question. Maybe it's Senator Burns. As far as I know, almost identical amendments were made by both committees. My question is the following: Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3, that the chairman of the committee is the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration... in the article. 4 in paragraph 2. 5 is the provision that the members of the committee appointed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the date of appointment shall include the duties of State Secretaries in the Ministry of Justice. And there is an amendment to this article, an amendment adopted by both committees, it is an amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 5. This amendment is the following: the members of the committee appointed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland in the performance of their duties shall carry out tasks relating solely to the exercise of their duties in committee. And here I don't understand something: since the chairman of the committee is located in the Ministry of Justice, he is appointed by the President, and the members of the committee are unassigned... they are acting in some committee that is subject to the Sejm... It is a puriazum that the chairman is located somewhere, and the members of the committee carry out tasks solely related to the exercise of their duties. That's the record. I don't understand what the co-operation of the committee will be like then. Does this amendment, which was tabled by the PiS senators, exhaust this remark and those allegations that were made regarding the location of all the members of the committee in the Ministry of Justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u96	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u97	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm gonna answer your question yes. I mean, I think this amendment is exhausting those doubts. The main point was that there would be some paradoxical situation in which all the members of the committee are State Secretarys in the Ministry of Justice. This is about finding some kind of legal structure that makes it possible to pay the members properly... We need to come up with a pattern on a certain legal basis for these members. It seems to me that such a position that they have the rank of state secretaries involves certain powers, certain powers, certain financial status. That's mostly what this was all about. It was not the bill to extend the Ministry of Justice's ministry to the next nine State Secretarys. I can say that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u98	Thank you. Senator Tomasz Grodzki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I have three questions, basically all for your Counselor Silence. Art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2nd Constitution says that a special court or ad hoc court can only be established for wartime. As I understand it, this cherie-style committee In short, the Waiting is the result of a reprivatization war, but I think this interpretation is too broad, since the constitution's creators had something else in mind. My question is two things. One is the immunity of the members of this committee. May I remind you that the Secretarys of State... As soon as the government resigns, all the Secretarys of State resign, so this committee will probably disappear. And the immunity of the members of this committee is, in my opinion, too far gone because it is greater than the immunity of parliamentarians. They have no responsibility, no consequences for irresponsible behavior. I'd like a comment on that. The whole record of this project is very restrictive. It's about penalties, fines, etc. The committee may waive the obligation to return the equivalent of the undue benefit. I would also ask your patron to comment on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u100	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u101	Mr. Senator, the first question about responsibility and what you called absolute immunity... There is indeed a regulation that has existed, but I would like to say one thing: it does not relieve you of your responsibility for the actions of your officers, because it is an art. 417 of the Civil Code, which is in force and in force, as well as of Article. 77 of the Constitution, which provides that the State is responsible for the actions of its officers, and I would remind you that this is a liability independent of the culpability of these officers. We have had a long history with this responsibility of the state for the damage caused to citizens, because I will remind you that by 1956 it was not at all, then in 1956, although the Civil Code has not changed, the Supreme Court, in this case, carried out a very good interpretation that, however, it is the responsibility of the officers for the damage done, except that it thought it should be blamed, and only the Constitution of 1997 introduced it in Article. 77 the principle of responsibility, regardless of the culpability. So that it is not so that a man who, as a result of the error of that commission, would suffer injury, has no chance to obtain compensation for this damage, because, as I say, these two articles It's still in force. [[But my point is, the officers of this committee are unpunished. We'll pay for their mistakes, not them. It's a psychic approach.]] Well, you can really argue about that, although the intention was that those who didn't have judge status would feel independent and not be subject to any pressure, pressure or... Yeah, well, it happens all the time, but we've got... I don't speak politically very often, but you know what happens, what sometimes claims are being made against the ruling coalition, is scared that ministers will answer, or even the president is scared, that he is supposed to be responsible for his actions before the Court of State, or that any criminal proceedings may be initiated... Well, ladies and gentlemen, the point is that those people who don't have the position that the president has, whether it's the minister or the judge, feel free from this kind of pressure, which unfortunately, as I have mentioned here, by going into a little bit more than legal, just political, about what's going on in our present reality...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u102	Thank you. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Silence, too. You provoked me just now with a statement concerning the immunity of the members of the committee. Tell me why, then, this immunity is greater than immunity, e.g. Members or senators. Tell me why there isn't an organ that could take that immunity in the right situation... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Abort.]] ...scramble. There's no such thing, and... So that I would ask for an answer to that question. And the second question I have. I would also like to refer to... I understand that this was your senator's opinion, because such statements, as I recall, did not occur at the committee meeting, but I would like you to refer to the particular opinion of the Supreme Court. Knowing that you're a lawyer, and I'm sure you have the utmost respect for the Supreme Court, as do the citizens, I'd like to... It is the highest appeal body in Poland. I would like you, given what you said earlier in response to the questions, to address the following opinion. The most serious reservations This is paragraph 3 of the opinion of the Supreme Court. This is to be reported in relation to the proposed arrangements concerning the powers of the Commission. They result in a combination of the powers of the executive authority and the powers of the judicial authority. Such a solution is in breach of the principle of the division of power. That's what the Supreme Court says in its opinion. And it still justifies it. I will not give the whole justification here, but it is said, among other things, that the authorities of the legislative authority are legal standards. In short, the judicial authority's task is to bring justice to justice and the executive authorities carry out the tasks of the State in specific cases, except in cases of dispute. As you know, litigation is settled by the courts. And that is why I would like you to address these two points. Thank you very much. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u104	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u105	Senator, speaking of respect for the Supreme Court... [[Mr. Senator, how about some water? Isn't it? Is everything okay? Please...]] Please? [[Water?]] Oh, Mr. Marshal is very kind, actually, a little water would be nice. Not that I fainted after asking the senator, just for the convenience of speaking. Mrs. Senator, regardless of all respect for the Supreme Court, I, as a lawyer, often came to argue with the Supreme Court, and with success, before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. So that we don't treat Supreme Court as infallible arbitration. Of course, account should be taken of the experience and authority enjoyed by the Supreme Court. I would also like him to have even greater authority. I'm sure this would be the case if it weren't for the unfortunate situations I was talking about in connection with the previous law, when in 150 cases people were deprived of pensions and livelihoods, and in more than 100 cases cassation complaints were not accepted. And those that have been accepted have been dismissed. But I'll get back to the point. Well, the question of division... what bodies will be involved in certain cases is a contractual matter and left to the individual countries to decide. I always pay attention to this in the interpretation of the article. 6th European Convention on Human Rights. Because there is a right to obtain a judgment within a reasonable period of time in any civil or criminal case. And very often the authorities reply that they are not subject to this Article. 6, because they are conducting administrative proceedings. But they forget that sometimes they conduct administrative proceedings in matters which are by their very nature civil, because they concern property, sometimes they concern payment, i.e., in short, money, they concern the right to perform certain economic activities, various types of concessions, etc. These are, by nature, civil cases, but entrusted to administrative authorities. Well, we're also dealing with a situation here when things... From the beginning they were administrative in the sense of procedure, but civil in the sense of matter, because they concerned property, i.e. matters from the point of view of material law clearly civil rather than administrative. And, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a situation since the beginning that these cases have been handled by administrative authorities, because decisions have been made, as they say, in the city hall, i.e. in administrative proceedings, in front of the administrative body which is here, in this case, the President. Because it's on behalf of the commune that the president decides and makes decisions. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing new here, and these issues are still left to the administration and, of course, comply with the general principles of judicial review by the administrative court. [[Cell phone signal]] Oh, I'm so sorry. [[Senator, there was also a question about the waiver of immunity from committee members.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there's really no provision for the waiver of immunity, but perhaps it's related... It is difficult for me to reason with the projectors, but I guess it is probably linked to the fact that such a member of the committee can be called off, in case it turns out that he is embezzling his actions with the mission entrusted to that committee, it may be cancelled. [[Thank you...]] [[Immunity still works, Counselor. If he's called off, immunity still works. Read it.]] You're right, Senator, in the sense that immunity will work in the case of the acts that this committee member has committed. I'm not discovering anything new here. I admit that this is a specific solution, but the situation is also extraordinary and maybe that's why this solution was adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u106	Thank you. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u107	I'd just like to clarify, Mr. Senator, about these appeals... So first, the same committee. It's still pretty bizarre in itself, but it's okay. Then the provincial administrative court, then the Supreme Administrative Court. As I understand it, then you can still go to the courthouse. [[Please?]] You can still go to the courthouse, can't you? I mean, if someone was taken from someone, for example. property of such a committee's decision... [[Yes.]] ...well, he's the one who can defend himself somewhere. Administrative courts deal mainly with complaints in a formal and not in substance. [[Yes.]] So, as I understand it, that someone will still be able to go to the courthouse. [[It's common.]] It's common.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u108	Right. [[There we go. Okay. Thank you.]] It is about what I said earlier, that there is the responsibility of the State Treasury under Article. 77 Constitutions and Art. 417 Civil Code.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u109	Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u110	I listened very carefully to what you said, Counselor. I'm afraid your statement that this is an innovative solution is missing the truth. I agree with you that this is a specific solution, but it is not innovative. If you'd read it. - Or you've read it. Professor Stanisław Waltosia's work, known everywhere, is a criminal procedure. The outline of the system, you would have noticed that this has already been the case. It is a decree of the Council of Ministers dated 10 November 1945, i.e. from the black night of Stalinism in Poland, the establishment of a Special Commission for Combating Abuse and Economic Damage. The scope of competence was a little broader at the time, because it was the whole country, not just Warsaw, but the mechanism of functioning of that committee, outside the law and beyond the law, was identical. So it's not an innovative solution, Mr. Counselor. You're making a connection. I'll tell you what. For good solutions from the times of Stalinism. Just read this decree and compare it with this bill. So I would like to ask you if you are aware that what you are proposing right now is basically, with some modifications, a copy of the folk court placed above the law, outside the law, outside the Polish legal system. And in that sense, - Just like you said. This solution is specific.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u111	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna skip those pinchy words of yours that don't matter at all. Probably as a so-called. A finished lawyer, and this is the Jagiellonian University, I know the same decree. I don't see the similarities you were talking about here. Please note to one thing that that decree concerned the fight by the communist state, as it was termed, economic abuse, and here it is essentially about legal protection of legitimate owners. After all, this law is designed to repair the iniquity that has been accomplished as a result of negligence. It is, first of all, about the Bierutian lawlessness, i.e. the infamous decree which deprived Warsaw property owners of their rights, and secondly, about the abandonment, already in free Poland, after 1989. And it was an outrageous omission to say about it. 'Cause it wasn't a reprivatization bill. We are the only ungrateful state that has operated in a post-communist system that has not issued such a law. There was a bill passed, but unfortunately President Kwasniewski vetoed it. And we were reaping the fruitage of these activities. Right now, we need to fix this, and we're not doing it in the name of fighting. Just like the Stalin decree you mentioned. In the name of respect for the property rights of persons to whom they have been taken away as a result of the use of various types of mechanisms, even mechanisms of the criminal type of counterfeiting of documents, or obtaining certain decisions in exchange for certain material advantages, i.e. here the corruption element came into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u112	Thank you. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u113	Mr. Senator, I'm going back to my question about the article. 415 c.p.c. The senator has just said several times that there is no problem with pursuing claims under Article. 417 Civil Code. Art. 415, which has been repealed by that law, says: "By repealing or amending the judgment, the court, at the applicant's request, shall, in its judgment concluding the proceedings, rule on the reimbursement of the benefits satisfied or enforced or the restoration of the former. This does not exclude the possibility of investigating in a separate process, including from the State Treasury, the compensation of the damage suffered by the issuing or executing of such a judgment. Doesn't the senator think that if... Did you discuss why art. 415 c.p.c. Has it been turned off? [[That's one question. Is there gonna be another one or not?]] No. Just one.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u114	We haven't discussed this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u115	And don't you think, senator, that disabling this article might just exclude the responsibility of the State Treasury? How to read...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u116	Oh, come on. Mr. Senator, Art. 415... I didn't get a chance to view this article, but, as far as I'm concerned, it concerns the situation of reopening. [[Yes.]] Art. It is likely that 405 refers to the reopening of proceedings and further articles, including Article. 415, they are developing this issue. So this is simply where the resolution resulting from the repeal of the decision, which was taken in breach of the law, was adopted, the solution whereby a decision would be issued which would decide on matters relating to compensation. At least that's how I understand it. But wait a minute... I need to read into this because, frankly, you have raised an issue that has not actually been discussed, which is why I need to think about it and, above all, read it carefully. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Senator rapporteur Zbigniew Cichoń reads the bill]] [[Mr. Senator, maybe later. Mr. Senator, maybe later, because it doesn't have...]] Yeah, yeah. Excuse me... To be honest, without reading these two provisions and the article. 39 I can't answer. That's because you have to think about it for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u117	Thank you. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u118	Then maybe I should go to Senator Silence. I am referring to the exploratory procedure and the duration of this procedure. Senator Borowski has just asked a clear question about how these procedures will look. But I'd ask about the reconnaissance. Question: Will the value of the property be determined by an asset valuer in reconnaissance proceedings? And if so, at what time? We know what a complicated valuation is. This is the state at the time of the decision, the decree of Bierut. What year was that? The 1950s, 1952. That's the state of that time, and the current prices, of course. So it's complicated and time-consuming. Was that taken into account? And the further question is: who and how will he grant compensation or compensation? Is this gonna be the committee? And if the committee, on the basis of what will such compensation be granted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u119	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u120	Mr. Senator, this is a matter governed by the article. 31, which expressly states that the committee imposes an obligation to reimburse the equivalent of undue benefit on the person to whom reprivatisation decisions have been issued. In the mouth. 2 is said What did you just say? That the state of the property is taken into account when it is taken over by such a person. So if it was a couple of years ago, it's what it was like back then. That someone, for example. repairing or rebuilding, or any other enrichment in terms of the value of this property, is not taken into account. So it's a matter of fact. And when it comes to value, of course, you take into account the value that is now, because, as you know, these values can change over time. It used to be that they usually changed in plus, and, as we know, after 2007, it happened differently, as a rule it was in minus, now, it seems, it evens out. I don't know, I don't know about real estate prices.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u121	Thank you. Senator Sławomir Rybicki:
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u122	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, in one of your answers, you would like to say that you yourself are the author of the amendments to make this project perfect. I wonder how an excellent project can be, which is evidently, grossly unconstitutional, contains many solutions that are vague, vague, and which raise doubts about interpretation. And will not these interpretation doubts, and also the absence of any time-limit for the Commission's action, be a pretext for such arbitrary decision on the order of consideration of cases or the choice of cases to be dealt with? Will such arbitrage simply not be used as an instrument in the political fight? [[No. Why would you think that?]] Such a lack of a clear time frame for action.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u123	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u124	Mr Senator, as far as the amendments I propose are concerned, I do not think that once these amendments are made, the bill will be perfect. She's certainly not gonna make it, and in almost rare cases, things are perfect. Perfect is only the Lord God. And what man does, especially in humanities, unlike technical science, is very imperfect. For this reason, I envy the representatives of science, where, as you know, 2x2 is always 4. But in humanities it is different, and especially in such activities as legislative activity or legal practice, when various kinds of elements weigh and result are not strictly mathematical when we are talking about determining the settlement of a case or laying down a law, but certainly the amendments that I am submitting to you in a moment you will find out what they are. This law should make it better and clearer. An example is the article. 33, in which we provide compensation for those persons, in short, who have been evicted as a result of violence or increases in the rent made by these house cleaners. Stately, here it is provided that compensation or redress is due, and at the end there is a statement stating that if the wicked actions I have mentioned have caused a deterioration of the material situation. I believe that this wording about material deterioration is unnecessary here, and it even causes the rule to be illegible. We're talking about compensation at the beginning, and there's still some way to connect the deterioration of the material situation, but if we're talking about redress... Ladies and gentlemen, compensation involves repairing, as it is said, non-property damage, that is, repairing the harm that has happened to someone, and such unlawful influence, the use of coercion in the form of, I do not know, the cut-off of the media has happened. I need to put a pebble in the legislator's backyard. Well, ladies and gentlemen, when the penal code was amended in 1997, I was terrified that the law had been amended in Article. 167, where an additional requirement for criminal liability was introduced in criminal proceedings for forcing a person to act or not, namely, it had to be a direct impact on the person. So everybody, this whole bully thing, because that's how you define it, which cut people off, for example. The media remained unpunished to force them to leave. I don't know who was that kind of law in 1997. I was, frankly, not a parliamentarian at the time, so I had a more idealistic idea of lawmaking and wondered how this was possible. But now I see that maybe it was in the interest of some lobbyist group, since then there were so many situations of throwing people on the pavement and the prosecution was powerless, and the proceedings died because she claimed that cutting off the media since the change was made was no longer a crime since 1997. Yes, it was, and unfortunately, it all comes together in a certain way.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u125	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? [[...I didn't get the answer to the second part of the question. I'm glad the senator's making amendments to make this bill just any kind of...]] You can remind them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u126	...to make it more civilized, but I'm talking about arbitraryness, which will accompany the committee's actions. Since there is no guidance on the scope and duration of the committee, there is a temptation to treat the subject of the committee arbitraryly and this clearly exposes its action to a political assessment. Can't you see... Is it not a mistake not to set any time limits and scope?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u127	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u128	Well, Mr. Senator, it seems to me that here, as in any administrative matter, it is an administrative body which should act in accordance with the rules of the Article. 7 and Article 7 35 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, in a lawful manner, when examining cases, in addition within a reasonable period of time. I realize that in life there can be some deviation that is criminal. If someone hadn't followed these rules and followed selectively to achieve, I don't know, some political advantage... I don't think it should be that way. As far as I know, in administrative proceedings, cases are dealt with in the order of their impact. Of course, there are always some exceptions to this, because if the case concerns a very important issue concerning the irreversible effects that may occur, and it is necessary to act immediately, then of course the administration must settle certain matters outside the order. Here, too, you can imagine such situations, gentlemen, that sometimes you will have to settle the matter out of order. For example, if it turns out that there is some irreparable damage, for example, someone will want to do something by referring to a legal title that he has obtained illegally, some action to dispose of the property or a change in its substance at all... These are some exceptional situations and you can imagine that then this committee should act outside the normal order. Moreover, it is the duty of the authorities, as are the courts, to take into account what is, so to speak, the rate of proceedings for the party concerned. Because if on the one hand there is a property whose value is negligible, and on the other hand we are dealing with, I do not know, some historic palace worth tens of millions of zlotys And he came to the person who had obtained such a decision illegally. And there's a risk that this palace could dematerialize from the legal side, because someone would get rid of it or do other activities, so that the result of a faulty decision wouldn't be reversed, so no doubt the office should be dealing with such a matter in the first place, not the case of a plot on which the barrack stands. Yeah, I think we're aware of that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u129	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u130	I would still question the senator about the similarities between that decree and that bill. Of course, we are aware that there are differences, i.e. there is no National National Council at the moment, for its bureau does not sign anything anymore Bolesław Bierut, there is no Władysław Gomulka, Michał Żymierski, Stanisław Radkiewicz, i.e. those who signed that decree. There are also differences of interest, which I mentioned, which is obvious. The scope of that decree was wider than the scope of that law, and that was a decree, and that is a law. However, the subject range is identical. It's identical. It's about the people who did the quote. Abuse, looting, corruption, bribery and speculation. No one disputes that in Warsaw, both during the time of President Kaczyński's holy memory, as well as during the times of Mrs Gronkiewicz-Waltz's presidency, there were unacceptable things, but should the mechanism transferred alive from the 1945 Decree to combat fraud and economic damage be applied to a reality that has nothing to do with Stalinism, i.e. the Third Republic? You want to bring in a super-court because it's a court that... After all, the powers you want to assign to this committee are prosecutorial and judicial. She's supposed to suspend pending court proceedings. I mean, she's supposed to cancel the court decisions she's already given. So this is a supercourt. This corresponds to a live art. 1 of that decree, which said that that committee was set up to detect and prosecute, i.e. it was prosecutorial competence, and art. 11, which states that all authorities, state and local authorities and judicial and prosecutorial authorities must comply with the provisions of the committee. [[Which article is it?]] No, I'm talking about Bieruta's decree... [[Oh, yeah.]] ...about which... [[Good.]] ...which you have in mind... [[Good, 'cause I just didn't see it...]] ...and which is in the field of competence just identical. And I would like to ask you what you will say to Krakow's Palace, how you will return home, about this striking similarity between the 1945 decree and the bill on this committee. [[Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u131	All right, Mr. Senator, respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u132	Mr. Senator, the fact that sometimes there's a resemblance to certain things doesn't prove that we're back to Stalinist times. Because in every code of every country, even the most totalitarian, you have a department that deals with punishment for deprivation of life, you have a department that deals with body damage, theft, etc. Therefore, it does not appear that the protection of the same goods, such as life, property, immunity, in democratic times, cannot be established because of the fact that a code or another act has been adopted in a totalitarian system. Of course, one can wonder how to do it, whether to do it in the same way as here, that we accept the existence of a committee that will decide on these issues whether to do it in a different way. But one thing I would like to clarify and address your concerns: the competences of this committee do not concern you. They're not as far ahead as you said they were. Judgments. If the case has been dealt with by the court, then this committee has absolutely no right to interfere with and repeal this decision, I assure you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u133	Thank you. Senator Władysław Komarnicki... There you go. Are you a senator? [[There isn't.]] [[There isn't.]] No, there isn't. This is Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u134	Mr. Senator, chapter 3 of the committee. There's art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1: The Commission shall issue decisions and provisions. And there's lips. 2: The chairman of the committee may issue arrangements. And I'm looking all over the bill for something about these regulations, what arrangements may possibly be made. I didn't find anything, no delegation, nothing, and there's a record that says he can issue orders. So something doesn't suit me here, since we don't have a link to what kind of arrangement he can make. [[Well, Lord...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u135	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u136	Mr. Senator, the order... Of course, I can give you an example of the arrangements that the committee chairman will issue: e.g. of the date of the hearing and of notification to the parties. It's an order. It does not have to be issued collegially, which means there is no need for a resolution here, and even more unacceptable is the decision. The chairman of the committee shall do so by order. [[There's no record...]] Please? [[There is no record of the powers of the President, of what arrangements he may issue. It's basically in every bill there is. That's why I'm surprised.]] It can certainly not issue regulations on substantive matters, i.e. those that are settled in the decision, as well as on the essential procedural issues that concern, for example, suspension of proceedings, because it is already reserved for the committee as such. [[Thank you...]] But these arrangements are relatively rare. Because, as I say, as I think of it at the moment, it is most often about setting a trial date and order to inform the parties or possibly witnesses or to send a letter to the expert asking for an opinion, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u137	Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Will the committee have to make full decisions? They're anticipated... [[Oh, come on.]] ...predicted...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u138	No, as I recall, there's an estimated minimum of five people.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u139	Five people? Good. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do you, Deputy Minister Patrick, wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Jak: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u140	Dear Marshal, High Senate! During the discussion there was a historical comparison to Stalinist times. Let me say this: it is absolutely legitimate in my opinion, only that this comparison should apply not to the work of the committee, but to what was happening in Warsaw. What happened in Warsaw was exactly what happened in Stalinist times. There was an elite who was convinced that she had some special qualities to steal people from their property, and she was still wearing it in the letters of the law. This was happening in Warsaw. What we're discussing today... This is really a discussion about the relationship: the state of the organized crime group. What was happening here in Warsaw was going through all limits: curators were established for 140-year-olds; pretended not to have a document, although there was a lot of evidence that there was a document that was suddenly found in strange circumstances after 2 years and the key property disappeared in Warsaw. Someone bought numismatics from the Second Republic of Poland and claimed to own a particular company, so they deserve some real estate, etc. It was all happening here, and that's what the state elites did. I'd rather call them a organized crime group who claimed the right to some special stealing from citizens. If that wasn't enough, there's even been a brutal murder. The murder of the person who mentioned it. The rest didn't say anything. The state authorities claimed against all the facts that it was some kind of suicide, that this woman was burned herself. Today we are discussing whether the Polish state in such a situation, in view of the actions of such an organized criminal group, is to be helpless and helpless. We don't think so. And that's why this special body, this committee, is going to be set up. Let me read a fragment of the opinion on this law by Professor Grabowska, whose, to be clear, is far from the Law and Justice, our government or our way of thinking. Recently revealed the scale of pathological phenomena related to so-called. The wild reprivatisation of Warsaw real estate shows that there is a need for a rapid state response to numerous cases of violation or circumvention by many beneficiaries of this reprivatisation, causing, sometimes even dramatic, negative effects on existing users of these properties, e.g. evictions on the street. Since it turned out that the courts and prosecutors were not able to effectively and efficiently eliminate the negative effects of wild reprivatisation from the legal order, nor to provide the victims with adequate redress, the project's way of verifying the correctness of decisions made in this respect by the local authorities of the capital city of Warsaw in the administrative procedure conducted by the central government body with special powers may be the only solution. I would like to say, High Senate, that I am convinced that if we as a Polish state do not find instruments to respond to such cases, it will not be better. It's going to get worse. We believe that we should defend the Polish state against such abuses. In this situation, we should put in our pocket any political problems that may result from this for a particular environment, because this is about whether the state can be humiliated in this way by a criminal group or not. We don't think so. Hence such solutions. I'm deeply convinced. I would like to point out here that this solution is in the Polish legal order. As far as the specific elements of this solution are concerned... The creation of a 9-person committee, which will have the right to take decisions, to verify reprivatisation decisions, to take specific decisions, all within the framework of administrative proceedings. There is absolutely no new institution here when it comes to the instrument. In addition, she will work on this committee so-called. the social council, which is to emerge from the Warsaw organizations particularly well deserved in the fight for the truth related to reprivatization, and this social council will have the right to deliver an opinion on any decision taken by the review committee. Why are we bringing this in? Because we believe that in this situation it is worth giving birth to a social factor, which has so far been ignored in this important process. Your Senate, the problem is that we don't really have an alternative. I mean, either we look for a special solution, or we find, as many people have already said in various publications, that the state has lost in this case. I think the state doesn't have to lose in this case. And the very fact that since the draft law appeared, almost all administrative proceedings have been suspended in this area, there is no further scandal, it is already the success of this type of behaviour, because people who are responsible for it have started to fear. I think it can't be that the Polish state is afraid of a group of criminals. These groups are supposed to be afraid of the Polish state. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u141	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u142	Thank you very much. I think, Minister, that both the number of questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs that were here today, and the quality of these questions, proves that... I am here, here. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Jak: Sorry.]] ...witnesses that everyone wants the bill, if we're going to process it, and if it comes into force, it's almost perfect, fair and solves some problems. Therefore, do not be surprised that my question will also be related to what was raining here. In the title of the act is the word "warszawska". Does this mean that there will be laws related to reprivatization for Poznań, Wrocław, Krakow, Szczecin, etc., separate? Shouldn't it be a reprivatization bill that solves at the state level... You still use the wording that the Polish state, that we should... Maybe it should be the solutions of the Polish state to these problems, these issues, maybe it should simply be treated as a reprivatization law prepared by the government without using the name of a particular city? I understand it's supposed to start with Warsaw, because it's about this period. You emphasize that, and we all stress that. The biggest irregularities. This is my first question about naming and whether this law will apply to other cities and whether the name will change. My second question is this. At the beginning of this law there is a very detailed description of the procedure for setting up committees, which rules, who, etc. Haven't I seen it? If so, please draw my attention to it or explain it to me. Where is he and should there be an appeal? Is this the committee that will sit forever until the end of the world? Because especially if immunity is held by its members, then this committee will never... whether its members will never be able to be cancelled, for example. You'll have to apply for the waiver of immunity or you won't be able to waive the immunity... What conclusion of this committee is even taken into account? And the third question is: what is the scope of the exploratory procedure? Because I'll admit I'm having second thoughts here. Whether this exploratory procedure will take place on the basis of K.p.k. or c.p.c., or on the basis of any separate rules specially adapted by the committee for such proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u143	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u144	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, your pathetic speech towards us has moved me, but I have the impression that this appeal should not be directed towards us, because no one like us wants to go side by side with you and punish all the criminals involved in these matters. I can assure you that it is. I'd like to ask you the questions that the Senator rapporteur has sort of passed on to you. If you don't mind, I'm going back to the compensation fund because as a man of the economy, I'm always interested in money. As for this compensation fund that you are calling for, I am quite clear that this is the right idea. I find this a very sensible idea, because these people, Minister, are often entitled to compensation or redress. We are absolutely in favour, but there are no amounts here and it is not known how much these compensations will be paid. Would you be kind enough to satisfy not only my curiosity, but certainly many other people? How much money are we talking about? That's my first question. Now the other one. All the decisions of this verification commission which you wish to establish, the decisions taken as a result of its work, will go to the courts, Minister, including the administrative courts, where proceedings usually last for quite a long time. As an entrepreneur, I've often used it myself, and I know how long it takes. First there will be a provincial administrative court, then the Supreme Administrative Court, so in fact the decisions that the committee will take. Let's assume that after six months of work Only after the next 2 years will they be valid. Is that how it's gonna look, Minister, when it comes to temporal censorship? And the third question. I'd like to ask you a question. I'm going to repeat the second part of my question because the Senator rapporteur sent me back to you. Namely, this committee will replace courts, prosecutors and administrations. It will grant compensation and determine the amount of compensation. And if the committee makes a mistake, who's gonna take responsibility for the damages that will be wrongly awarded to those who asked for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u146	Minister, how many reprivatization decisions were there in the city of Warsaw, and how many prosecutors were involved in this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u147	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u148	In your introductory speech, Minister, you said that the judicial apparatus and the authorities were actually a criminal group. I understand this doesn't apply to today's Attorney General or his subordinate prosecutors. My question is this: if we gave the prosecutor general special powers, including to reopen certain proceedings, why can they not be used to remedy cases which raise such doubts? That's what Minister Ziobro is for. He's got the powers he needs, and if it needs to be increased somehow, it's the easiest thing in the world. Because I read the appointment of this committee as a kind of vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, who is unable to correct these issues. [[Or she doesn't want to.]] Or maybe he doesn't want to. The second question is whether, within the framework of these... Because there were actually many different irregularities that were reported, etc. Are these types of cases The issue of the company Silver, the acceptance of assets there Will they also fall within the scope of this law? The third question concerns Article. 4. In connection with the various reports of who would be the head of this committee... In the mouth. 2 is referred to special requirements, the requirement to have a higher legal education... I understand that this applies to the President appointed by the Council of Ministers, not just to the members of this committee. I'd like to ask you if I understand this correctly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u149	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u150	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Your Senate, to answer the senator's questions... The first question was why the committee would deal only with Warsaw and not with other cities. Because we want to come up against these allegations, which are being made to the committee, because if the committee can deal with so many irregularities in Warsaw itself, then... We want to make this committee work effectively. I mean, let's start with a narrower area range, and then eventually, if it works. It's bigger than that. If we were to extend it immediately to the whole of Poland, then those accusations that are already falling today, that it is too wide here... would be many times stronger. If this tool proves effective I'm sure you'll be strict reviewers. This will also be extended to other cities. I do not see any obstacles here, although this is very complicated in legal terms, because reprivatization processes in each region could be based on different legal arrangements. Here we are talking about the decree of Bieruta, which is characteristic only for Warsaw, but we are open to other ideas. As for the second question of the esteemed senator, that is to say, the possibility of appeal... Of course, there are possibilities of appeal specific to administrative proceedings. I mean, from the decision or order of the committee, it will be possible to appeal to that authority. Then, if the person, the party will be unsatisfied, it will have the opportunity to appeal to the administrative court, and as a last resort To the Supreme Administrative Court. Full judicial review is provided here. The last question was what the diagnosis would be. Reconnaissance will be... The body that is the committee will work under the bill that we present to you today. There are strict criteria under which members of this committee may move. And most of these criteria are criteria written directly from the Code of Administrative Procedure, which is why there is not much news here. Senator Komarnicki... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: I'm sorry, but I don't think the Minister understood my question of appeal. I did not mean to appeal the parties in the case, but to the possibility of appealing the committee or committee members, because this law does not contain any provision at all concerning the procedure for appeal of the committee as such or concerning the termination of its work.]] Dear Senator, I'm sorry, I misunderstood. I'll tell you what. The Act provides that the President shall be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers, and that the members shall be appointed and dismissed by the Sejm, so of course there will be an opportunity... This is the Seym route, as this committee will be the chief central administration, over which there is no more authority. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I apologize in which article... I did not read that the Sejm appealed...]] I'll tell you what, Senator. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 says that... and 8 members in the rank of Secretary of State appointed and cancelled by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I answer Senator Komarnicki's question. The first question was about compensation: where is the funds for... and what is the scope of any compensation. [[Exactly.]] As far as measures are concerned, they will be derived from the work of the committee. The Commission, among others, will have the right to compensate. How will she measure this compensation? Well, she'll measure it based on the value of the property. She will often be able to rely on the estimated operation used by City Hall. We'll always get back to that decision. The funds collected as a result of the committee's work will automatically be transferred to the budget of Warsaw's capital city as a means of special purpose, which Warsaw's capital city will only be able to allocate to compensation for those injured in this particular case. The next question was... [[Excuse me. How about respect, Minister?]] Excuse me? [[Is there any estimate of the amount yet?]] This will already depend on estimates or on what we will determine in the context of the administrative procedure. [[Okay.]] The next question concerned the duration of such proceedings. In this case, I'm actually an optimist, i.e. Time... I think that assuming that decisions will go through all levels of administration, and it doesn't always have to be that way. This will be a significantly shorter period. Because if the committee decides to reopen some proceedings, it will be subject to administrative deadlines, which are very short. Assuming the decision goes to the administrative court... As the honourable senator mentioned, there is an average of 6 months in Małopolska for reconnaissance, and it takes less time in Warsaw, even more. Compared to common courts, this is really a relatively short time, assuming that once again I say it. The entire appeal procedure, then the possible deletion to the Supreme Administrative Court... Third question, possible compensation for error. Well, there's a rule here, too, as in administrative law, i.e. The Treasury... It's exactly the same as in the case of a city hall official in one city or another. Marshal Borusewicz asked how many such decisions concerning reprivatization were in Warsaw. More than 4,000 such decisions concerning reprivatization refunds, if we take into account the whole period after... By narrowing it down to the city of Warsaw. Senator Augustine was asking about... [[I asked you how much...]] Yes? [[...prosecutions were in these cases. Four thousand...]] Uh-huh. How many prosecutions? [[Yes.]] This is a question which is somewhat related to the question of Senator Augustine, i.e. There were preliminary proceedings, but they were all cancelled. There are now more than 128 such proceedings. This is where we move smoothly to Senator Augustine's question. That's the difference between With all due respect, that's what I'm saying. The previous construction of the prosecutor's office and the construction of the prosecutor's office, i.e. not only that there are already so many cases that are really going on, but there are already arrests and positive decisions by the courts in this respect, which have recognised these arrests, i.e. They stated that the evidence gathered in this case by the prosecutor's office was so strong that they had legally recognised these arrests. About what you asked the senator... What's the committee for? Let me explain. The prosecutor shall act in criminal proceedings and the committee shall act in administrative proceedings. The fact that the prosecutor will effectively lead to the conviction of the person responsible for the act will not automatically change the administrative decision for which someone in Warsaw may feel injured. Personally, I do. And I don't think I'm alone in that opinion. That the inhabitants of Warsaw are waiting not only for an indication of the guilty but also for a change of wrong administrative decisions. Therefore, these bodies will be complementary. The prosecutor may request that such proceedings be resumed after the end of his proceedings, but the criminal proceedings are even longer than those two proceedings we mentioned earlier. Therefore, on the basis of the procedure proposed by the senator, First, there would be 5 or 6 years of criminal proceedings with all appeal procedures, then there would be a request for re-examination of administrative proceedings. This would make Warsaw residents wait 10 years. And I don't think they should wait anymore. The state should show here that it is absolutely capable of working. That's the difference. And these elements are complementary to each other. And that's why what we're doing is not a vote of distrust towards the Attorney General. On the contrary, it is like a second element, complementary to the possibilities or the instruments of the state, in the fight against this organised crime group. As far as the education of the members of the committee is concerned, the principle mentioned by the senator concerns, of course, all the members of the committee. And that's all the questions, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. Another round of questions. Mr. Senator... [[I'm sorry, but the Minister didn't answer one question. Will the case package also include e.g. such a case as the issue of the company Silver and the acquisition of assets by it?]] Good. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u152	Thank you. Minister, do you not think that the inclusion in the verification of administrative decisions, but also of some of the criminal nature, is in fact a delay in work and is contrary to the expectations that, as you said yourself, decisions should be made not only effective but also quick? Second question: don't you think that running such cases will limit the legal turnover in the city of Warsaw, because all it takes is a letter to the committee... excuse me, taking work by the committee to block the real estate processes? Third question: do you share Professor Grabowska's opinion to the end? An outstanding, as it turns out, lawyer When she uses words like that, that's the only solution? She forgot this respectable lady that Jaruzelski And that's the question. When he couldn't handle the rule of law, he just interned. So that there are more solutions That's what I'm trying to tell Professor Grabowska. Finally, the last question: are these types of actions, very limited Territorially and legally, aren't they referring to the reprivatization of ad Kalendas Graecas? By the way, how do you work on this reprivatization, with the government or possibly yourself?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u153	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u154	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you about the status of committee members. The bill says that the committee consists of eight members in the rank of Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. How is this proposal to write, this provision to the Government Departments Act and the Council of Ministers Act, which provides that if the government resigns, the Secretaries of State will also resign? In fact, this is also a question about the continuity of the committee's work. That's the first question. And second question, the scope This has already taken place in the debate today. Immunity, with a ratio legis of such a large extent of immunity granted to the chairman and the members of the committee. This immunity is extremely wide-ranging, in principle it can be said that the chairman and the members of the committee are not liable for violations of the rights of third parties.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u155	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u156	Minister, will the committee be able to make a decision before the court or other authority has ruled that it is entitled to forgery a document or commit a crime? This is very important. Because if the committee made that decision, and then it turned out in court that no crime had been committed, the repercussions would have been very significant. And second question. I mean, the knowledge of the members of the committee consisting of... I don't know what kind of education the Minister has. But my point is, the committee can consist of people who only have knowledge of real estate management. This is a very broad concept and it may turn out that most members will only have this knowledge and will not have a legal education. And here's the question. Because these committee members will be... will this knowledge they will have be sufficient to decide whether to suspend proceedings before an administrative authority or court, a general court or even the Supreme Court? So the committee has the right to suspend proceedings even before the Supreme Court. So there would have to be very high demands for committee members, and I don't see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u157	Thank you very much. Are there any more calls? No. Then I ask the Minister to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u158	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Senate! I'm answering Senator Rulewski's question. The first question is: will the decisions not delay the work involved... [[...actions.]] ...actions. I mean, no, they're not gonna delay the procedure. On the contrary. I mean, the path we choose for this committee is the fastest one known in Polish law. Activities and criminal and civil in front of common courts as if they were... Recognition, i.e. the exhaustion of the whole procedure in these areas, is much longer than what we propose. That's why we don't think so. Wouldn't the committee limit the sale of real estate in Warsaw? I mean, Mr. Senator, the committee has the right to stop trading in property to some extent, but I think that's the advantage of it. If the committee finds that a person in breach of the law has owned the property in question and therefore, for example. the committee will initiate administrative proceedings, will want to sell it quickly, then the committee will have the right to stop such sales, of course, until the case is heard and heard by all parties. Did... I think that's a more rhetorical question. I don't know if I can answer them. I mean, why doesn't Professor Grabowska offer other solutions such as interning people? Here's what I'm gonna say: I'm open to another solution. Here you go, point them out. If there are any better solutions to this problem, go ahead. But we don't know them. If the senator has a solution, go ahead. Because I think the big reprivatization bill that the senator was talking about in the next question, absolutely the problem that we're talking about, doesn't solve. I mean, how does a large reprivatization bill solve these problems, the old ones that have grown here, for such a large group of people in Warsaw? This, of course, is a separate problem. The Minister of Justice here is not a leading authority at all in matters relating to the regulation of ownership or the status of real estate in Warsaw. It's the responsibility of another department. And I believe that I am convinced that none, even extensive, law, so-called. A big reprivatization bill doesn't solve the problems we're talking about here. Senator Rybicki asked about the status of the members of the committee, that is, the Secretaries of State, and about how we propose what we propose, about the law on departments and the possible resignation of the government, what happens then with the Secretaries of State. I would like to say that there is absolutely no such threat here, because the Secretary of State is spoken to by Mr. Minister of Politeness. It's not written anywhere. Just as it is said to former ministers, Minister. From the point of view of the Polish legal order, the Secretary of State is the highest official of the state and it does not have to be, so to speak, an element or construction of the government. Let me give you a few examples. Under the conditions of cohabitation, we have seen the Secretary of State at Parliament's meetings on several occasions, e.g. who was Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, who came from a political camp other than the government. Right? This is one example. The second example, from the Sejm Chancellery: the Secretary of State is the head of the Sejm Chancellery, who also does not resign with the resignation of the government. To look for examples further... The Director of the Office of the First President of the Supreme Court shall also be the Secretary of State. That's why this has nothing to do with... It is simply the Secretary of State who is the highest official of the state. This is how it was accepted in the Polish legal order. But politely, of course, the word "minister" is often used in Poland because usually the first Deputy Minister is also an official, who is the Secretary of State, and because there are relatively many of them. That's why it's said, Minister. But it does not follow, God forbid, from the law on guns, nor does it conflict with this law. Why are we introducing such a solution? Well, that's because we're trying to get the board members to be I know it's not a good word in the context of this committee. As close as possible to such independence that they feel that they have a high status to be... It is well known that if the members of the committee make decisions, it will be under great pressure that they will be subject to a lot of pressure. And we also want to respond to the next question about immunity, so that as far as possible the members of the committee can resist the pressure to be as close as possible to independence. On the other hand, we are talking about the element primus inter pares. Since we assumed that the chairman of the committee was Secretary of State, we wanted to make all the members of the committee feel equal. Because at an earlier stage in the legislative work there were such charges: if the chairman of the committee is Secretary of State and the whole committee is one body, what about the other members of the committee? That's why we thought it was a good point, even though it didn't come from our environment, and that we had to make the committee, the body, have a high status, since it would make such important decisions. The Commission will be the chief administrative body over which there is no one, the chief administrative body, which in the Polish country we have already created a lot. The members of the committee will be the highest officials of the state, over whom no one will have authority. Oh, now the ratio legis of a wide range of immunity. It is that the members of the committee, contrary to what we have said, do not have a wider scope of immunity than e.g. Members of Parliament or other persons with immunity because members of the verification committee will only have material immunity. They won't have the formal immunity that we parliamentarians enjoy, which is an immunity that kind of covers the whole person. They're gonna have immunity, which will only apply to work on the matter they're gonna be dealing with. That is why it is a narrower immunity than the scope of the immunities we discussed earlier. And why are we bringing him in? What is the ratio of legis of this immunity? The Ratio legis of this immunity is like I told you before. Namely, we want the members of the committee to feel independent so that they are not bullied, also by the authorities of the state, regardless of what government will be in Poland next year or in two years, and if this committee continues to work. The point is to have a committee member, for example. He didn't feel any pressure from the D.A.'s office or any other authority to feel independent by making such complicated and so difficult decisions. Senator Florek asked for decisions... one second. I'm sorry, I wrote it down so that... [[It was about the decisions taken before the crime was decided.]] Oh, I remember now. The point was whether the committee would take decisions before the court decided to commit the crime. Yes? Of course I do. The Commission will exercise powers which are already known in the Code of Administrative Procedure, so here the scope of competence will not be wider than that of the current legal order. As long as my memory's correct, it's an art. 145 of the Code of Administrative Procedure: If: 1. the evidence on which the facts relevant to the case were established has proved false; 2. the decision was taken as a result of a crime, etc., etc. Such conditions already exist today in the Code of Administrative Procedure and the committee will only duplicate them... i.e. will duplicate the possibility of using these records. [[There's a retrial...]] Yes. [[...but it doesn't seem like a decision...]] About... [[Oh, no, there's a decision...]] That's it. The senator's next question concerned the education of the members of the committee. Wouldn't the education of committee members be too low when it comes to decisions they're going to make? I don't think so. Why? Because as if the whole philosophy, such an axiology of the formation of a committee, the ratio legis of the existence of a committee is such that the committee takes over to some extent the powers which today has an organ, a unit of local government, in this case he is the president of Warsaw's capital city. The president of the capital city of Warsaw can use and could still exercise the powers he has today under the C.P.A., to resume the proceedings if there were such premises as I am talking about, but he did not use it. And it's hard to expect him to be a judge on his own case. Therefore, we are transferring these competences, which may be used by the president of the capital city of Warsaw, to the central administration. Since we assume that this central administration will be able to make such decisions as may be made today by local government officials, presidents, mayors and mayors in different places, I apologize, but note that we do not apply such educational criteria to presidents, mayors or mayors. This is exactly the same status, which is why I think this argument is missing. And I think that's all the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u159	Thank you very much. [[If you don't mind my asking...]] Another tour. Senator Zdrojewska. [[I'd like to get back to my question. May I?]] Okay, okay. Now Senator Zdrojewska, then Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you about... Maybe I'll quote an article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Six, because I'd like to ask you your opinion on this. In the mouth. 6 says: "Members of the Commission in the exercise of their duties within the Commission shall be independent and shall not be subject to the service of the Minister of Justice.' I'd like to ask your opinion on this. What about the president? Is he independent, or are only members independent? I remind you that the members are appointed by the Sejm, and in turn the chairman of the committee is appointed by the Prime Minister at the request of the Minister of Justice, so he is probably already dependent on the Minister of Justice at the outset. This is my first question, but the members of the committee should also be independent, so I would like you to explain to us exactly what these State Secretarys of the Ministry of Justice will be like. Whether these people will have their offices, work rooms, desks, laptops, computers, phones, business cars, secretaries, etc., etc.? We're asking for an answer. And who's gonna assign all this to them? Will this be optional, or will this be specified in a special regulation? Because if the Minister of Justice doesn't assign a desk to someone uncomfortable, it turns out that independence is completely fictional. After all, we are all already aware that this independence is fictional, precisely because of the appointment of the head of this committee by the Minister of Justice and because of the social commission And that's the absolute kuriozum. Which is supposed to be an important consultative body... As we know, this whole case was born out of outrage to citizens, from a social protest, and it turns out that this committee of 9 people also appoints and dismisses the Minister of Justice in agreement with the Minister of Home Affairs, so there is no question of any independence here. The Minister of Justice has here. Complete freedom, and it's up to him to decide who's gonna sit on this committee. So these two issues about... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick: What's the question?]] Please? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick: What's the question? Because I won't know how to answer the senator.]] Firstly, I would like you to refer to the independence of the President, who is appointed directly by the Minister and not by the Sejm. Secondly, I ask you to describe exactly how these State Secretarys will function in the Ministry of Justice. Who's gonna assign them tools? Will they have cars, and where will they work? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: What about the committee? I didn't understand the committee question.]] It is about the committee, its chairman and its members. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Jak: I know, but you mentioned the social commission. I didn't understand that question.]] As far as the social committee is concerned, explain why you decided that the members of the committee should be elected by the Minister of Justice. That means complete freedom in this matter. If he'd called them, for example. The Seym, it would look completely different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u161	Thank you. Senator Rybicki would like to ask you a question. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u162	Yes. I am returning to the issue of immunity because the Minister said that the scope of parliamentary immunity is greater than that of the members of the committee, and I have the legal opinion of the Senate Legislative Office and I will quote one sentence: "It should be noted that it has one sentence: That is to say, the greater scope of immunity, for example, from the immunity of parliamentarians, in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 the Constitution of a Member or a Senator may be held liable (with the permission of the Sejm) in the event of a breach of the rights of third parties, such an option does not exist with regard to the President and the Members of the Commission. This is a matter of major importance, which is why I allowed myself to ad vocem.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Commission! Minister! I do not deny the absolute sense and necessity of this law, but I would like it to have teeth so that it cannot be cared for so that it does not have gaps or understatements. And therefore three groups of questions. The first group concerns Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4). It's about a decision that... or actually the decisions that the committee makes. The point is that the committee does not make decisions in cases where there are irreversible effects, but states that the original decision was issued in breach of the law, indicates the circumstances on the basis of which... etc. Well, the first question is about these irreversible effects. In the vocabulary these effects are well defined, but it is said that we are talking about irreversible effects if the buyer acted in bad faith. That would mean it's an organ, a committee, that's gonna have to prove bad faith. Well, if that's what the committee says, it's got to prove it. Is it gonna be easy, or is it even gonna be feasible? Isn't that going to be a gateway to properly obstructing the possibility of repealing decisions or the decision to refer the case to be re-examined? Wouldn't it be better to say that the suspect buyer must prove that he acted in good faith, the burden of proof, to be passed on to those who might possibly benefit from it? That's the first line. The second concerns the effects of such a decision. We're moving on to art. 35. There's a matter of statute of limitations. Well, the claims expire 30 years after the decision And here's the pointing from point 2 and point 3 of paragraph 3. Article 1 29 became final. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The fact that the decision is not issued then is merely a statement, it is not known in which manner the decision or order is issued or in which case the decision is referred to. But please note that this means that normal limitation times apply here. So if we consider that the reprivatisation decision was illegal, point 2, or another authority will consider it illegal as a result of ours. - Yeah, that's what I call it. The reminders, this is where we have 30 years of statute of limitations. And if someone was smart, I mean. a decision has been made in his favor, and he has disposed of this property, and we have a normal limitation period, not 30 years old, which is in a way we promote such a person. Because in art. 35 We have no reference to the situation with Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4). And the last point of this point, namely Article. 39. He talks about the effects of the committee's civil law decisions and clearly states: the final decision referred to in Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (2) and the decision referred to in Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 3 etc. shall give rise to the resumption of civil proceedings. So if the committee's decision states that the original decision was flawed... or that the decision of another authority was caused by the urgency of the committee or by the transmission that the original decision was defective... Then we can resume civil proceedings. And if the decision was flawed, but there are irreparable legal effects, then we cannot demand from him who has benefited from this original decision... We cannot resume civil proceedings against him, that is, in Art. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 there is no reference to the decision, but to the statement in point 4 of Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u166	I'd just like to tell you, but I'm gonna do it in the form of a question... Do you know that the comparison made by you of the Secretary of State to the head of the Sejm and Senate Chancellery is inconclusive because it is the Marshal of the Sejm and the Marshal of the Senate who are calling... These are people of the rank of minister, not secretary. They don't leave with the government because the way they're called is completely different.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u167	Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal. With all due respect, sir. What difference does it make when it comes to my answer? Senator Rybicki asked if, in view of the fact that the members of this committee would be Secretary of State, if the government were dismissed, they would all be dismissed. I said it wasn't because there are state secretaries who aren't dismissed. What the honourable marshal has presented is proof of the thesis I have presented. [[They're not canceling, they're not leaving...]] Because the Secretary of State you're calling is not going to resign as a result of the government's resignation. [[They're not leaving with the government, they're leaving with the marshal if the marshal makes that decision.]] So I was telling the truth. [[Voice from the room: He's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u168	Are there any more requests for questioning? Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u169	Minister, I will return to the question of the necessary knowledge in the field of real estate management. Why was this legal education so important to me? Because in the article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 We have such a provision that the committee shall notify the authority or court of the initiation of an exploratory procedure. The proceedings before the authority or court are suspended, so this is a very important role for the committee. But my question is different. Minister, is it because of the appeal procedure that he is now? You already said about how complicated he is: first the examination by the same committee, probably in the same composition, because there are few members of the committee, then by the provincial administrative court, the Supreme Administrative Court, and then maybe by the criminal courts, civil courts... Minister, do you think that by the end of this parliamentary term, we will be able to finish just one thing? Will any decision taken by this committee be final? 'Cause I'm afraid that dragging... that right now this mode is gonna extend, not shorten, those things that are going on. I'm afraid that's gonna... It is particularly important to address this problem in Warsaw, but, Minister, I also appeal to think about the issue of reprivatization in relation to the whole country, because the same problems are in Krakow, in Poznań and in many other cities. I understand that this is going to be an example in the future... but it's a waste of time, because every month, every year, it's a huge loss, and that's why the question is: will we be able to end one case of this committee's affairs by the end of this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u170	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u171	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Maybe I'll start at the back if the High Senate says so. Will we be able to finish just one thing in this term of office? I am convinced that this will happen for the very reasons I mentioned earlier. By the way, I will also answer the question of whether this committee is making a mess that will make these proceedings that are taking place today longer. No, because these proceedings, which we are talking about, the most controversial ones, are currently only on the criminal path, i.e. the body, which is the president of the capital city of Warsaw, does not exercise its powers to resume these proceedings. Therefore, if we leave it as it is today, not to adopt this law, to leave it only and only on the criminal path, we would have to wait until the end of the criminal proceedings, which in Poland lasts the longest, which can last for many years. Only later would the prosecutor apply to resume administrative proceedings. In this situation, administrative proceedings would be conducted after the end of the criminal proceedings, which together would last more than 10 years, maybe, about 10 years, it already depends on the case. Therefore, on the contrary, the fact that we are separating these paths will result in a faster investigation into justice. As I said, if the committee decides to initiate the procedure in question, it will have administrative deadlines, i.e. 30 days to be examined. Right? Then there is a decision and a possible appeal against that decision. The administrative courts, as I said, need an average of six months to decide, and, assuming the entire path is exhausted, there's still NSA. So we're gonna be able to fit in peacefully in this term of office, assuming we use the entire appeal path, at least in the case of the first decisions that the committee will make. That's why I have no fear. Senator Czerwiński asked who the burden of proof should be based on, including the time of the proceedings. We are convinced that these solutions we are proposing are the best, because for us it is very important This is also in response to further questions. • that the decisions which the committee will take remain in higher instances if there are appeals. Therefore, we rely as much as possible on the current legal order, i.e. on the code of administrative and other derivatives. We are convinced that if we remain in this legal order, it gives us the best chance that the decisions that the review committee will make will not be in vain. That is why we are convinced of this solution. Although I admit, Senator, we might be able to find solutions that will give the committee an even greater advantage that will allow us to act more effectively. However, we want to remain in the legal order in force. Senator Rybicki's question was about immunity. We're back here. The opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, of course, I know, but the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office mixes formal immunity with material immunity. Yes, Parliament may waive formal immunity, but it cannot waive material immunity, and the members of this committee will only have material immunity. It is not possible to introduce an additional route for parliamentarians to collect formal immunity because the members of the committee will not have formal immunity. That's the reason. Senator Zdrojewska asked about the independence of the members of the committee, about the location of... It looks like this. The independence of committee members is governed by this law, i.e. Article. 4, if my memory doesn't confuse me. One second. Yes, the members of the committee are independent and are not subject to official supervision It's written here. The Minister of Justice, but we support the amendment leading to the deletion of the Minister of Justice. The Sejm will appoint the Secretarys of State and they will not be subject to anyone, they will only be their decisions. As regards the privileges of acting as Secretary of State, this is also governed by the Act. The Act indicates that these State Secretarys will not benefit from the privileges characteristic of the Vice-Ministers, i.e. The cars your senator mentioned, etc., although we will guarantee them professional administrative services. The department that has already been established and which will serve this committee will consist of experienced administrative judges, prosecutors, referees, experienced lawyers, and therefore the service of this committee will be fully professional. There was another question: why does the Minister of Justice elect members of the Social Committee? I do not insist on who is to appoint members of the social commission. We believe that it is not too complicated to identify the most important social organisations that have the greatest merits in Warsaw in terms of the fight on the rights to reprivatization. I am in a position to guarantee that none of these organisations, no representative of these most important organisations, will be left out here. Thank you. [[I apologise, Minister, but there is a question of independence, including the independence of the chairman of the committee, who is appointed at the request of the Minister.]] She's the same. It's the same. [[But how, if he's appointed by the minister? How can it be later...]] It regulates the article. 4. He says that all the members of the committee... [[Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 6 speaks of the members of the committee, and in this act we have a clear distinction between the chairman and the members of the committee. The President shall be appointed differently and shall have other powers, etc. Pay attention to that. Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 6 talks about committee members, not presidents.]] Dear Senator, trust me on this. The Commission shall be treated as one body and in this case it shall certainly be all members of the committee. If there was a need for a distinction here, then we would have distinguished the chairman of the committee in this regard. As I say, it is obvious to us that all members of the committee are independent. [[But somewhere else you've distinguished him in such a way that...]] But it's in another article. And here, since we're talking about committee members, it's all about committee members. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u172	Is that all the answers, Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Jak: Yes.]] Another tour. You're starting Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u173	Hello, Minister. I have a question, actually, two questions. Art. 6 so quite simply refers to the material immunity which the chairman and the members of the committee are entitled to. The President, by virtue of this law, plays a key role under its provisions. Nothing can happen without his signature. He's, I'd say, above the law, he can't be forced to do anything. I have a question as to why this one civil servant should be treated in the context of the whole law. Well, I don't think anybody's questioning the point of this bill. Right? There is a lot of good intentions, but then, while trying to achieve the purpose of this law, we fight for justice, eliminate pathologies, make amends, punish the guilty. It didn't turn out that... so that it wasn't that if the committee turned up guilty... For example, one of the committee members can be corrupted They will be above the law and cannot be punished because they are covered by full material immunity. Isn't such a treatment of them, such an unprecedented application of this material immunity isn't the outpouring of a baby with a bath? And my second question. I'm gonna pull up a thread that came out here earlier about the Secretarys of State. This may be due to my ignorance, but as far as I'm concerned, the State Secretarys are resigning at the end of the government. All members of this committee From what I remember, that's their 9th State Secretary. They are appointed by the Sejm, not by the Prime Minister, which is the standard. Isn't that a mix-up between the legislative and executive powers? Is there a need? I understand there's a need for a committee... You're saying there's a need for such a committee. Then maybe it is not the Sejm who should appoint the members of this committee, but the Prime Minister, if it is to be the Secretarys of State? That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u174	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u175	Thank you very much. I would like to say, Minister, that it is not enough to write in the bill that someone is independent This independence must be guaranteed. In the Polish legal system we have such guarantees concerning e.g. how to appoint, related to independence in the workplace, etc. This is the first law in which this kind of... I'm surprised you don't understand. It is not that if we write that the President is independent, he will be independent despite being appointed at the request of the Minister of Justice. He will choose him from among his own etc. Where do you guarantee your independence? I'd like to... Ladies and gentlemen, what a paragraph is some doubt. All of them weren't completely explained. I would like to ask you about this immunity because, listening to you, I had the impression that... Perhaps I would agree that this committee must be given some security; Mrs Brzeska's case shows that there were various forces involved, which are probably capable of anything. So maybe it's better to give this committee some protection or something. However, this immunity is, sir, a complete misunderstanding, because it means that these people can make a bad decision completely unpunished. There's no situation where there's a specialist who has a hundred times more rights, like I said, than a senator, than a minister, than a prime minister, etc., etc. The Prime Minister or the President is at least accountable to the Court of State, and here there is absolutely no responsibility. I wish you wouldn't go through with it so easily, but he did. This immunity is a very serious matter, and it would be easy to give up. The bill would still not be good, it would still be hopeless, but not that bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, Minister, I have not received an answer on the preference of those who have achieved through misdecided property power, have disposed of this property, and now have a reduced time to claim and are in a sense protected when it comes to reopening the proceedings. Let's move on to the next group of questions. In fact, this law covers two proceedings. One question concerns a decision which is actually affected by the majority of this law. The second procedure concerns, in a sense, the satisfaction of those who have stayed, let us call it, by those who have been wrongly bought, by those who have been the owners of the tenement houses as a result of the wrong decisions, and by the clean-up of the tenements brought to the state, let us say, even unworthy. I mean, somehow they were tortured, through threats they were forced to leave the premises they were taking care of. Why am I talking about this second procedure? This second procedure here is relatively poorly described. It's just an art. 33, which tells who the authority belongs to, and art. 34. The Commission grants compensation, but the procedure, as I say, is virtually nothing. And here's the question: aren't you afraid that in some ways we're raising far-reaching expectations, and rightly so? The people who, through the bad politics of Warsaw's capital city during Mrs Gronkiewicz-Waltz's time, were simply raided from their premises? And will the committee be able to meet these expectations? Firstly, there is a matter of procedure, and secondly, there is not here, for example. the possibility of re-entering the tenants into the apartments they occupied, if possible, is only a question of compensation. Thirdly, these tenants may claim compensation within only 30 days of the decision of the committee becoming final. This is a very short period, especially since this decision of the committee can be published in the BIP. How does a tenant who has already, in quotes, said goodbye to his place occupied a few years ago find out about this? Will he have to follow the BIP of the commission to find out if there's any change in his case, about his old building, or will you inform him separately that he has such opportunities? Please note that this is going to be very difficult because the tenants in this property could have been distracted. There is a question of starting the procedure and therefore the last question is related to the beginning of the procedure. All options for initiating the procedure In this law, there are 3 of them concerning the start of the act on its own initiative. Why didn't you accept the possibility that this would be on request? In the case of certain decisions, the committee may not know of its own motion that they may have been taken in breach of the law. Why can't someone ask to examine the decision in a given case? It's all here, as I say, from the public office, three possibilities, in any case from the public office. Well, unless the D.A. informs, but it's a special case, it's an ongoing investigation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u178	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been very liberal about the rules. As we know, in the Rules of Procedure, the question may last a minute. You often repeat the same questions, even though the Minister answered them. The Minister is in the courtroom. And we often criticize some ministers for not coming. It is patiently responding, but we are beginning the second hour of questions, and I would remind you that at 4:00 p.m. we need to announce a recess due to the European Commissioner's speech, which will take place at 4:15 p.m., so please follow the rules. One minute for the question, and I ask you not to repeat the questions that have already been asked. The Minister's answer may not satisfy you in substance, but the Minister is trying to answer all the questions. You're welcome, Senator Jackowski. And then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwiński ran me through this question a little bit, but I would like the Minister to clarify what the victims of wild reprivatization in Warsaw, the phenomenon of the nature of organized crime that we have been dealing with in Warsaw, might expect? What can these people count on? Because we're talking about a crowd of probably about 40,000 people who, as a result of the decisions in question, have lost the opportunity to live... what will they have, from their point of view, the benefits of setting up a verification commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u180	Thank you very much. Are there any more calls? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u181	Minister, you're probably the author of this bill, or at least that's what the media thought. The question to you is, are you expected to be the head of this committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u182	Thank you very much. Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u183	Although there was no answer to my earlier question, I thought of such an additional question. Because in fact, what is the point of this law, this new question arises. Mr. Minister, art. 23 (3) provides that in order to... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: Excuse me, which one?]] Art. 23 (3). He states that at the order of the committee, a safeguard order, a complaint is due. And that's my question: wouldn't it be worth adding to whom this complaint is made? Because this bill generates a committee that acts in an absolutely extraordinary manner with regard to any other state authority. And I don't really know if it's this committee that's making a complaint or the Sejm that called this committee... Where do I file this complaint? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u184	Thank you very much. Are there any more calls? Senator Zdrojewska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u185	I'd ask the Minister to address you... Or maybe you can make an autocorrection. It is because the parties may be notified of the initiation of proceedings, decisions and other activities of the committee by means of a notice in the newsletter. Someone has mentioned this, but I would like to... and the delivery is deemed to have been made 14 days after the announcement in the newsletter, at the BIP of the Ministry of Justice. And now I'm asking... The parties are also victims. How do you think a soldier in the media, you're about 90 years old, is gonna sit by the computer and look at the BIP pages because the honorable committee won't send him a notice? Why don't you send people notices, like the courts do, etc., but you think the notice has come... [[Senator, it's been a minute.]] ...at the moment when...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u186	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Are there any more calls? No. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u187	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Senate, I will first answer the questions of Senator Terminski, one at a time. A material immunity, and a common crime... Well, there's no contradiction here. I mean, material immunity only protects where the matter is, that is, where a member of the committee will take decisions as part of the work of this committee. If he commits a common crime, he will absolutely respond like any other human being. It's pretty much the same as the lawyer's case. As he comes into the courtroom, in terms of doing his job, what he says, he has material immunity and the end, because it is his work; but already for the crime a common lawyer will be liable criminally. In this case, it's exactly the same. Another question. Who appoints the members of the committee: whether the Sejm or the Prime Minister, yes? Is that the question, Senator? [[Minister, that was the third question. Two...]] Then maybe I wrote it wrong. But I'm sure the senator asked where to file a complaint. A complaint shall be lodged with the committee. [[...for mixing. We have three divisions of power - executive, legislative and judicial power. Today's situation is that the Sejm appoints the Secretarys of State, and they should be appointed by the Prime Minister, because it is an element of executive power, not a legislative authority...]] Oh, I remember that. I'll answer that. [[...but the other way... the Secretary of State resigns with the outgoing government, and those don't resign. I think they're some kind of extraordinary secretary of state.]] Dear Senator, the problem is that I answered that question, but your senator wasn't there. The Secretary of State is not a member of the government. The Secretary of State is I'm gonna say it again, this time in a nutshell. The highest official of the state. The director of the office of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal was once Secretary of State, for example today. The Director of the Office of the First President of the Supreme Court shall be the Secretary of State. After all, it's obvious that when the government appeals, it doesn't appeal him either, nor does the head of the Sejm Chancellery. That is why there is absolutely no contradiction here. The fact that the Secretary of State is called a minister is a common term, not a rule of law. Senator Zdrojewska asked where this independence was recorded. I'm gonna say I feel a little helpless about this question, since it's in the article. 4 writes: "Members of the Commission in the exercise of their functions in the Commission shall be independent and shall not be subject to the service of the Minister of Justice.' I don't know how else to write it, so the senator's happy. Aren't you giving the committee some kind of protection instead of immunity? It might be appropriate to grant protection, especially if you know that organized criminal groups were involved in reprivatization, which could even afford murder. It might be appropriate, but there isn't one yet. This is already a question of further consideration by the members of the executive authority. The question of Marshal Borusewicz is whether it is expected that I will be the head of the committee... that will be decided by the Prime Minister. There's no such decision, and I don't know what it's gonna look like. Now the combined question of Senator Czerwinski and Senator Jackowski, i.e. The question is whether we will be able to meet all expectations associated with such great dissatisfaction in Warsaw of people who have been injured as a result of reprivatization. Mr. Senator, honestly, with my hand on your heart, I answer you that probably not everyone, but I assume that even if we can help some part, it will still be a big success. The very creation of this commission already causes miracles, i.e. Suddenly, some people appear in law enforcement agencies and admit to committing some acts themselves. Suddenly all the decisions It is enough that this draft law has entered the legislative phase The return of the tenements is stopped. Suddenly, miracles were created. It is also not without meaning to the Polish State that the Polish State will show that it does not agree to be kicked, that it has its strength and that if anyone wants to do so, then here is the Polish State, which cannot be humiliated. How will we help a large group of people? Honestly, I don't know. But we're gonna do everything we can to make this group as big as possible. There's a lot of complicated stuff going on today. Let us not hide that the Polish state is very much behind in this area, especially in cases where some group of smartass has already sold the property which it has unlawfully acquired; these will be the most difficult cases, but the committee has also provided for instruments which will allow if this apartment is not recovered, to obtain some part of the compensation. The Commission has instruments to help a large group of people. Probably not to everyone, but I think that if we can fix the lives of at least a few percent of the people in this group, even tens of thousands of people are being talked about, this bill makes absolutely sense. Consider, too, that the next benefit of this law is that this criminal group suddenly ceased its activities, began to hide, and started reporting on one another. This is another effect of this law, which we are showing you today. Why don't we just... There was a question of Senator Czerwiński about this brief time. In my view, in our view, this reduced time to move the decision that we have written down in this law will apply to all those who participated in the reprivatisation proceedings. However, this will depend on the decisions of the committee which it initiates and which it does not. And so, why don't we introduce the possibility for the residents who have been harmed to be brought back into the apartment? Because it's not always possible. If the situation is that a few million-dollar tenement house was acquired from an older woman for 50 PLN, but was already sold to a third party, and this third party bought this tenement in the so-called. good faith, may not even know that she comes from reprivatization Theoretically, of course, I'm talking about the theoretical model. I can't concentrate on the person who bought the building in good faith. I can concentrate, the state should concentrate on the person who earned wrongly on this transaction. That's why it's not physically possible to take someone into this building, but hopefully we'll be able to enforce financial responsibility from the person who made the giant money on this deal. Such instruments are given by this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u189	Thank you very much. I'd ask you a question. I asked if there was a bonus for the victims outside of the compensation instrument. Is it? And my second question. Do I understand correctly that these compensations will only concern the situation of those tenants who have been deprived of a roof over their head as a result of the acquisition by the new owner of the property in question by the verification committee? Because we have a second group of people, residents of Warsaw, who in their feelings were injured by persons recovering property in the process of reprivatization. There were no formal irregularities or there was a wild reprivatisation, it took place in normal proceedings, according to facts, on the basis of real documents, but the new owner or successor of the new owner, because the tenement was disposed of, e.g. He got rid of the tenants, elevating the rent in an unprecedented way, which forced them to de facto, even though they had a permanent report there, an unlimited contract, to leave the apartment. Because there's this other group, too. Is she going to be the beneficiary of this committee in any way now? If the Minister were to make that clear... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u190	Thank you. Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u191	Minister, maybe I'll ask you this question otherwise, because you've turned the cat's tail like that, you're trying to blur this reality... [[Talking in the O.R.]] First thing is immunity. I'm not talking about common crimes, I'm talking about actions and omissions that can hurt someone. Why should these people be above the law? It's not necessarily about corruption. You, in all my words, have drawn attention to the word 'corruption'... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: I said crime, Mr. Senator.]] Crimes, yes, common crimes, you used that phrase. I'm not talking about common crimes, I'm talking about actions and omissions that hurt someone. I draw your attention to the fact that even a lawyer in the courtroom, if he does harm to anyone, is liable, can be sued civilly. It's possible. My second question was to the Secretarys of State. Again, you're trying to blur the reality by referring to other constitutional bodies, the Supreme Board of Control, the Sejm, the Senate... It's obvious that those people over there might be, sitting down, Secretary of State, at least some of them... I ask: why should the Sejm appoint Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice? Not in the NIK, which is a constitutional body, but in the Ministry of Justice, which is part of the executive authority, not the legislative authority. Why should the Sejm do this, why not do it the way the Secretary of State normally calls? And the third question you didn't answer me: who are these complaints made to? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: Sorry...]] To whom is the complaint made by the article. 23? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: I replied to the committee. Mr. Senator, I've answered.]] You didn't answer. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick.]] I didn't hear you. I'm gonna ask you one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u192	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u193	I have two questions. Will the parties' representatives be admitted to the committee's work? That's the first question. And the other. Why will the members of the committee be state secretaries, not undersecretaries of state? As I understand it, it is meant to be Members. If so, it is justified, but if not, then the question is valid.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u194	Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'll start at the end. Dear Marshal, yes, in the intention of the authors of this bill, parliamentary clubs will decide who will be a member of the committee, and they will be able to appoint both a person who is not an MEP and a person who is an MEP. If he's an envoy, then by all means, as your marshal rightly pointed out... The Constitution says that it is allowed to combine legislative and executive values if someone is Secretary of State. I'm also looking towards the senator here. Terminian. Will the proxy of the party be allowed... Yes, of course it will be allowed. And another question from Senator Terminski, for immunity in the context of where committee members will make decisions... Dear Senator, please note that the final decision will also be the decision of the court, not only of the members of the committee. Their material immunity will only apply to decisions that they will make as part of the committee's work, not to other things. The same, I mean, similar immunity in the area I was talking about, they have lawyers. In so far as they appear in the Chamber and say, because this is part of their work, they are covered by their material immunity. And they can't be sued civilly for that. Why should the Sejm appoint the Secretarys of State, not the Prime Minister, if they're going to be in the Ministry of Justice... Mr. Senator, as I said before, Mr. Senator wasn't here. We support the amendment, which refers to the removal of the Ministry of Justice from this provision. These Secretarys of State are going to be the highest officials who aren't subject to anyone. And I think that's the answer to your question. Senator Jackowski asked whether the inhabitants who were subject to the process of so-called. cleaning the tenement, they will also be able to count on the help of the commission. Yeah, they'll be able to count on the help of this committee. Although the committee will have limited opportunities for taking cases in a month Each month, the committee will decide that it will initiate proceedings in several cases. So that she will not be able to deal with everything every month, but this will be taken into account, because in these cases what is important in the whole structure of the administrative procedure was violated if we wanted to talk about the axiological elements, i.e. the so-called. social interest. What do you think your people can count on? The Commission will have the right to decide on the return of the property. She'll have the right to make that decision, but only if someone hasn't bought this property in good faith. We know that in Warsaw, the so-called "sorry" is raging. intermediaries. The Commission will have the right to suspend the trading of such immovable property and return it if that property has been taken away and is owned by such an intermediary. If Senator Jackowski buys an apartment in Warsaw that may come from reprivatization and Senator Jackowski doesn't even know it, the committee cannot concentrate its actions on you, Senator, because you bought it in good faith. That's the foundation of civil law, which is why we're not getting into it. But the committee will be able to concentrate on the person who made an illegal profit. If it has been sold six times, the committee will focus on the actions of the first person who bought the right to manage this property, say, 50 PLN and then sold it. 20 million or so. Right? Because that's what happened as a reprivatization. And then, if we can't return the property, the committee will have the right to order the so-called. compensation that will be used for people who have lost something in this whole process. We can't give up this property because you have it, Senator. Of course, I'm speaking theoretically. But we will have the right to grant compensation to the people who have been harmed. I think that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u196	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Okay, but I asked earlier if there were any other questions. You're with us, exactly the Minister, playing cat and mouse. I ask if there are any more questions, no questions, the Minister answers, and there are questions again. We'll still be able to sit until midnight. If that's what you want, we can sit until midnight, if you want to sit this weekend, that's fine. Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u197	Well, I want to explain immediately, so there is no doubt that I am not the owner of any real estate in the capital city of Warsaw. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: Excuse me, Mr. Senator...]] [[The Minister knows better.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Secondly, I would like to ask: how much will this compensation be? Do we know more or less what it would look like, what the very structure of this compensation process would be? Oh, that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u198	Senator Terminski. For the tenth time, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u199	For the third time, Mr. Marshal. [[No, well, for the third time, it was half an hour ago.]] I have a question... Because it was in the discussion that it was the Minister who said he was in favour of an amendment that would exclude the commission from the supervision of the Ministry of Justice. And at this point, my question is, who exactly are these people going to answer to? [[From God and history.]] Because they're covered with a very broad immunity... And it actually looks like they're gonna answer to God and history. And the second question is a repetition of what... That's the third time I've asked you this: who do you want to file this complaint with? [[Mr. Senator, the point is, you keep saying the same question.]] But I still haven't gotten an answer. [[To the committee, Mr. Senator, to the committee.]] [[The Minister's answer may not satisfy you, but you cannot force the Minister to answer exactly as you wish.]] Excuse me, that's another way of saying that we're going to file a complaint against the committee's decision? [[Voice from the room: to the same committee.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Are there any more questions...]] I mean, I have a question: how does this relate to the duality of administrative proceedings? [[Come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u200	Are there any more questions? Does Senator Jackowski have another question? [[No.]] No? Are you sure?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u201	Then I have a question. Because Senator Marshal Borusewicz asked... Could the senator be a member of this verification committee? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u202	Do you have another question for Senator Terminski? [[I didn't ask because I know...]] [[I'd love to go into...]] No, I don't doubt it, I don't doubt it. [[If you call me, I can...]] But I'd like to put an end to... [[I was just asking that complaint. As I understand it, the members of the committee are not responsible to anybody. This is the conclusion of this discussion.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: No, Mr. Senator. I'll answer that right away.]] Thank you very much. Minister... Oh, and Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u203	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I am no longer going to beat the details, I have the most general question possible. It is because of what we are talking about here that these are not other behaviors or omissions, the actions of the present authorities of the capital city of Warsaw. What we are talking about here is just a certain reaction to the inability and sometimes intentional actions of these authorities. Minister, wouldn't it be easier to do that even more because these authorities have problems with other areas in the area of Warsaw's capital city? Instead of adopting the bill discussed here, simply introduce the commission board and put people who would, in quotes, undo these bad situations and also deal with the cleanup in the capital city of Warsaw? Maybe it's a rhetorical question, but I ask it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u204	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Jackowski? No? [[No.]] Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u205	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, as to the answer to Senator Jackowski's question about the amount of these compensations... I mean, that's what the committee's gonna decide, of course. But what will she consider? Well, she's gonna take into account estimated surgeries or expert opinions. And always the basis for assessing a given decision will be the decision issued by the president of the capital city of Warsaw, which, I assume, has always been economically justified in some way. And probably in most cases there are estimated surgeries. That's why we're going to operate on those materials that are already available. But, of course, the committee has the right to commission a new estimate of the value of the property if necessary. Who will the members of the committee be answering to? The members of the committee, I have already told you, Mr. Senator, are accountable to the Sejm. I mean, the Sejm has the right to revoke and appoint the members of the committee, of course, to the extent that they exercise their function concerning the work of this committee. How does the appeal to the committee, the appeal against the order, go to legal order? Well, that's what the Polish legal order is about when it comes to administrative proceedings. I mean, if the minister For example: Minister for Agriculture It issues an administrative decision, the first reference is made to the authority, that is to say, the minister, and then to the administrative court. And here it's exactly the same. There is no danger that a final decision, from which someone will be dissatisfied, will be issued by an organ illegally. No, such a decision will always be approved by an independent court, in this case administrative. Senator Czerwiński's last question about the board of directors is that it's not for me to judge.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u206	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u207	Mr. Marshal, I make a declaration that I will only speak once. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] Minister, during the debate, I asked the Senators of the rapporteurs and I was not given an answer. Maybe the Minister will know. Do you know a minister in a country in which a similar committee... Of course, I'm not talking about the problem of reprivatization, but about some other problem that had to be solved in a way that, so to speak, was executive and judicial. Is there any other country in which such a committee was set up? Do you know such a country? That's the first question. And the second is this: can you put a sign of equality between this commission and the property commission dealing with the return of the property stolen from churches and religious unions in Poland? It's about the committee that worked after 1990 and was working on the return of the assets that were looted by... [[...the communist authorities.]] ...the communist authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u208	Dear Senator, to answer your question, do I know another country in which... Well, there are various central administration bodies in every country, public administration. In fact, this committee is a central body of public administration. We in the Third Republic have appointed a number of central public administration bodies, which I try to explain at every stage of the legislative process. This committee is often accused of having jurisdiction, but we always ask the question of which powers. And it's always hard to tell. The Commission will only have the powers that today have the administrative authority, i.e. the president of the capital city of Warsaw. That's it. Therefore, trying to create the impression that this is an extraordinary solution is absolutely unjustified. Well, the reasons that allow the committee today to reopen proceedings or change decisions are mostly in the code of administrative procedure. We don't discover any America here, so to answer the senator's question... I would ask them the other way around: was there anything going on in any country in Europe that was happening in Warsaw? Was there such an organized criminal group in the capital of any other country in Europe reaching the state elite? And I'll tell you, I don't know this country. [[No, it wasn't at all...]] I don't know about that. [[There were no crimes at all.]] [[Well, the mob was.]] You mean you didn't think there were any crimes in Warsaw? [[No, in other European countries.]] This kind of activity... I want to tell you, Mr. Senator, if you could point me in the direction of a country in which the judges would appoint curators for 140-year-olds, you're welcome. I'm afraid you won't. The head of all lawyers was at the centre of what country was the beneficiary of the reprivatisation? I'm afraid you won't show such a country, not even in Africa. Forgive me for this answer, which is somewhat rhetorical, but I would not have to stand before you today and I would not have to do anything if the relevant authorities of the state could see the harm of these people in due time. Because we are here to serve citizens, and unfortunately some elites in Warsaw have forgotten this, in my opinion. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u209	Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: Thank you.]] If there's no more... Senator Blackbay. [[I'm still here, Mr. Marshal.]] No, Senator Blackbay's still here. Yes? [[Let Blackbay speak.]] [[Me too.]] [[No, come on.]] [[No, never mind. The Minister answered me.]] [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] Good. Thank you very much, Minister, for your patience. It took over an hour and a half. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is an extremely important act, very important, and not only because it is important what happened to the reprivatization in Warsaw on these issues described by the press, and that it undoubtedly requires action. But this law is important because it is a law that introduces precedent into Polish law. This precedent of the emergency committee can also be applied to other issues, since such a law is being introduced. But before I get to the point, it's a few quotes about another committee. This committee was, in fact, an out-of-court administrative decision-making body. Its specificity was that it combined in its hand all stages of criminal proceedings: preparatory, judicial, enforcement. And the next quote on the same committee: "There was no regulation on the fundamental issue of relations between the prosecution, the courts and the committee. The provision which imposed an obligation on the orchards and the prosecution to comply with the provisions of the committees and delegations on jurisdiction was very unclear and could have caused conflicts of competence. In addition, the imprecise definition of jurisdiction makes it difficult to assess the status of committees against judicial authorities. And the last quote: "It has been established" ..this committee.. In order to detect and prosecute crimes, its officers had the power of judicial and prosecutorial authorities to investigate and prosecute criminal offences under investigation. Such allegations also concern the law establishing this committee, which the Minister, the Ministry of Justice and the Government have decided to invoke. I'll quote a few other quotes. However, there is considerable doubt about the actual position of the committee, which, despite being referred to as the executive authority, has in fact competence typical of the judicial authority. And one more quote: "In terms of procedural regulation, the project should be accused of not being sufficiently defined. The rule of law definition is part of the principle of protecting the citizen's confidence in the State and the rights it creates under Article. 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. These first three quotations concern the Special Committee on Abuse and Economic Damage set up under the Decree of 16 November 1945. These are quotes from the work of Piotr Fedorczyk and Mirosław Szumiła. The next two quotations are from the evaluation of this law, on which we proceed, the evaluation of the Sejm Analysis Office, the legal opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office of 14 December 2016. Minister, this committee, which will be set up under this law, violates the fundamental constitutional principles: the separation of authorities and the mutual balance of these authorities, executive, parliamentary and judicial authorities. The committee is appointed by the Sejm and the members of this committee, apart from the chairman, are to be elected by the Sejm. They receive the powers of the committee of inquiry, the parliamentary committee of inquiry. They have the right to call, they have the right to question under the strict code of criminal proceedings, so the person has to appear, the witness has to tell the truth, etc. And at the same time it's... The Commission shall be seated as an administrative body. It is a committee, as an administration, for specific activities. At the same time, this administrative authority may apply to the courts, but not only to the courts, because it can decide on the record in the eternal books. It can introduce reservations, i.e. it receives judicial powers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a hybrid. To put it nicely, I don't want to use other terms, it's a legislative monster: an administration that has judicial and investigative powers, and at the same time the powers of the Sejm Committee of Inquiry. But it's not just that. If anyone asks, what is the competence of the investigating authority?... Well, simple. He may request a search, a search, in common language, and a security of evidence. It's just a legislative monster. The members of the committee will not be responsible for their decisions, even if they take them in bad faith or even if they commit a crime, provided that this concerns their role in the committee because they receive immunity, immunity for life. There are no limits to this immunity. After leaving the committee, this immunity will also be granted to them and the rule does not introduce any possibility of repealing this immunity. This immunity is even stronger than the immunity of judges, parliamentarians, because in this case, in these groups, it is possible to waive immunity. In addition, the position of president. In fact, the chairman can do anything. It's the president who's gonna decide. He's gonna be able to apply for a search of the D.A. It will be the chairman who will decide to keep the committee's meeting secret. It's the president who's gonna make the arrangements. And it will be the President who will have two votes, and in the vote on the decisions of the committee, which will fall by an ordinary majority. In a situation of balance, the President will have two votes. Composition of this committee: 1 chairman, 8 members of the committee to be appointed by the Sejm. That's how I'm gonna feel about how I'm gonna feel about how I'm gonna feel, how strong I'm gonna be. Five of the PiS, four of the opposition parties, of the opposition clubs. It's just clear. [[Mr. Marshal, 11 minutes.]] One last thing. The parties and witnesses may be summoned... they must come from anywhere in the world, from Israel, Australia, etc. If they don't, they'll be fined high. In addition, the parties need not be notified in the same way as in other cases of administrative proceedings whether the court; information in the newsletter is sufficient and within 14 days the parties are deemed to have been notified. I predict that many people will find out after all that they have become parties. Or maybe they'll find out when the D.A.'s office, at the president's request, will order a search. I'm making a few amendments that in this terrible scandalous bill can, I think, make a difference, although I don't have... I know you're going to pass this bill, but this bill, I repeat, is unconstitutional. She's unconstitutional. And it's clear, it's clearly, it's visible. It infringes the Article. 10 Constitution on the division of power, Art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 on judicial justice and a few more. I'm talking about the State of the Ministry of Justice being aware of that. And in order for the Minister to be aware, too, because just because he's signing up for life's immunity doesn't mean In view of the public awareness of the unconstitutionality of the law, He said he wouldn't be held responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u211	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The system transformation, which started in Poland in 1989, gave the former owners and their heirs the hope that problems regarding the return of lost ownership and reprivatization settlements would be solved. In order to redress the victims and reconcile the various conflicting interests of the Senate of the Republic of Poland in 1990, and then the Sejm, especially during the second term, in which 8 projects were reported, began work on the reprivatization law. Only once in 2001, Parliament completed work on this law, but President Kwasniewski vetoed it. It was mostly about... The problem was about budget costs, because it was supposed to be 50%. reimbursement, so it was a big burden for the budget. That was the reason. At that time, only the problem of Bużański's property was legally resolved by adopting the law in 2003. It was about property that was left beyond our current borders. Compensation limited to 15% values. I can tell you from experience, as far as I'm concerned, I've made a lot of decisions. The procedure is very laborious and lasts many, many years. Investigation, determination of the state, as it will be in this law, from a given day, a given year, reaching documents It's all going on, and it's taking a long time. To sum up, I will say that Poland as the only country from the former block of socialist states does not have a reprivatization bill until today. Owners of lost property and heirs acquire their rights under the Code of Administrative Procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure. The Senate of the 8th term of office has launched a legislative initiative called the Warsaw Land Act or a small reprivatisation law. The Senators of the Civic Platform have prepared a bill on amending the Real Estate Management Act and the Family and Care Code Act. The Senate adopted a resolution and filed a bill with the Sejm, and the Sejm passed this law on 25 June 2015. President Bronisław Komorowski asked the Constitutional Tribunal to examine the compatibility of certain provisions with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland under preventive control. It was a decision to refuse and discontinue proceedings when the parties could not be identified. In July 2016, the Constitutional Tribunal issued a judgment and concluded that the provisions were in accordance with the Constitution. President Andrzej Duda signed a law in August 2016. The current parliament and the government, instead of trying to solve the problem comprehensively, I will tell you colloquially, put us, the senators, into passing a law on specific rules for removing the legal consequences of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. This law is one big legal shredder, confusion with the confusion of various kinds of competences, a new central super-organ, which we will not find in the Constitution, a complex appeal procedure and for many, many years. 9 people in the committee are to assess the correctness of many complex cases and documents, counted in hundreds and thousands, and make appropriate decisions. The work of the committee will have to take at least several decades, if not more. And I say this based on my experience, because sometimes I searched for documents, sometimes I examined documents in eternal books. It's gonna take a long, long time. About the constitution... Constitution of the Republic of Poland, Chapter VIII, Courts and tribunals, Art. 175. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1: The Supreme Court, common courts, administrative courts and military courts in the Republic of Poland. And lips. 2: A special court or ad hoc court may be established only for the time of war. Law and Justice is in a constant state of war with all who do not think as they do. You've been subjecting yourselves to the Constitutional Court, the prosecution's office, and now you want to influence the functioning of the courts. Law and Justice doesn't trust anyone. Instead of addressing the problem of reprivatization across the country The lack of a reprivatization bill is the source of all problems and misfortunes of many tenants, not only in Warsaw, but also in Cracow, Poznan, many other cities I could mention here. You want to break the constitution again and create some non-constitutional creation, exclusively for Warsaw. It's easy to read why: because local elections are coming up. The political theatre, which will be organised and played by the PiS, has only a political purpose. This will be a great material for law students for many years. To us senators, if we accept this bill, it will only remain a shame that we have laid our hands on the creation of such a law. I will quote one passage from the opinion we received from the Senate Legislative Office on 16 February 2017. The opinion commissioned by the Sejm Analysis Office stated, inter alia, that the draft law in many places is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution and that the entry into force of the draft could pose a significant threat to the standards of justice applicable to the democratic rule of law and to the constitutional rights and freedoms of the individual. Critical opinions were also presented by the Supreme Court, the National Court of Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Treasury, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. But of course, as you senators always say, these are only opinions, and because these are opinions, they may not be taken into account. Dear Senators, form, scope of authority of the committee, possibility of issuing provisions and various kinds of decisions, including: imposing an obligation to refund the equivalent of the wrong benefit, granting compensation for the damage suffered, the possibility, by way of proceedings, of ordering an entry in an eternal book... In addition, the composition of the committee, i.e. the members of the committee in the rank of Secretary of State, the responsibility of the members of the committee, as we have pointed out here, only before God and history, as well as the order of dealing with matters... These are just some comments, issues that will lead to disputes of competence that will not be resolved. It's a huge legal rubble. Therefore, I do not make any amendments because I believe that the amendments make no sense at all. I will, of course, file a motion that I have prepared to reject the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that by the end of this term, the committee will not conclude any proceedings with a final decision. I know, based on my many years of experience, that this is unrealistic and impossible. The Commission will only start a few cases Noisy in Warsaw And that will be the end of the committee's proceedings, because in the meantime... Well, unless the Law and Justice rule until the end of the world and even longer, then yes... But this committee is right to be. Just for the rest of this term, because I'm sure she won't last much longer. But the loss is different. The point is, the committee is gonna block some important stuff right now. Indeed, many people who had to move out of the tenements that had been recovered have suffered great harm to many who had been raised their rent. These are real problems that should be solved. The Commission will not solve any of these problems. That's not enough, we're just gonna waste time, because we're gonna block the possibility of introducing good solutions that aren't gonna happen. That's why I'm filing a motion to reject this bill, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. High Izbo, as previously announced, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax and the Act on the Criminal Tax Code and consider it as item seven of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. According to previous announcements, I am required to announce a 15-minute technical recess by 4:15 p.m. Once the session is resumed, we will proceed with the examination of the eleventh point: the European Commission's work programme for 2017. I would like to remind you that under this item we will be welcoming the Commissioner for Regional Policy in the European Commission, Mrs Corina Creţu. After considering the eleventh point, we will return to the second point. Thank you very much. Dismissed until 4:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 58 to 16 minutes 19]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u214	High Senate, resume your session. We begin to consider item 11 of the agenda: the European Commission's work programme for 2017. I would very much like to welcome Mrs Corina Creţu, Commissioner for Regional Policy, along with the delegation, to the Senate. Commissioner, we welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] I also welcome the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Konrad Szymański. Welcome, Minister. [[Applause]] I would also like to welcome Mr Mark Truth, the Director of the Representation of the European Commission in Poland, together with the other employees of this institution. [[Applause]] The text of the Government's position on the European Commission's work programme is contained in print No 424. The Senate Marshal sent the programme together with the Government's position on this matter to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The Commission took note of these documents at its meeting on 21 February 2017 and informed the Marshal of the Senate. Please take the floor of the Commissioner for Regional Policy, Mrs Corina Creţu, and present the European Commission's work programme for 2017. Commissioner, we invite you very cordially here, to the speaker, and we ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u215	Dear Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning! I'm very happy to be here today in the Senate. I, too, have been a senator from 2004 to 2006, the youngest senator in Romania, and then I have been in the European Parliament for 8 years and have been working as a Commissioner for Regional Policy for 2 years. So that I have spent 10 years in the national parliament and in the European Parliament, so I do not have to stress how well I know and appreciate the work of the representatives of society who have been elected by society. I think it is very important to have such a continuous dialogue. In Parliament, I have always criticised the Commission, criticized that we have insufficient contact with representatives of citizens, so now wherever I go, I always try to meet members of parliaments, national parliaments. I think this is a very important matter. I would like to thank you very much for your invitation. It is an honor for me to meet with you. Since the beginning of our mandate launched in November 2014, we have worked very closely with national parliaments because this is a question of democracy. The same applies to Poland because Poland is the first beneficiary of our regional policy. That's why I think it's very important that we meet. Governments, Europeans and citizens' representatives. I would like to say to you that this is not only a question of democracy, but also a question of subsidiarity, the question of finding the best way to serve our citizens, everyone in their position. Each of us knows that the European Union is based on a very simple agreement: we are all stronger when we work together, because it makes it easier for us to achieve our goals. I think this is very important, especially in these days, when we observe certain problems, certain tensions within Europe. I think that together is a key word nowadays. As I have already said, the Commission is strengthening relations with national parliaments. We have a committee programme in this area and we assume that your actions can really change a lot. There are many challenges facing Member States, all regions. And I think we'll be stronger working together. As far as my experience is concerned, as you know, I am responsible for cohesion policy. And today we are also talking about Visegrad Group 4 plus 4, 8 ministers. The debate also concerns the Committee of the Regions. We are thinking about how we can actually implement this principle of multi-layered governance, because today we work together: the Commission, ministers, representatives of regions, mayors, us, and the state, as representatives of national parliaments. I think this is all a very important signal and I thank Poland very much for organizing such a meeting. As far as our achievements in the framework of the development of cohesion policy are concerned, I do not think I need to tell you about it here, because I do not think that there is such a region in Europe... I don't think there is such a region in Poland or anywhere in Europe where we simply do not see these tangible benefits in the lives of citizens. Thousands of hospitals, schools, railways, roads... I have also visited regions in a worse situation. I was in Kielce and in Podkarpacie. And it seems to me that this initiative implemented by Poland for regions which are in a worse situation is particularly important and Poland is a leading example for the European Union. I also think that Poland should be such a model, it should be an example to follow, because it is a great beneficiary of cohesion policy. I would also like to say to you what you know, namely that we are working now... we really started the debate on the White Paper that President Juncker presented in the European Parliament yesterday. This is just the beginning of the debate, we have five scenarios. But we are faced with criticism of why the Commission has not clearly set the course for the European Union. I think it would be an arrogance on the part of the Commission if it presented the matter in this way. President Juncker wanted to show us different opportunities, and I think that for us, the new Member States that joined the Union after 1989, this is a unique opportunity, because we can also shape Europe's future, speak about it and shape this future. In my opinion, these five cooperation scenarios are a key instrument for the future of Europe. Without reaching a common position in this situation, it will be very difficult for us. There are many divisions among us. On migration issues, the Workers' Directive, the labour market But we don't need these divisions. What do we have to do about it? We must consider this White Paper as a starting point for reflection on what we have achieved in the last 25 years and how many elements we have achieved, we have taken for granted. It seems to me that it is extremely important that every Member State, every national Parliament, every region is very proactively involved in this and provide ideas. This is the best way to make progress in the implementation of cohesion policy after 2020 and for the future of Europe. You know this is the beginning of the debate. When we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome, it will be a great opportunity to continue the discussion. This is, in any case, the time when we should consider what action the 27 Member States of the European Union are going to take in the future, as we are faced with the decision of the British people. We respect her, but we must now remain united, thinking about the actions to be taken on this issue in the future. Thank you very much. I wouldn't want to take up too much time. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. I'm glad to see you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u216	Thank you very much, Commissioner. And now the questions. Would any of you senators like to ask the Commissioner a question? Senator, Professor Sewerinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u217	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for this speech, it was extremely informative. But in connection with this speech, I would like to ask you a question. You represent a very strong body of the European Union, the European Commission, which has great potential to influence decisions taken in the European Parliament, etc. We as the Chamber of the Polish Parliament would like to cooperate actively with the European Commission and with other EU institutions. We agree with the idea that there should be much more contacts between national parliaments and the institutions of the European Union. I therefore have the following question: on the basis of your experience with the European Commission, do you think that national parliaments should be given more opportunity to express their views and positions on key decisions that are being prepared and adopted by the European Union institutions? Many of us, Polish parliamentarians, are deeply convinced that the first step, which was the Lisbon Treaty, was largely insufficient, and we would like to have much more cooperation opportunities. You have probably heard criticism that there is too little democracy in the European Union system, there is not enough democracy, so we would like to say that it would be right to increase the competence of national parliaments and strengthen the overall position of the European Union. But I'd like your opinion on that. Would you be so kind as to say whether this is the right way of thinking or not? Perhaps you could tell us more about this, including your visits to other parliaments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u218	Thank you very much, Senator, for asking the question. And I ask the Commissioner to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u219	As I said at the beginning of my speech, I really think the voice of parliamentarians from national parliaments is very important. You are right to say that your voice is not often enough or strongly enough heard in the European Union. I remember well from my time of work as a member of the European Parliament the moment when an agreement was reached between the European Parliament and national parliaments, but I think that only two meetings of parliamentary committees, from time to time, are not enough. So I agree with you that this is a question of democracy Like I said. It is now up to the individual Commissioners to what extent they want to engage in the communication process. In my opinion, this issue should be much more institutionalised. I am not saying that we would like to change the Treaty, but this dialogue with national parliaments needs to be improved. In addition, it is very important for the Commissioner to work with committees, with specialised committees in national parliaments. I happen to be in regional politics, and I know that people who are there all the time know better what works and what doesn't. I am responsible for 300 regions, each of which is unique, and the unique feature of our policy is the individual approach that we use to work with these regions in order to strengthen their potential, to support their development. I believe that representatives of Parliament should be met not only during plenary meetings but also during the work of specialised committees. And that's what I do. I also think that we should find ways to work not only with national parliaments, because I know that there is a lot of possible cooperation framework in this area: the OSCE, NATO, parliamentary assemblies, etc. But also in the decision-making process. To be honest, I have seen the previous President of the European Parliament, Mr Schulz, fight to strengthen the position of the European Parliament and the national parliaments. In my opinion, this fight should continue so that in the European Union the voice of the state as citizens is stronger and clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u220	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for answering Senator Michael Sewerynski's question. Senator Richard Majer would like to ask you a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u221	Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, Commissioner, I am very pleased to see you in our Senate. Let me refer to the threads you have presented in the discussion. However, I have a brief question about the relationship between the European Parliament and Commissioners with national parliaments. I welcome the Commissioner's declaration that you would like to listen more to national parliaments in Brussels. We would like to be heard more effectively as members of these parliaments. 'Cause it's often that we take the floor when it comes to fundamentals, but that's the voice. That's how I feel. In a vacuum. In order not to be literal, I will only talk about the Posted Workers Directive. We in the Senate took a stand on this. A similar position was taken by many countries, including Romania and... I will remind you of the conversation I had in Bratislava with Ana Birchall, then the head of the European Union committee in the Romanian parliament. Her opinion was also similar: that the directive, which enters the area of posted workers, is too restrictive, falls too far into the competence of states, national. I therefore have this point: I would like to hear the Commissioner's position on this issue as Commissioner for Regional Affairs. Will this directive, which Brussels is still working on, contribute to equalising national opportunities, or will it even block a large part of the European Union's countries and build another division between our countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. Commissioner, you have your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u223	First of all... The first remark is more or less related to the first question. I think the European Commission has already shown its commitment to building partnerships with national parliaments. We are at your disposal, we are ready to visit national parliaments to engage in a dialogue on Commission initiatives and proposals. You know very well that, as I said at the outset, the principle of subsidiarity is at the heart of the democratic process of the European Union and national parliaments play a key role here. So we do indeed have partnership, consultation and parliamentary control. You mentioned the Posting of Workers Directive. I think that this is a matter that divides the European Union, and I see that this is a matter that creates divisions. There are Member States that want their citizens to have the right to work in other Member States so that they can choose which country they will work and earn. And the other countries... Today we live in different times than 10 years ago when citizens were free to go to other Member States. Now the Member States have become much more selfish. We must deal with this and reach a common agreement on the posting of workers. We cannot say that Eastern European citizens will steal jobs in Western European countries. The right to work throughout Europe cannot be denied to Eastern European citizens. I sincerely hope that Mrs Marianne Thyssen, who is currently dealing with the Posting of Workers Directive, will be able to reconcile the interests of the Eastern and Western countries diplomatically. As I said, I personally am very concerned about these divisions, and I believe that this is a very important issue. I know Romania's position on this issue, but, as I said, I am now European Commissioner European Commissioner from Romania. However, I share your position because I know what happened after 1989, and I know what opportunities the European Union has offered us. I think we're at a similar age: we're old enough to remember old times, but we're young enough to see the future and to think for the first time that the next generation will have a worse life than we are. I've never thought I'd live to see that time in the last 25 years. It seems to me that we should calm down and work together to reach an agreement with the old and new Member States of the European Union so that we can get out of this stronger and united. We should reach agreement on the most sensitive issues. In my opinion, migration, the labour market, the question of posting workers are currently the most sensitive issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u224	Thank you very much, Commissioner. Would any of you like to ask another question? You're welcome, Senator. Mr. Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u225	Commissioner, one comment. The way the yellow card on posted workers has been dealt with, I suppose, for a long time will not allow us to believe that we are actually dealing with a policy that aims to strengthen national parliaments. My question is this... From our perspective, cohesion policy is one of the most important elements of the European Union's policies. Probably the second such element, which is extremely important for our part of Europe, the new Member States, is that the voice of the weaker countries, the smaller ones, is not only listened to, but is somehow taken into account in the final decisions. Two days ago, Senator Silence and I returned from a consultation with the national parliaments in Brussels. There, however, much has been said about the fact that there has been a crack in solidarity, that a stronger voice is often implemented forcefully, that the European Union is increasingly an area of command, not an area of freedom. And I'd like you to respond... During your term of office, this kindness to cohesion policy, regional policy, a policy of equalising certain opportunities... So we do not judge what has been done in our part or, above all, in our part of Europe, but it is about the attitude in the future. Do you see the danger that Europe will move away from its cohesion policy principles?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u226	Thank you very much, Senator. I give the floor to the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u227	Thank you very much. I think I've already answered the workers' directive. I know that the Commission adopted a communication in which it retained the proposal unchanged She re-examined this because the yellow card procedure had been activated. The proposal for a directive on the posting of workers received 14 reasoned opinions representing 22 votes. And here's the long explanation. As I said before, in my opinion, we need to deal with this and work out a solution to this directive on workers. As far as my experience is concerned, I firmly believe in cohesion and solidarity. Regional policy was paradoxically created in 1974 under pressure from the United Kingdom and Italy. Let historians assess where our countries would be if Central and Eastern European countries had benefited from these funds since 1975, as have other Member States. In any event, you have done very well, maximizing the use of the funds available since your entry into the Union. I think we're seeing some tension right now between net payers and net beneficiaries. I am not talking about stronger or weaker countries, smaller or larger countries, and I believe that this tension is more about beneficiaries and payers. That's why I think it's important to take action. I'm also involved in this. On net payers and net beneficiaries to emphasise that cohesion policy is the most visible policy that affects people's lives. This is the most visible policy, which is why in my opinion the beginning of the end would be if we did not pursue this policy further. Of course, we are facing some challenges here. Migration, internal and external security issues and the Brexit issue will make us have a smaller budget. But at the same time, we have to maximize the impact of what we have. We must fight for this policy to remain uniform for all regions, and at the same time we must simplify it more and make it much easier for people to understand it. Because I find it very annoying when I see young entrepreneurs who give up using our funds because they think that procedures are too complex and bureaucratic. Therefore, I think it is very important to work on simplifying cohesion policy and reforming it. We also have the Juncker Plan as a priority in cohesion policy. That is why it is very important, in my opinion, to maintain solidarity. Solidarity is a key word, but at the same time it becomes an empty word, so we must give it meaning again. We need to go back to the 60-year-old period and look at where we were then as the European Union, how we were divided and what we have achieved since then. 70 years Peace is the longest period of peace in the history of Europe, which is our most important achievement. So I'm really worried about seeing these tensions, seeing... We're not here to make things worse... We want cohesion policy to be a policy that develops regions as well as healing the wounds of our history. We also have a cross-border cooperation programme, which, in some contexts, has strong emotions for me. I was in Słubice and Frankfurt on the Oder, I know from history how many people died there, crossing borders, and now I saw people coming from Frankfurt to have a good dinner in Poland. I saw a bridge between these two cities above the Polish-German border. For us, for those who remember a time when it was not possible to cross borders, it is very moving. That is why I really believe in solidarity. I know that inequalities are growing, but at the same time I think that we should think well about where we would be today, if not for these EU policies, including cohesion policy, if not for this EU project, which is unique in the world and is a unique structure that we should preserve.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u228	Thank you very much, Commissioner. You are asking the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u229	Commissioner, I would like to ask you a question about Brexit. You are probably already thinking about a time when there will be no UK contribution, i.e. the years 2019 and 2020. How much less money? How much would the fee be for these two years? Are you already trying to change the budget, and in what areas are these changes in the budget going to be in? You are involved in cohesion policy, so I understand that you will defend cohesion policy. In that case, it could be cuts in the agricultural policy area. Are you trying to do this and are you discussing this in the European Commission?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u230	Commissioner, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u231	Of course. Thank you so much for that question. As I mentioned earlier, it was a decision of the British people and, although I personally do not like it, of course we must respect it. The main negotiator on the part of the European Commission is Mr Barnier. I know that he visited all 27 Member States and held bilateral meetings with Commissioners to discuss Brexit's impact on our policy. From the point of view of regional policy, from our point of view, the non-negotiable issue, part of the package, will be not only the free movement of workers, but also the UK's commitment to pay its financial contribution until 2023, because in our cohesion policy we have the regulation of 'n+3'. Some say it should be by 2020 and some say by 2023. However, I think it is very important for the British because they were in the Council at the time of the adoption of this budget for 2014-2020 and had a voice, they agreed on the size of the budget. They also voted on the allocation of funds to all Member States. I therefore believe that we, as the European Commission, should be very firm in bilateral discussions with the British Government that they must pay the amounts they have committed to by the end of this period programmed, because they have committed themselves to it by voting in the Council. In any case, we are aware that our budget will be depleted. We also know that some countries are not ready to complete this missing money. E.g. Germany has already said that they do not intend to contribute additional money to the Union budget. So we're gonna have to... I don't know, deal with it. As far as cohesion policy is concerned, we are talking about reducing the amount that we have at the moment by around 12-15% . The most important thing is that we maximize the use of the new budget. At the moment, we are at the beginning of discussions on the proposal as regards the post-2020 multiannual financial framework. We are committed to the fight for cohesion policy. I have already had a meeting with Vice-President Oettinger, who is responsible for the future budget of the Union, and I know that he would like to come to the end of your presidency in the Visegrad Group. Perhaps you'd like to invite him. Nevertheless, we have no clarity right now... You're asking me where the cuts will be and how... We don't have one right now... We are only at the beginning of discussions with the European Parliament, including the Committee of the Regions and within the European Commission. It is very important that we develop our own position on what we want to achieve with this new budget. Because it's not just a Brexit issue. Let us also remember the new challenges that we need to face, which require additional funding. It's gonna be another battle. We hope that we can all survive this fight and get out of it unharmed. Of course, I will fight for cohesion policy because, as I said before, I am convinced that this is something that connects us, the European Commission, with citizens, with regional presidents, with city authorities, with voivodships. This is the only policy that is so strongly linked to citizens' representatives. If we concentrate everything in Brussels or Luxembourg, then, as I said before, this will not be a good sign for European democracy, for the European Union and for the citizens. I personally believe that I am a representative of the regions in the European Commission, not the other way around. In my opinion, the European Union is not Brussels. In my opinion, the European Union is you, these are national parliaments, these are regions, these are 500 million people, these are the 27 countries that have chosen to live here together, to combine their resources, to develop together, to work together. And I think it's important to stress that. The game must also be stopped by assigning all that is wrong to the European Commission and all that is good to national Parliaments and regions. I spoke to my friend Carlos Moedas, who was in Manchester. We put 300 million euros in the university there, and he didn't even see a trace of any flag of the European Union or any other sign there. And when he asked, "How did you build such a beautiful university?" he got the answer: "It was our mayor." Nobody said anything about European funds. And it was us who, thanks to the EU funds, after the mine was closed across Wales, that we made the conversion, we got involved in the training of workers, the creation of new industries, new areas of activity. But that was a long time ago. I am not sure that the people who voted for Brexit to get out of the European Union knew that their jobs were due to money from the Union. I think this is due to our poor communication, we're not talking enough about what we're doing. We have research that shows that the majority of the population, the majority of citizens have never heard of cohesion policy in their lives, although we invest so much, especially in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. 80% Our funds are headed right here. That's what they're called. less developed regions. There is also a part of Italy, the south of Italy, Greece, Spain. So these are not only the new Member States, but also the Member States affected by the crisis. So I think it's a shame it's like I said. I believe that shared management also means shared responsibility. And I think it is not only our duty to talk about what the Union is doing, but it is also our duty to tell citizens what comes from European funds. I was in Greece, Athens, where I saw the infrastructure built thanks to the European Union: airport, highways, thousands of schools, Athens metro, Thessaloniki metro, bridges... And suddenly someone said, "Well, I heard that some money was used here from the European Union. Any money? 95% The money to finance the Athens Metro is some kind of money? For me, it is unimaginable for a country that can only benefit from membership in the European Union to talk about leaving it. I don't think we're in our part. Europe could afford such luxury as Britain. We know where we started. I think that now we have a chance to improve the situation, because today we have a voice, we are at the table with all the other Member States. We must be strong, we must build alliances and we must support the interests of our citizens, within the European Union and not outside it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u232	Thank you, Commissioner. And I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! Commissioner! One of the journals today wrote: Europe of five flavors. My question is... [[European Commission Commissioner for Regional Policy Corina Creţu: Sorry, I don't have a translation...]] [[Marcus, help over there.]] [[Help the lady.]] One of the journals, after the White Paper appeared, wrote today: Europe of five flavors. Could I ask such a question: which taste is the closest to the Commissioner or the European Union? And if one of these is, why? That's the first question. [[Maybe she didn't read it.]] [[Can you only have one?]] And the other one... [[She didn't read that journal.]] I hope you know the commissioner... [[The tastes of Europe know.]] Of course, I'm talking about directions of development, because here my colleagues are telling me that this has to be done. [[These five concepts...]] And, Commissioner, I'd still like a comment. Namely, it is written here: The authors of the White Paper remind us that the smooth operation of the common market requires a healthy rule of law. Business must not doubt the independence of the courts in all the countries of the Union in which it operates. I'd like a comment on that sentence. [[Commissioner for Regional Policy in the European Commission Corina Creţu: What is your exact scenario? Anyway, it doesn't matter, maybe I'll just answer.]] I'll be more specific. Five variants of the Union's development directions are five flavors. Which direction is the closest Commissioner and the European Commission to development?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u234	You're welcome, Commissioner. If that's an understandable question for you, then of course answer the question. And if not, I'm asking you to answer the senator's second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u235	Thank you very much. Well, on Tuesday evening we had a very long conversation with our colleagues, from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m., and it was a very lively discussion. We all supported President Juncker, who said that we should not appear arrogant, we should not come and impose our solution, because it is an imposition, not freedom. That is why we have presented five scenarios and each country can now take a stand, saying which of these options suits it best. And they can also form alliances so that their voice sounds loud enough in the Council and more. In my opinion, the white book... Especially scenarios 1, 2, 3 and 4 have their advantages and disadvantages. I have come to the conclusion that the fifth is the best because it covers the most common actions That's what I think. The fifth scenario provides for the sharing of powers, resources and joint decision-making between Member States. So it implies not only daily activities, but also enhanced cooperation, and I believe that this is a step forward. On the other hand, the other scenarios remind us of what could or could happen to Europe if we were unable to cooperate and find an agreement. Either way, the White Paper is just the beginning of the whole process. It was just presented by President Juncker and is to be debated by the Member States. Soon the Prime Minister of Poland will go to the Council Is it good for me that the Prime Minister represents Poland in the Council? And then he will already have a clear position of Poland, he will give the position of Poland, which I understand will be previously debated also in the Senate, in the national parliament. For our part, as the European Commission, we will start a dialogue with all Member States. It will be a series of debates on the future of the European Union: with citizens, with stakeholders, with representatives of civil society, as well as with politicians from all European countries, regions. In my opinion, this will be a very important voice in the debate that we will have in the coming months. This will apply to these analytical documents on five issues. Above all, it is about developing the social dimension of Europe. I think this is one of the most important aspects for Europe at the moment. We are not talking enough about social issues, social rights. We are talking more about tightening the belt, about economic and monetary union, about the single market, about those issues that need to be addressed, but we cannot build our political discourse on this basis, because no one will understand what we are talking about. Therefore, the social dimension is, in my opinion, extremely important in Europe. And this is the area where we should do more. We should constantly wonder how we can help the most vulnerable: children, young people, the elderly. We will therefore address these analytical documents and issues such as the social dimension, economic and monetary union, globalisation, European defence, the future of the EU's finances and budget. I hope that both the state and all European countries and regions will get involved in this because the future of cohesion policy depends on it. With regard to cohesion policy, we have just received the position of the German regions, which want to maintain cohesion policy as it stands, because they know how much they have benefited from it. The position of the French regions has also been influenced, which support it. So that I encourage you to consult associations, regions, so as to have a clear position on the post-2020 budget and cohesion policy. So I'm best suited to the fifth scenario. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u236	Thank you very much, Commissioner. Please, Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u237	Commissioner, I share your firm view when you see that Europe has been the pole of peace, solidarity and coherent policies for 70 years and, add, the rule of law and solidarity. But then the question arises: why is it that many political players, to put it simply, that the powers are so critical of this pole of good, including those countries with a high degree of democracy and the principles of justice? I am thinking here of the United States, the United Kingdom and perhaps other democratic powers. And second question. In the light of this crisis, is Europe as this great pole of good still attractive not only for those who want to join it but also for those who have signed or want to continue to sign multi-annual cooperation agreements? What do you think affects the fact that Europe is being criticised by some countries, especially democratic ones?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u238	Thank you, Senator. Commissioner, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u239	Thank you very much. As I said before, of course there are a lot of criticisms, but it is often unjustified. As I said, I believe that in recent years we, the pro-European environment, have made a big mistake, allowing so many things to happen. Since 15 or 10 years ago Prime Minister Cameron said that everything bad came from Brussels, how would he convince his citizens that it was quite the opposite, what he was trying to do in the last two months? That's why we all have to take responsibility. And I really think that some critical opinions are accurate, but we can improve things from the inside out. So I'm pretty sure... Okay, we're being criticized by the United States... But we have a unique project, and I don't think the U.S. fully understands it. I am sure you know that President Trump spoke to Mr Tusk, and he said that he spoke with President Juncker, who is the President of the Commission. So this is very difficult to understand. But we know that the European Union is a unique project. I really think that the European Union is still the best place to live in the world. I really believe that we have a lot of... I am the Commissioner responsible for regional policy, and so I visited most of the regions in Central and Eastern Europe, and I was wondering why we want to go on vacation to Italy, France or Spain, since we have such beautiful regions in our own countries, in Central and Eastern Europe, which we do not realize. So where are the better conditions for life? Maybe in the United States? Do you think it's a better place to live? Maybe in the Middle East? Is it better to live there? I really think that the European Union is still the most attractive space. But of course, no one should be left behind, and we should continue to work on self-improvement, because many critical opinions bring truth. However, as I said, we have the same responsibility, both in Brussels and at national level, for what is currently happening in Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u240	Thank you, Commissioner. Would any of you like to ask another question? Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u241	Commissioner, many countries in the European Union are now experiencing a real flood of populism and national selfishness. Some of these countries are facing a serious threat and this is a threat not only to these countries but also to the Union as a whole. Of course, this is due to many factors, but I think the most important reason for this is the economic crisis, unemployment, etc. My question is: what are the European Commission's plans to stimulate growth? Of course, these plans depend primarily on individual countries, but the Commission also has some tools. I mean, of course, Juncker's plan, but also the budget itself, spending on science and research, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u242	Thank you very much, senator, for the question asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u243	Thank you very much for your comments. I fully agree that these populist movements are indeed dangerous to European unity. The reasons for this are, of course, the economic crisis, unemployment, especially among young people. We are all aware that we also have other challenges ahead of us, such as: migration. I think populists are getting stronger, for example. in France for precisely this reason In connection with terrorism, not mainly because of the economic crisis. So, different are... But I think you're right, if we can move forward and achieve economic growth, we can reduce these populist tendencies. At the same time, as I said, we should not forget what the European Union has achieved through the funds. We had an evaluation. ex-ante of the 2007-2013 programme and we know that 1 million jobs have been created through EU funds. We also have a lot of instruments. In this Horizon 2020 or Youth Guarantees, we are trying to achieve synergies between all of them. What you mentioned is the most important thing: creating jobs and ensuring security. When I was in Italy, I noticed that the highest youth unemployment rate was recorded there around 2013, following the 2008 crisis. That's close to 50%. young people between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five were unemployed. This situation has now begun to improve and unemployment rates She fell a lot. So I think we're on a developmental path. But we don't grow as fast as we want. Juncker's plan was also prepared to increase the level of investment to attract private investment to the real economy. In my opinion, this is very important. I believe that science, research, digital technology or the low-carbon economy are the most important priorities, because action in this area is driving the modern economy. Therefore, I was pleased to note that thanks to EU funds in Poland there was an infrastructure transformation, which is very important because inter-regional connectivity is very important. Now, in the new programming period, Poland focuses on research and development and on science. During my first visit to Poland, I participated in the opening of a new metro station in Warsaw, and I also visited a very interesting complex of medical universities in which work on new medicines is being carried out. Investing in research is not about investing for research itself, but about our innovations and discoveries being able to market later. This is therefore a very important issue. And Poland is a pioneer in this area. I even told my team that we should take advantage of all the experience of some Member States, and it is Poland, as I said, as a new Member State is doing very well in this respect, that is the first beneficiary. There are other countries that are making significant progress in other areas and other countries are doing less. We have 24 000 workers in the field who work with EU funds, and we need to make better use of this experience in order to move people. If the public procurement system doesn't work somewhere, we don't need to look for outside employment, we can use our people from other regions who are doing the best we can. You have the best financial instruments and the best use of Juncker's plan, so you can use your expertise to show in other countries how you managed to do it. As part of this point of view, I really think that this will be a very important factor. The level, the quality of life, the social dimension, the comfort we have. As I said earlier, the European Union is affected by a great deal of criticism and some will be right, they will be critical. But to be honest, I don't see any alternative, and I don't think we can afford the luxury of looking for solutions other than those available within the European Union. As far as the economic situation is concerned, I really think that the key issues are growth, development and new jobs. Growth and new jobs can be created by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises that form the backbone of every economy; we can support thematic objectives, i.e., as I said earlier, research, innovation, a low-carbon economy, the transition to the use of means to drive every economy. I believe that small and medium-sized enterprises are crucial in economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u244	Thank you, Commissioner. I don't know if there are any more questions for the Commissioner. I know you planned to be here by 5:15. Does anyone else have any questions? No. Commissioner, thank you very much for your speech and for the comprehensive answers to your senators' questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u245	I'd like to add one more thing. I'm very happy to be here, even though I've had a long week and a long day, and I'm always happy to make another visit. I very much appreciate the desire to conduct this dialogue. I would also like to welcome the representation of your regions in Brussels. I am also a big fan of Poland, because in 1/4 I am Polish. My grandparents' parents were refugees from Poland. They took refuge in the Republic of Moldova and fled from there to Romania after the Russians invaded the Republic of Moldova. So my roots are from here and I feel at home here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u246	Thank you very much again, Commissioner. [[Commissioner for Regional Policy in the European Commission Corina Creţu: Thank you very much.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański. Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Maybe we should wait for everyone to leave for a while.]] Yeah, we'll wait a minute. A small technical break, Ladies and gentlemen, just a minute, 2 minutes. Thank you very much again, Commissioner. Thank you and see you, Commissioner. Goodbye. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to Minister Konrad Szymanski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u247	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I think it was an interesting meeting and it should be as much as possible. I listened to this discussion and I think there were some important threads. One of them is to make the European Union aware of the role of national parliaments. We are convinced, also as a government, from an institutional point of view, that this is not a problem, that is the solution to the problem in many European Union issues, especially in terms of not so much influence or democratic control, but in terms of the sense of co-ownership of this project on the part of Member States, nations, which, after all, have their political representations in national parliaments. The regions must play a role in this matter, but Parliaments are of course an essential political representative in each Member State. In this sense, I think it is important that we have managed not only to touch on the issue of the European Commission's annual legislative plans, but also on more systemic issues. From this point on, I will try to refer only to the legislative task plan, the annual plan of the European Commission. I will start by saying that it is difficult to disagree that the priorities set out in this work programme are properly indicated. They are largely dictated by life in the sense that it is quite obvious what kind of needs Europe is facing, and it is quite obvious that the most important projects, the key EU policy projects, are being implemented in a way far beyond the 1 year horizon, so we have a high level of continuation. I have recently been in this House, reporting on the work of the Slovak Presidency, so I apologize in advance for the fact that many things will be repeated, because these are things that simply continue. Those that are really worth paying attention to are big things that last longer than the legislative process in many Member States. It is worth noting that the European Commission has stuck to its commitment a few years ago to reduce the number of legislative proposals to reduce the number of law adopted in the Union. This, in principle, is a goal which Poland strongly supports. Apart from the fact that initiatives should be thought out, they should only respond to those aspects that are really needed at EU level, should also be shaped in such a way as to regulate the sources of law in the European Union. This is also visible in this work programme. Work on improving the quality of the law has been an important aspect of the work of the European Commission for several years and is strongly supported by the Polish government. This does not mean that the work on harmonisation of legal sources does not sometimes create political tensions. Sometimes they go beyond purely legislative cleaning work. Sometimes they bring changes in standards. Poland is not only aware of this, but also carefully looks at all legislative work, even when it is presented as merely clean work. I think that from a political point of view, what happened as a result of Brexit and what the first stop, but not the last, was Bratislava. I think that this is the way to look at every legislative action today, every political action of the European Union. At the time, we pointed out very well among all the Member States that, in view of the many tensions that Commissioner Creţu has mentioned and which are now beyond the scale that is easy to deal with by political organisms such as the European Union At this scale of political tensions today, a serious question is raised about the future of this project. The issue of the political responsibility of the countries, but also of the institutions, in this case the Commission, which has basically an exclusive legislative initiative, is extremely important. It is extremely important that we recognise that we must define political objectives together. Together, define those to which the Union is to serve and reject those which together cannot be regarded as binding. Together we must also choose instruments, means to achieve these objectives. It is clear that not all the objectives that could easily be set before the Union are supported by all Member States. And it is quite clear that not all instruments chosen by the European Commission share the same support from all Member States. This error, which at first might seem small, small, consisting in defining objectives and choosing measures outside the principle of consensus, apart from the principle of full agreement on what should be done and how it should be done, makes sure that, as I say, the nawis, which has reached a crisis scale in the European Union today. That would be my fundamental political expectation from the European Commission this year. In order to learn from this joint political commitment of the Heads of Government of Bratislava and jointly define the objectives and jointly select the resources. Only then will we come out of a situation where there is a radical internal conflict in the European Union every few months. The way to unload these conflicts is not to tell this country or another country to give up its beliefs to give up its interests. That's not how you build an agreement. In this way, a sense of supremacy is built over each other. The only way that can bring peace to the European Union, but also the effectiveness of the European Union, is by appealing to the principle of consensus, to the principle of mutual agreement on objectives and measures. To discuss the main lines of this programme, I would like to touch on the issue of migration. This is the most clear example of the fact that following this, let's call it, the Bratislava principle brings very desirable results. For the whole spectrum of actions in the area of external migration policy have succeeded not only do we define the common goal of stopping and controlling the still uncontrollable migratory wave today, but also take measures. These measures are not only the protection of the external border, not only humanitarian aid on the ground, not only cooperation with countries of origin and transit of migration, but also investment activities in those countries, so as to build hopes for a better life there, as well as hard cooperation in the area of political stability of these regions, in the area of building resilience of those countries. Because the effect of their irresistibility to political shocks, terrorism and political instability is that millions of people must leave their homes, creating immigration pressures at the southern borders of the European Union, today only at the southern borders of the European Union. The agreement with Turkey and the soon-to-be agreement with Libya are very good examples of difficult and costly but effective measures in relation to this crisis, which is of course European in nature. No one in Poland, I think, think, thinks that this crisis is narrow, that it is a crisis of others. This is a crisis to which the European Union must respond together, because it is the European Union that is the victim of this crisis, even if we point out that only some countries are exposed to its direct effects. The European Commission's plans for reform of the asylum system are lacking in unity in defining the objective and selecting the resources. It's a famous subject. Attempting to put in place permanent mechanisms for transnational management of refugee traffic, attempting to add some sanctioning elements to this will end only by deepening the political crisis, and no one in the European Union should care about that. As with all the external areas of migration policy, we can note with satisfaction that we are co-authors of success, so we still have to wait for internal migration policy. And be patient. This European consensus should finally be born. It seems that he is within reach, but is still not confirmed, which should be noted with sadness. Only to some extent in the context of the migration crisis should the European Union's growing commitment to internal security be noted. These issues should not be linked, they should not be marked by equality and should be seen as a strong relationship, although there is a link, of course. The European Union has its vocation, has a role to play in terms of internal security. We are pleased to note that we could in very fast mode For the European Union, it's a record-breaking To adopt a renewed Border Guard Regulation and already to deal with instruments which will equip the European Union's external border with appropriate instruments for controlling traffic at these borders. Such control, which will also give our citizens the conviction that the external border of the European Union is not a hole border. The growing belief that the external border of the European Union is not controlled in any way is washing the belief that movement can be maintained without border controls within the European Union. And that's a good conclusion. If this were to be the case, if it was the fact that the external border of the European Union is undefensible, then Schengen days will be counted. He's in our deepest interest. Not only ours, but everyone, I think, of a Member State, in particular those countries that are involved in trade, in international trade, in order to prevent such a scenario. And a lot about it. It is not only about plans, but also about the measures taken. The second topic, a large cross-cutting theme, which will be with us for the coming months and years, is the future of the common financial framework for the years after 2020. One problem to solve is, of course, passing away, fading away. To a greater or lesser extent, we do not yet know to what extent, but certainly an important British contribution. But this is not the only problem we have with the multiannual financial framework. Not from now on, but from the very beginning of our membership of the European Union since 2004, there have been discussions on the purpose of maintaining the Treaty policies of the European Union, the shape of the common agricultural and budgetary policy as a regional policy for which the Commissioner Creţu is responsible. We are open to discussing new challenges It's a real problem. That are facing the European Union. These new challenges are certainly and certainly should find their budgetary support. One such problem is migration. However, we note that this should not be done through simple To say no: simple moving money from one, no less important part of the EU budget to the other only because we are suddenly short of money to support some important, important EU, European important goals. We will pay attention to the fact that in the case of migration there is a lot to be done This shows the almost adopted mid-term agreement on the multiannual financial framework by moving money from other parts of the budget, which are much closer to the problem of migration. I mean foreign policy and citizenship issues. We draw attention to the fact that a significant part of the migration measures we are taking today is financed by contributions from Member States that come outside the EU budget; the Turkish Fund is an example of this. We would like to point out that the reasons why the European Union has been set up with so much Treaty support As serious a budgetary position as the common agricultural policy, they have not ceased. Europe is still attached to such a model of financing agricultural policy for a reason. This is not a gesture towards the professional group in order to gain its support for the European Union, but there is a model of financing agricultural policy, as well as a social model, an idea of what to look like, how to change social life in the European Union. In the case of cohesion policy... In Poland it is relatively easy to defend this policy, but on an international quorum, as I say not from now on, only since 12 years, we have the same discussion all the time. It is a discussion about whether this policy should be treated as a policy of small gestures or perhaps even big gestures, or whether it should be treated as a systemic solution for problems that are completely real in the European Union, for the problem of regional inequality, for the problem of social inequality. Today, when someone is telling us, and this tone is getting stronger and stronger, that we need instruments with a more investment or pro-investment character, the expression of this is Juncker's plan, and we note that cohesion policy is of such a nature. And I think that a lot of regions, especially in Poland, especially in the new Member States, show that cohesion policy objectives, which are also effective, can be achieved with the desired investment effect. This is the reason why Poland has already renewed the Cohesion Policy Friends Group in the Council today. We are working intensively with all those countries that are potentially interested in defending this policy because the forthcoming debate on the multiannual financial framework will be very difficult. It will be difficult to maintain the budgetary position of these policies, as well as the content of these policies, the construction of these policies, so that they can still meet the same objectives that have not ceased to be European objectives and have not ceased to be Treaty objectives. Another thread that I would like to address in this speech is, of course, the future of the market. There is an urgent need to renegotiate the discussion on completing the service market. From the beginning it is the part that represents the growing part of the European economy, but it is still not a complete market; it is a paradox. It is easy for us to shape the market in those areas that are not so crucial for European GDP, but for services it is very resistant. In this sense, we welcome with enthusiasm the initiatives of the European Commission, the e-card initiative to make it easier and closer to the moment when we can recognise that we have a common market for services in Europe. The digital market is, of course, a new aspect. The initiatives that have been put forward in the annual programme on VAT, also on more systemic issues, are worth supporting. With one condition: Poland will belong to this group of countries It is already due today, and at ministerial level, and at Prime Minister's level. . which will stress the systemic, systemic importance of the freedom of data flow in this market. We are convinced that without this freedom, the Community digital market will have a tendency to... We're afraid of a system failure to complete this project. Of course, in addition to initiatives that support us or sometimes arouse our enthusiasm, there are initiatives on the other side that cause concern. Not without reason has it been mentioned many times today that we see a clear protectionist wave; it not only exists in the Member States but also moves to Brussels itself, which is supposed to be an institution that protects the common market from dismantling it. Some Commission initiatives I mean the road package, the posting of workers, these are initiatives which intentionally or unintentionally, that is, consideration for someone else, have the effect of disintegrating the market, in particular services, but also the movement of labour, restricting competition in the Community market, at the expense of the consumer, of course. And he doesn't go here. Because that was the case in Commissioner Creţu's speech on the prospect of defending the right to provide services by workers from Central Europe... This too, of course, is a very important dimension, because we know who is losing on these solutions. But it's much more systemic. In 2004, we decided to open borders, eliminate non-tariff restrictions on flow, for example. capital. This resulted in an increase in investment in many industries. Of course, this growth had a very important, good, positive impact on economic development, but it also had effects that today are quite loudly criticised, effects in the form of domination by foreign capital, the EU, such as banking or trade. If we accept the logic of those countries that are offering us today to close the transport services market, we should reduce the opportunities for foreign investment in these two areas, because we are uncomfortable. Well, let's see. It is related to the fact that banking and trade are dominated by foreign capital. We do not do this because we believe that this is a matter of fundamental principles of the common market, which should apply to all. But if so, we expect exactly the same from the countries that today feel uncomfortable in the case of much smaller industries, let's be honest with ourselves. It's because they're losing the competition. That's all. This is a matter of reciprocity. If we were to follow the logic of some Member States, but also, unfortunately, in part, of the European Commission, we should follow the path on which the Community market would end up being dismantled, because probably every country has such an area, such a sector where freedom, the cross-border provision of services or investment is considered a problem. If we follow this logic, at the end of the road we will wake up in a union where the Community market is fiction. That is why we are keeping the European Commission from such initiatives. We will be strongly opposed not only because of the economic interests of our industries, but also because of the rules. This is a much more serious, systemic approach to this problem. The development of low-carbon mobility is an important part of the Commission's work programme. Usually, such programmes from a central European perspective are a challenge rather than an opportunity, but not in this case. In this case, Poland already has its own strategies, extremely ambitious strategies for developing low-carbon mobility, in terms of a significant part of this market, which is outside the ETS. This is not only a low carbon strategy but also an industrial policy. So all we really expect is to shape Europe's strategies so that they are not conflicting. In short, we expect to put Polish plans in this area into the EU context. I hope that in the area of energy next year we will simply close the revision of the Security of Gas Supply Regulation in such a way that it will really result in promotion, development in tackling energy supply crises. This is a question of the binding nature of these provisions and the real anti-crisis scenarios in individual groups of Member States of the European Union that have certain weaknesses. Again, it is not a matter of a narrow look and belief that it is very important from a Polish point of view. This is very important from the point of view of building the resilience of the European market to supply disruptions, i.e. from the point of view of building Europe's negotiating power towards external energy suppliers. This is not a narrow issue; this is not a regional issue; this is not a central Europe issue. This is a matter for the Union as a whole. As far as the economic and monetary union is concerned, the compromise on the Banking Union depends to a large extent on the arrangement of relations and interests within the euro area. For us, it is important that such solutions do not put a shadow on the integrity of the common market, and it seems that this is to be achieved. Other problems are much harder to solve than those that are crucial from our point of view. Nevertheless, we are concerned that the European Pillar of Social Rights is trying to stick to economic and monetary union. As you know, we have nothing against social rights. In Poland, some criticize us by saying that this government, in terms of social needs and job protection, behaves in a manner that is too kind, so that is not the problem. We do not want to build the competitiveness of the Polish economy at low costs and uncomfortable working conditions or the provision of services. However, we would like to pay close attention to the fact that these noble assumptions, in order to better protect work and workers, do not simply reduce competition. In fact, in this way we can create a situation in which, in the name of these noble ideals, we will take people's jobs, because in the end someone will lose this job, and certainly those workers who today receive less pay will lose it. Those who receive a higher salary may have to limit themselves because some of this salary will go to one of the welfare facilities in one country or another, but those who have less comfortable working conditions will certainly be the first to pay for such reckless solutions. In this respect, the European Union's autumn social summit is, I think, extremely important. It would be very good if the Polish Parliament also played an important role at this summit, was heard and reminded of this perspective of looking at the issue of social rights. I think that there are two external issues: international trade and external relations. With regard to trade, especially after CETA and after the discussion that took place in all Member States, including Poland, it is clear that there is a huge need for transparency, a huge need for communication. The idea is to talk more about what the meaning of European trade policy is. From our point of view, it is clear that no trade agreement today or in the future should have any deindustrial effects. It should not have the effect of weakening the regulatory framework for our social standards, health standards, food safety standards and agri-food production standards. In the case of CETA, we will soon be able to see whether this agreement works the way the critics want it to or whether it works in a much more quantitative way. In the case of new agreements with Japan, perhaps Mercosur, perhaps with the United States Today these talks are suspended and we will have to pay great attention to all these aspects. Poland, however, is certainly not alone here. In external relations of a purely foreign nature, this will be the time to implement a European global strategy. I do not want to develop this topic, but from a Polish point of view it is important that the European Union, if it wants and can, play an important role from an international point of view and be an important player in international relations, because it can translate positively into Polish security. But it is also important that these objectives are defined in such a way that no one in Brussels forgets that threats to international security flow not only from the South, not only from terrorism, but also from the East. If we find a balance when it comes to seeing these threats and challenges, I see great opportunities for Europe to play a greater role in this area. The document that the Commissioner has discussed and to which I have given so much attention is of course a review, so that you can make an opinion on the individual initiatives I have chosen must, of course, wait for the time when they will be in the legislative process, some of them are already in the legislative process. and at a time when the government will put forward specific positions on specific legislative acts. And as far as the overall perspective of this year's work is concerned, from a Polish point of view, from the government's point of view it looks exactly like this: there are a lot of opportunities there, many sensible projects and many difficult issues, problems that need to be solved. It would be good for these solutions to be far more consensual than ever before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u248	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, would any of your senators like to ask a question to the Minister? The Minister was with us recently... [[Yeah, yeah.]] ...so I don't know if there might have been any new questions. I'm asking because at 6:00 p.m., we're gonna have to adjourn. I understand there are no questions for the Minister. Minister, thank you very much for your comprehensive information. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Marek Rocki will be the first to speak in the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The European Commission's 2017 work programme presents the main objectives of legislative and non-legislative activities this year. It is worth noting that the work programme sets out concrete proposals which, at the same time, constitute the Commission's contribution to the preparations for the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome at the end of this month. However, initiatives of key importance for economic growth in the European Union, stimulating investment and job creation are at the heart of the programme. The European Commission's proposals are in line with the priorities set out in the July 2014 Political Guidelines of President Juncker and the priorities identified by the 27 Heads of State of the European Union in Bratislava last September. The European Commission's efforts to simplify the regulatory environment, to counter over-regulation, to avoid excessive bureaucratic and administrative burdens and to focus efforts on the implementation of existing legislation should be welcomed. I would like to inform you that, at its 90th meeting on 21 February this year, the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union examined the Commission's work programme for 2017 and took note of the government's position on this issue. During the discussion, among others, the debate was discussed. the problem of the European social pillar, the planned transport initiatives, the European Union's common foreign and security policy, the consequences of Brexit on the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union of the Senate adopted an opinion resulting from the commitment of national parliaments at the 2015 Conference of the Commission for the Affairs of the EU Parliaments of the European Union to identify which Commission initiatives set out in the work programme are considered as priorities. The list of priorities defined jointly by the Presidency Parliament is to be forwarded to the European Commission and the European Parliament. Our committee has prioritised the following initiatives: the implementation of the Circular Economy Action Plan, the post-2020 financial framework, the implementation of the Digital Single Market Strategy, the implementation of the Single Market Strategy, the European Pillar of Social Rights, the implementation of the European Agenda on Migration, the implementation of the European Union's Global Foreign and Security Policy Strategy, including the implementation of the Security and Defence Action Plan. For these initiatives, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union will monitor the actions taken by the European Commission. So many reports on the work of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the European Commission's 2017 work plan. I would like to make a brief comment on the questions raised by the Commissioner here. Senator Seweryński pointed out that the role of national parliaments in cooperation with the Commission should be greater. I would like to say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has emphasised this at the beginning of the meeting with more than 90 meetings, i.e. working very intensively. Let me say that an expression of the intensity of this work is that since the beginning of the term of office, the number of committee members has fallen by 1/3. [[Please commend us, those who remain.]] Senators, committee members are rapporteurs of individual draft directives, which shows how intensive and substantive the work of the committee is. Finally, we are acting on behalf of the Senate in an opinion on the draft acts of the European Union. You're welcome to cooperate. Thank you so much for the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u250	Thank you very much, senator. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Referring to Senator Rocki's statement, I would like to stress that the decrease in the number of committee members is not at all the fault of the chairman. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Well, you don't know.]] High Izbo, since the work programme has been discussed in quite detail both by the chairman of the committee and by the Minister, I will allow myself to address the issue raised by the Commissioner, and Widen-up. - to the situation in which the European Union is located. Dear Members, is it so that we can say today that the European Union is at a crucial moment? That is a fundamental question. Remember, breakthroughs do not happen when everything is clear when something new is introduced in place of the old order without conflict. Most often breakthroughs occur when the old order seems to be still actively involved in creating reality, while this reality is so advanced that when the old order realizes that there is a change, it is too late for anything. And, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are at a crucial moment. The earlier the representatives of the Union realise that action must be taken immediately, the better it will be. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't Brexit a situation that shouldn't have happened? It's not even a question of whether it should happen, but... This is the situation that, for the first time in decades, the growing, growing numbers, increasing its territory, the European Union is starting to shrink, and it is starting to shrink. This is a symptom of change that everyone should see. As representatives of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, we are fresh This was done this week. After the Visegrad summit. Here, in Warsaw, representatives met... there were guests from Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. And during this summit, Marshal Marek Kuchciński presented a very accurate diagnosis of the crisis. He drew attention to three very important elements: the helplessness of the European Union towards the problem of migration, on... The Union seemed surprised, confused. Although migration is now partially contained, the numbers that show the number of migrants are still quite high. In addition, the European Union has, as a rule, allowed the EU institutions to go beyond the Treaty framework for certain countries. This approach is starting to criticize... In fact, it resulted in Brexit and it resulted. This must be said about conflicts with countries such as Hungary or Poland. Another element of this crisis, this breakthrough that we can talk about, is the rise in the level of disintegration moods in the countries of the European Union. Nationalistic sentiments in some countries make thinking about leaving the European Union present not only in the British Isles but also in other countries. What can we do in this situation with such a diagnosis? At the meeting of the four-angle of Visegrad, there were elements that were present today, too, in the Commissioner's speech, elements that personally alarmed me, because both at the meeting of Visegrad and in the speeches of the Commissioner it was stressed that the so-called group. The beneficiary countries should be happy, happy with what is happening in Brussels, because these countries have received so much from Brussels, so much for infrastructure, for backward regions, as the Commissioner said here. E.g. Kielce has received funds and there's been a change... It is so that if the European Union is pursuing a policy, this policy is that we have staff, law and finances. If we want to pursue the political objectives of the European Union, then we must get money for it. We, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, are not some particularly poor relative. I don't want to say that you're a protagonist, as you can sometimes read. And we didn't enter the Union with anything. We, Dear Members, have entered the European Union with a 38 million-dollar market, with huge territories. As Minister Szymański stressed very strongly today, we have opened ourselves to the Union by building a common market. Therefore, accusing us of ungratefulness for getting money, so we should keep quiet, it is strongly inappropriate, because the Polish soul cannot be bought for any money. We have our national identity and we want this national identity to be respected in the European Union, which has also been strongly highlighted in the speeches of some of the Visegrad countries, among others. Hungary, which also stressed the role of national parliaments very strongly, but also the role of national identity. Brussels cannot behave like a roller that will destroy history, tradition, our nationality. We have our beliefs, we bring them to the Union. We are behind the Union, we sign behind these hands and legs, in Poland the mood is one of the most pro-Union. But this cannot mean that we will obey what Brussels says to us. We want to be listened to, we want to be heard, we want to decide together as part of a partnership dialogue on common things. Because if the Commissioner speaks briefly, of course, and I simplify it The fact that it is in favour of this fifth direction of development of the European Union, which is in fact based on the far-reaching concentration of the EU countries and going into some kind of federation, should be asked who will benefit the most from the federation. If someone thinks that the countries of the European Union have entered the Union unselfishly without caring for their national interests, then I think it is wrong. The European Union was created so that the countries that enter the Union could live better so that citizens could live better. So each country brought its national interest into the EU and cares about it. Just as they care about the national interests of Germany, as they care about the national interests of the French, so Poles care about their national interests, and we want the European Union to allow us to take care of our national interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u252	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I state that the Senate has been familiar with the European Commission's work programme for 2017. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his presence in the course of this item. And at this point, I'm announcing a recess until 8:00 p.m. We'll be back at 8:00 p.m. on point two. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 59 to 20 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u253	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: a law on special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! When I read this law in detail, and I also listened to statements promoting this way of fighting wild or thieving phenomena, or simply unlawful reprivatization, when I heard these arguments, I had such a reflection that the authors of this law were the inbred children of Kargul and Pawlak of their own. For there is a famous term, it is a winged saying that the court of law, and justice must be on our side. And such statements fall, fall, and in this Chamber, and in the Seym, and beyond, and it worries me very much, because it means some complete degradation of the law. That is what Mr Kornel Morawiecki said in his time, who said that the good of the nation is more important than the law. Of course, the problem is who is to define this good of the nation and why the law is to be ignored. Recently, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister, gave an interview to Deutsche Welle, said that the law is of course important, but justice is more important to him, and made some strange comparisons with the law of Nazi Germany, which supposedly was strictly respected, and yet justice was not there. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in democratic countries, that is what we are talking about, if the law does not provide justice, because that is of course the case, it is the law that needs to be changed. But it cannot be that if we think that the law is unfair and justice should be enforced, we put the law in a corner and do something else, something that is just. It's the way to anarchy, it's just the way to nowhere. And unfortunately, that's what we're dealing with about this bill. I hear in the statements of Minister Jakie and others that justice must be restored, and it must be done by some means, so to speak, in a crossroads. Senator Pop said the lawyers couldn't make it. Lawyers couldn't do it, so now it's gotta be illegal, 'cause now we're gonna speed it up. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is usually or very often so that there are various negative phenomena, sometimes they even splash. Well, in order not to look far away, I will give you an example: the subject of VAT fraud is very much exposed at the moment. Well, is there a special committee for this? No, the law is changing. It's the law that we've changed here, and it's quite agreeable enough to eliminate these frauds. Meanwhile, this proposal, which is here, bears the characteristics, all the characteristics of the so-called. Folk justice, but it's actually calculated on the political impact. She is calculated to fight her political opponents for a long time, and in any case to elections, certainly to local elections, or maybe longer, because it is known, in his statements, that Minister Jak did not hide that it was the policy of the Warsaw government that has led to this for the last 8 years. So it's just hard to agree to a law that doesn't even hide those kinds of goals. And when it comes to certain details, here's what I'm going to say. There's really a lot to talk about here, but I have to limit myself to some. Are you going to be helpless? You're asking Minister Jak. Of course not. The state cannot be helpless. I would like to say that, in the last term of office, the state, because we are also a country, has proposed and adopted a small act of reprivatization, and I was her co-initiator, and I was her rapporteur and here, and in the Sejm. A very important one, who actually cut off a large piece of these frauds, simply cut it off. There was also a law against house cleaners, which was initiated here by the present Senator Rulewski and which was adopted. So you can do this kind of thing by legal means. The state does not need to be helpless, but the State must act with the mechanisms it has. Minister Jak says, but the prosecutor's office was helpless, the prosecution did not take these actions. Well, to some extent I can even agree that it has not often stood up to the task. Except today this is another prosecutor's office, this is the prosecutor led by the minister of this government, notabene of the author of this project, the minister who controls the prosecutor's office manually and who won't allow the prosecution to be passive. Why isn't he using her? Well, because it's supposed to be a political spectacle. That's the only reason. It's one thing. Second thing. Minister Jak, when we talk about the education of committee members, says that they may have legal education, but may not have legal education, they may have the necessary knowledge in the real estate business. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a complete lock. What does "necessary" mean? At least it says it's meant to be documented, but it doesn't. So there could be just anybody there. To such an argument Minister Jak says: I apologize very much, it is a public administration body, and for example. The president of the city, also the public administration that made such decisions, does not need to have legal education. Gronkiewicz-Waltz has it, but he doesn't have to have it. It doesn't have to be. Only the difference is that the real public administration is suffering from the consequences of its actions, and this committee is not having any consequences. It can make ridiculous decisions, decisions that will expose the Treasury to enormous costs, and will not bear any consequences. That is why it is all the more important to take care of these people's great expertise. In the meantime, it doesn't even say that members of this committee can't be members of parliamentarians. And they shouldn't be. If you want this committee to act objectively, the worst thing is letting parliamentarians in. But it's not written in this bill. Therefore, it is completely unknown who will be there. Finally, Minister Jak says that from the moment this draft law appeared, all returns have been suspended, and he adds that it is very good. I'm the one who has to ask, I'm so sorry if the thesis is that all returns were stolen. I don't think so. Returns were made - That's by the way. Also in the days of the presidency of Lech Kaczyński. And the fact that no government could deal with it permanently, permanently, etc., etc., is a completely different subject. I'll even take the chance that most of the returns were correct. She relied on the documents and actually obtained them either by the owners or by those who acquired those claims from them, which was also lawful. So the fact that it's completely stopped right now is also absurd. It means that there are people who really deserve it, but they'll be waiting for Ad Kalendas Graecas, because this committee can work for a very, very long time. Now the question of some arbitrary decision. It is stated in the bill that the committee may demand a return of value not only when we were dealing with a forgery of documents or when some new facts came out or something which clearly shows that the acquisition of this property was unlawful. But also when, as a result of reprivatization carried out in accordance with the law, I stress, they were not in line with the principles of social facts. So we understand that the point is that someone took over the building with the residents and then tried to smoke them out. And now the committee is wondering what kind of action it would take to attract to the wrong ones. Or, for example, increase in rent... Because we didn't get an answer to that question here. Was the increase in the rent that was legal, that kind of action or not? [[Mr. Senator...]] Yeah, I'm almost done. It wasn't defined here. It's absolutely arbitrary. It's up to you to decide... If I don't like this one, I'll decide how I like it, I'll leave him alone. So, in conclusion... I'm already skipping all these reservations about unconstitutionality. It's obvious. And taking the role of the courts. I would say this: if this committee had been appointed to assist law enforcement and judicial authorities, I mean, she would have looked over the cases, thought about them, and those that she thought were questionable, pointed to the prosecutor, I would have voted for such a committee, because I think it would have speeded things up. And such a situation that this committee is ruling, ruling, etc., is a state that will only lead to problems and problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u255	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the course of the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and Petitions, I have already made a far-reaching motion to reject the law in its entirety, not only in my knowledge, not only in my political and life-related experiences in Peerel, but, above all, in all of these opinions, statements of experts, well-known authorities, which strongly ordered me not to raise my hand under this law. Nevertheless, until today I am trying to read in intentions and in the workshop of this law. Minister Jak, thank you for coming to my speech. I also read that you want to be Polish Falcone, only with a happy ending, as I understand it, and that's what I wish you. And I also understand what Senator Borowski has said that you are trying as hard as possible to connect one to the other, to introduce an identity between the law and the rule of law. It's just that you can imagine a lot of things, even though you're gonna break the record of jumps on Big and Little Croc, but I can't imagine you as a judge in a toga, as an investigator on Falcone. This law, to which you are very attached, is not the tool for which both the inhabitants of Warsaw and the citizens of all Poland are waiting. A lot of arguments have already been made here. I had tabled more than 15 amendments earlier, which I still believe to be valid, and the debate did not explain at all... She has complicated my views and, I think, other senators' views on this matter. Even if you accept your claim that Poles expect, as well as other people who lived in Poland, the reprivatization bill will not solve the current problems, you cannot say that there will be no new problems, not only in Warsaw, but in the whole country. So this reprivatization pregnancy, so to speak, is still on us as a gynaecological obligation. There is no such initiative on the part of the State, so I answer It is also because it is not true that all countries have taken up reprivatisation efforts, for example. in Germany this is not the case That the reprivatisation bill will of course not provide a sense of justice, but any law that will regulate a certain legal state, even in a symbolic form. And that is why I will continue to defend it, to sustain what is related to the work of the entire Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions, because many people have been asking for such expectations for years. Thus, above all, the Law on reprivatization, and not only on the scope of Warsaw, but covering the whole country, and it immediately in a very, but it is very symbolic, as I would suggest, to regulate the legal status, so that this pregnancy does not extend, so that it does not increase by new cases, among others. the ones that will result from the verdicts of this law. This is no longer negligence. They'll be coming down here by now. New verdicts. The other thing... Now, why I cannot accept this and why I maintain my motion not to vote in favour of this bill. This is because I am guided by a request which I think is close to you and to your colleagues, which is that this law, as you yourself said, should be effective and swift in effect. Well, unfortunately, it appears from the assumptions and regulations that she will certainly extend the process of repairing possible damage which, as you say, did not just anyone, not a citizen, not even a group of citizens, but, as you said, a criminal-political group, so a group that exceeds even what Judge Falcone was dealing with. He managed, among others. during such a megaprocess I hope you know the story. Although the sacrifice he suffered and not only him, it was huge. So that this law does not simplify, does not bring closer the fulfilment of the expectations of all those who have been harmed, but extends this process, and, of course, even more away from the prospect of reprivatization law. And that's the basic principle, because you install a new, undefined, or at least precisely, institution called the committee. The committee itself If you go to the law, there is a contradiction, because the chairman comes from another parish, so to speak, from ministers and members from the Sejm. That would still be acceptable. It is possible to vote. If the president were of this government and the majority were also of this parliament. But what's gonna happen if And no doubt everyone here shows that, and you do not deny it, Minister, that the work of this committee, even if it does not, as they say, last 800 years or even 80 years, will at least exceed this term of office. When the elections between the government and the parliament disperse? It's another case. Minister, in my opinion, you were wrong to answer our colleague when you said that there was a rule of appointment and dismissal. It is briefly written. If the Sejm appoints a committee, then it must lay down the rules for its appointment, it must also lay down the rules for appeal. He has to accept whether it's a term or not. What about the dysfunction of the Sejm if it turns out I'm sure we'll find out. That the work of this committee will last several terms? He must also accept that someone can resign, someone can be promoted, someone can be offended, someone can, God forbid, hurt in this chain of command process. It's not regulated. So I postulate, Minister... Although I see a change in your position when you say that today Warsaw, tomorrow the whole country. I'm glad you wrote that down. The point is not to introduce the division of Poland into 2 speeds, according to which in Warsaw cases would quickly be expert, and in a country where there is similar harm, because there is no difference in harm, there would be a delay only because perhaps the media... Well, it's the committee itself. As you have noted and as has been said here, this is the subject of the amendment, as I have already said, of the President who is elected as a result of the agreement of his fellow ministers... I hope it won't be another Misiewicz, but it will be a man. As I say, as everyone here is in charge At least he will have legal qualifications, if not the highest qualifications, if he is to touch the Supreme Court's ruling. If that's the case, Minister, I understand... The Lord says it's an administration and Well, let's see. President of the city of Bydgoszcz He's not a lawyer either. But you say in art. 29 pcs 2, which I've already told you he can As it is written exactly, to impose in important decisions, the most important, legal views. Well, that's ridiculous. How can a non-qualified person impose legal views? It is true that such a concept exists, but in the Code of Criminal Procedure, perhaps in the article. 442. But this applies to the criminal code, and this legal view is imposed down by lawyers, judges, not a man who knows about real estate. I think I know about real estate because I've already sold or bought one apartment and I've had a lot of problems with it, including legal. So it's just a funny record, and it makes this committee funny, which isn't legal, but it's supposed to have legal views. I mean, aside from all the different commissar arrangements... To pay this, it is not known how much, on what basis, without knowing what the criteria are, what to follow, how to take, and how to impose a penalty on it, because he did not arrive at the age of 100 for the sitting. Because the bill says you have to come to this committee in person. There is, of course, a legal plea raised by all as to the fact that the Commission's decisions and decisions to initiate proceedings are vox populi, made public. Yes, indeed one of the articles of the Code of Administrative Procedure Yeah, I think so. It says that it is possible to announce, but only if the parties cannot be informed effectively, and only when it concerns universal issues, e.g. mobilisation. It's hard to direct everyone... Although technology has gone a long way today. Foot-and-mouth disease. It is difficult for all hosts to call for an effective procedure. Or other activities... But here we are dealing with cases already established in the file where the party received something or was taken from it, so it can, at least as far as the address is concerned, be found. [[Mr. Senator, come slowly to the end.]] Yes. And yet the matter which I must raise, and which state you will lift from the right, because the people are sitting not only in the Seym, but also in the Senate, and even supposedly our mandate is greater... [[Time.]] Mr. Senator, you're talking nonsense on TV. Listen to me. [[But time's up.]] [[But, Senator...]] Mr. Senator Jackowski, I appeal to you because you represent almost all the Poles there already. There are no senators in this committee. This is a break-up of the custom, according to which in general senators occur, although in a simplified way, as members of such bodies. And that's where I end up... [[Thank you...]] ...with this call and a smile to Senator Jackowski to support this amendment. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u257	Thank you, Senator. Is that an amendment? [[Yes, I'm making an amendment.]] Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u258	I think the senator left help, which means it's gone. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If it were 25 years ago, I wouldn't be surprised that we were thinking about such a bill, because then we didn't really know how the rule of law was supposed to work and we had to learn it. At that time it was not yet entirely clear, as in independent Poland, who is responsible for what, that the prosecution is responsible for investigating reports and suspicions of committing a crime, and the courts are against these suspicions to verify and to rule on someone's guilt or innocence. Then, and for the last 25 years, there have been lively expectations of justice against those who were wrongfully taken away in the 1940's. And this need for justice was at the heart of both the reprivatization law, the one that was vetoed by President Kwasniewski in 2002 and the subsequent approach to reprivatization, which took place in 2002 is a fresh history of ours. In 2015, at the initiative of our group, the Law on Warsaw Lands was passed, i.e. the Law on small reprivatisation. Its task was to end spontaneous or, as others say, wild reprivatization, which was supposed to satisfy the sense of justice. And there's no doubt that every muddy water leads to a free American woman. We therefore know at the moment what was the scale of both the irregularities and the likely crimes that occurred during this wild reprivatisation. But the answer to such cloudy water should be a law respecting the legal order of the Republic of Poland. It should be a constitutional law that no one has changed. It should be a law in which the judicial authorities exercise the functions assigned to them by the relevant laws. The Civic Platform recently proposed a parliamentary committee to investigate the process of reprivatization in Warsaw. This is indeed the matter for such a committee of inquiry and, like the former committees of inquiry in previous terms of the Sejm, the same and now, alongside the committee in the Amber Gold case, could be set up a committee of inquiry. The PiS state rejected this proposal. Last year there was also a proposal for a large reprivatisation law that would generally regulate the problem of reprivatisation across the country. Well, the Sejm committee voted negative only to create a gateway to the swift introduction and conduct by the Sejm and by the Senate of this experiment that we are dealing with right now. It must be made clear that you did not want a committee of inquiry or a large act of reprivatization, but you want to create on the basis of an experiment a kind of folk tribunal, which in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland simply does not belong, which does not respect the three divisions of power and which does not recognise the powers belonging to individual judicial authorities. These three main disadvantages are the project's burden. It's an administrative body, but an investigative authority, which is a prosecutor's authority. It is also part of the committee of inquiry that we know from the Sejm, because its sittings will be public and will have access to them by the public. Finally, it is an institution with judicial competence, even because it will be able to issue decisions on the return of the equivalent of the benefits or the return of the property which has been unlawfully taken over. This is a crazy dangerous precedent. This is a precedent, which I will say once again undermines the competences that individual judicial authorities have. And aside from what I mentioned earlier, which means that it does not belong in the Polish Constitution, it should be... In fact, it could be classified as a state of emergency. Yeah, it's gonna be a state of emergency committee. This committee, as intended, would suspend the proceedings... and the proceedings conducted by the courts. Will this speed up the handling of the case? No. I think it will slow down, and it can also paralyze legal proceedings. This one example shows a gap between the public intentions and the possible consequences of the adoption of this law. It's the same with immunity. It's not like this is about I will quote the Minister what protection against organized criminal groups, only for exemption from liability, for life exemption from the responsibility of those who will make decisions as members of such a committee. ♪ Don't let your eyes wash away ♪ This is not about protection. If this is really about protecting those who make difficult decisions, personal protection should be introduced and members of this committee should be protected from the possible actions of the criminal group and not release their responsibility, which they should bear for their decisions. This committee will not have a specific scope of time for its work, and as far as the future is concerned... The Commission will work indefinitely, which is a drawback of this solution. I would like to remind you that even the CSI Review Committee had a clear mandate, a clearly defined working time: until June 2008. There is also no specific period of time backwards, and therefore the committee will be able to deal with any proceedings, will be able to verify any proceedings carried out, will make an arbitrary, statutory choice, and that means a legal theatre with which we will be dealing. Finally, undermining the principle of bi-instance means the arbitraryness of the decision already mentioned, means that there is no possibility of appeal. If this arbitraryness is combined with immunity and the integrity of the members of the committee, it can be said that it will be the only body in the Republic that is supposed to be infallible. And yet according to the doctrine Not with a secular but with a church Only the Pope is infallible in his decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u259	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The essence of the reprivatization scandal in Warsaw is to create a political umbrella by some politicians for organized crime activities. A group of lawyers, officials and businessmen used loopholes in the law and one of the biggest negligence of the Third Polish Republic in the socio-economic area, i.e. the absence of a reprivatization law clearly defining the principle of return, and thus could develop a pathological practice called wild reprivatization. Since 2001, the Ministry of Treasury has already paid over PLN 2 billion from the reprivatization fund. In Warsaw itself These are data from a month and a half ago, so they may no longer be fully up to date with more than 3.5 thousand property recovery proceedings. Of these 118 apply to land under schools, nursery schools and kindergartens. The cost of more than 3.5 thousand ongoing damages proceedings is estimated at billions of zlotys. Only in 2014 and 2015 did Warsaw receive PLN 720 million from the Ministry of Treasury for the execution of decree claims. Interestingly, associations of former owners estimate that the value of claims on a national scale could be at least PLN 70 billion. Poland is the only state of the former communist block which has not prepared a reprivatization bill. [[And the GDR?]] They have regulations, among others. Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Lithuania, Germany and Bulgaria. In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the former owner or heir asked the current owner of the real estate to return it, and he himself was to reimburse the expenditure. If the current owner did not wish to give up the property voluntarily, the decision was taken by the court and compensation was paid only if the property could not be returned in kind. In the former GDR, Mr. Senator, the previous owners of companies could count on their return if they were able to ensure their effective operation. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] Reprivatisation was not subject to a nationalised property in the Soviet occupation zone between 1945 and 1949. Former owners received bonds that could have been carried out after 2004. Nor have objects for public use been returned, i.e. schools, hospitals and kindergartens. Poland will not escape the topic of reprivatization He will continue to return, even in 50 years' time, because in the doctrine of property claims are not subject to statute of limitations. It's worth remembering. It was a big mistake that at the beginning of the changes in the system it was not possible to implement the laws that solved this problem and put ownership in order. Why was there no reprivatisation in Poland after 1989? First of all, for political and economic reasons. Part of the so-called The elite of the III Polish Republic did not want to lead to the creation of these elites, which previously, as a result of Communists' actions, were deprived of their property. There were supposed to be new elites. I agree with these opinions that the verification committee is a specific measure, but the situation is also specific: we are dealing with a combination of circumstances. I'll remind you what Senator Klich mentioned, but you mistook the date because not in 2002. Alexander Kwasniewski vetoed... Previously, during the AWS coalition The Union of Freedom, during the third term of the Sejm and the fourth term of the Senate's term of office, was adopted by a reprivatization law, the only law that was adopted, which passed the entire path in parliament. It was vetoed by Aleksander Kwasniewski, which indirectly as a side effect, I do not know whether intended or not It opened up the possibility of an uncontrolled so-called. wild reprivatisation. The apogee of wild privatisation problems we've had lately. It will soon be a year since the publication of the famous text in the Wyborcza Gazeta, which has widely promoted this problem and brought the public's attention to it. Wild reprivatisation might not have taken place if it had not been for the activity of representatives of the legal world, I have already omitted lawyers here, one of them, a prominent Warsaw attorney has been detained, but perhaps also some courts taking part in the whole proceeding. Today we hear from people who are somewhat responsible for wild reprivatisation, at least politically, that the review committee is the wrong solution. The question arises: what other solution? In fact, are we not dealing with something called crocodile tears to prevent the creation of a verification commission so that, in fact, what has already happened is stuck to eternal things of remembrance? What about the fact that human harm has become that fundamental principles of justice have been violated, that there has been a system of special links between certain officials or former officials of the capital city of Warsaw, businessmen, representatives of the legal world, that trade in claims has flourished, this market has developed and a whole range of various phenomena of a criminal nature, certainly pathological, about which the media were writing about? At the moment, the prosecution's work is being carried out in this area, the operations of the Central Anti-corruption Office are being carried out, and we hear announcements that there will be further detentions. Thus, the whole matter on the legal side requires special action, and so I take the initiative to set up a verification committee, which is more important in terms of its competence than the committee of inquiry in the Sejm. The committee of inquiry in the Sejm, yes, has very much competence and capacity, but it does not have as far-reaching powers as the review committee has. Right now, it's a request for a committee of inquiry only... In fact, it is an action for a new thick line, because it will be said: okay, what was, it was, we are at point zero, from that point on, there will be no such irregularities, because we will seal the law and we will not allow such situations. That is why I do not agree with these voices that this law cannot be passed because it is such a special action. Well, it's a special action because of the particular situation that has arisen at the moment. In fact, all the evaluations that she's gonna be able to do, how it's gonna work, whether it's good or bad... In my opinion, these concerns are exaggerated because much of the returns Of the several thousand returns made in Warsaw's capital city, it was carried out in accordance with mandatory regulations and rules of law. But there is undoubtedly a group of such proceedings that may raise doubts, and which we already know today, that they were most likely either in violation of the law, or e.g. on the basis of forged documents, or through any other irregularities... And selecting from this general directory those phrases that were made... And by the way, in this whole debate, you don't say, for example. that during the time of President Marcin Święcicki 700 returns were made in Warsaw, and that was half of the 1990s. So this process lasted over 20 years, and we don't know if the 700 phrases that were made at the time weren't like that. We don't know that, so we can't talk about it. That is why it seems necessary to support this law, but it does not exempt us from the obligation to take it, I say, "nas" in the sense of: the Polish state of "reprivatization" law, which would fully regulate the issues of ordering the state of ownership in Poland, because otherwise we will put aside problems for the next generations and maybe they will grow even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u261	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Michael Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I must start again with the fact that the common inspiration for my speech is the polemic swade of Senator Borowski and a certain attractiveness of his reasoning which leads to polemicism. And it has often been so that there have been repeated accusations, some criticisms, which had previously been made out of this bleacher. So I allow myself briefly to answer polemicly on certain wordings. I will start with what was most thought out to me in the initial statement of Senator Borowski, which I understood in such a way that we here are making a bill which will mean bringing justice without law. Well, I guess that's a logical misunderstanding. We're running the bill here, she's the law. It is through this law, or through the law, that we will come to the desired state of justice. So this isn't justice outside the law. I think that's logical. This bill, which we are talking about, is to be a remedy for this established lawlessness, which Senator Jackowski mentioned in such details, I will not repeat. I agree, from a legislative point of view, this law could be better. And that was what we said at the Human Rights Committee meeting, and that was mentioned at the Legislative Commission, and, moreover, several dozen amendments were tabled in the Senate. The Commission has accepted some of these amendments, and today we are proposing additional amendments, i.e. the Senate, to improve this law as far as possible. There's no perfect setup. This is the conclusion from my rich legislative life story. Even the best bill after a while, when you take it in hand, it appears to us as one that can be improved. So we will improve it as far as possible. This committee referred to in the Act is a unique concept. That's the truth. But it is about fulfilling a certain task, achieving a certain goal, which is unusual, is unique. Just because it's about bringing justice back to people who are just, you know, getting old. Time's ticking. If they were to resume the procedure normally, as I asked the Minister at the committee meeting, there is no doubt that many people could not achieve this objective. We must act by unusual means, so I understand this committee as an unusual means of restoring justice. Some of the senators from the opposition benches said it was some kind of state of emergency. Let's be tight. I understand a certain polemic fervor, a certain exaggeration that the opposition party can always use in their statements. But at some point you have to go down to the point of legal logic, correct thinking, and say that it's not about a law that suspends citizens' rights. Moreover, it is not about a law that would be prosecuted in some extraordinary non-professional mode. It is a law which is a normal manifestation of the legislative process. So don't talk about emergency states. This is very blooming and captivating people who are not taught in the law term, but it has nothing to do with reality. It is also said that the committee will issue judgments. Well, that's not accurate, either. The Commission is not a court. The Commission is an administrative body and will make decisions as such. But yes, it is. Maybe I'll surprise you. The issuing of administrative decisions by bodies which are not courts, that is also justice, is also the ruling of justice, so in this sense there is a similarity between the administrative procedure and the judicial process. We need to remember that's what it is. But the most important thing is this. We all asked that at the Human Rights Committee meeting, almost all of us, all of us were interested in it. That the operation of this committee will be supervised by the court. In court proceedings, everything will ultimately be settled. So where are the emergency states? There will be a final judgment of the court, and it will be an independent judgment of the court. I understand the polemic fervor of journalists who are ready to write every day about how this dramatic ruling party is trying to suppress and suppress the independence of the courts. The elders in this room remember when it really was when the sentences were dictated by the phone. But I think you will agree that no one has ever heard of such a judgment and has not quoted such a judgment in our Third Republic, which would be dictated to the judge in the ear or in any other way, so that he cannot rule in an independent manner. It is possible to criticize those or other intentions of change and the way in which changes are made in the justice system that the government announces, but I can honestly say that I have not heard of any such case, so that the judge cannot state what he believes is right and consistent with his conviction and law. I think that's the essence of judicial independence. And we're gonna have judges like that who are gonna rule on these cases if there's such a thing as dealing with a case in a court of law. All I'm gonna say about the reprivatization bill is that it's too bad she's not here. I also watched how, for various reasons, but mostly economic, it was not possible to approve it. But, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, in these cases, which have already been settled unfairly in matters of reprivatization It won't help. She could be a panacea for cases that haven't been pending yet, which are just about to be mentioned. Justice will apply to those who have not yet applied for their rights. So this is about dealing with cases that have already been closed, put in a drawer, and where it turns out that many people have suffered, in general, the consequences of injustice. And once again, Mr. Senator Borowski... Forgive me, sir, I hope you don't take this as an inelegant speech on my part, but I must conclude by referring to your thought that this entire bill is not intended to bring justice to justice, but it has a political purpose. Well, I have to tell you very frankly that I have been teaching students for years that every bill has a political purpose, in the sense that the bill is a way of implementing a political agenda by a party that rules and rules because the voters have given this party a mandate to rule. Yeah, like that. It's a political bill. Everyone we make here is political. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u263	Thank you. Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Senator Sewerinski's speech is always an intellectual challenge. [[But you can quit.]] The senator tells me you can quit. With all due respect, Senator Severinski, I'm not giving up, but thank you for the hint. Senator Klich spoke about the committee of inquiry, the idea of its appointment was rejected by the parliamentary majority. Why is this rejection important? Well, the Sejm Investigation Commission is checking the functioning of the state authorities. It answers the question of whether these authorities are dealing with the problems that are being addressed. We have a model that usually works. We have a D.A.'s office looking into something, most often based on materials provided by the service. If there are irregularities, there is a crime, then the prosecution will file an indictment in court, and the court will judge it in a constitutional manner. The charge of setting up such a body, not another body, in the form of this committee we are talking about today, is that the committee that is to be set up really replaces these two bodies to a large extent. I am surprised because today I listened to four colleagues, lawyers from Law and Justice, with whom I very often agree, who very often, as I did in my previous term of office... Here I look at your patron, Senator Silence... In my previous term, I have often criticised the actions of the majority of Parliament's Civic Platform, when certain solutions that came to this House were not in line with the standards, and, frankly, I also expected that, with solutions that raise such constitutional controversy, on the other hand, there will also be some reflection that there is nothing on the political altar to put in place certain solutions which, overturned, cause the entire building of justice to be challenged. Of course you can say... And that's what we're dealing with today. In fact, we're debating in the shadow of what's going on around the president of the Supreme Court. We are dealing with the next step in destroying this building, the first step was the destruction of the Constitutional Tribunal. I believe that what can be achieved within this committee, which is undoubtedly something to be achieved, because it is very possible that this committee will pick up several or several irregularities. What's hitting me? I would like to draw attention to this dissonance, which results from the report by Senator Cichoń and from the report by Senator Pęk, and from what Senator Jackowski just said here. The rapporteurs of the two committees spoke of a devastating scale of irregularities, of some unlikely number of irregularities. I haven't heard of a single example... I mean, I haven't heard of a few dozen or several hundred irregularities. We know from press enunciations several or several. And that's what Senator Jackowski said today, who knows these issues for two reasons. First of all, it was always on his heart as a representative of people or in some sense a man in a circle of people who, on the basis of Bierut's decree, lost their property and at the same time as a man who always took care of Warsaw. He said exactly the opposite of what you said. There were dozens of these cases and they need to be clarified, but there is no doubt that most of the recovery decisions were taken in accordance with the law. Now I would like to go back to what the Supreme Court's opinion is saying that there is no basis Contrary to what was in the explanatory memorandum of the Law to such extraordinary solutions. I would also like to draw the attention of my colleagues to this Of course, it's been said before. However, in accordance with Article 12 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are compatible with the internal market and that they are compatible with the internal market and that they are compatible with the internal market and that they are compatible with the internal market. 10... I'm sorry, Art. 145 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, what is in this Act, coincides with what is in There is an institution for reopening proceedings. The question arises as to why we should process this law if we have it in the legal order. Why do we accept certain solutions? After all, one of the first decisions was to submit the Minister of Justice to the prosecution. Is this why the Minister wants to tell us today that, despite a year and a half, this prosecutor's office is powerless? You can't... Are you really so weak that you can't handle it? Do you have to create a committee? Why wasn't this solved by the D.A.'s office? Why is it that if there is an institution to reopen administrative proceedings and you have such appalling information, the prosecution has not initiated the reopening of such proceedings? That's what's available today. [[Mr. Senator, would you please...]] Sorry, two sentences. Second question. Why... It was raining here. It is absolutely outrageous in this law that on the basis of the article. 6 and Article 6 39 (4) is excluded the responsibility of those who will take very serious decisions. And it's not immunity on this principle, as in the case of parliamentarians, that we can out of this tribune without fearing responsibility for our words, which is often abused... Anyway, we may not be afraid, and we may say some things, but here are administrative decisions. Why don't you write that the judges of the administrative tribunal for their own decisions in court are exempt from any liability, compensation, punishment? I mean, you could write that down. Why will this authority making administrative decisions be released? Why this one, not another one, if you think this committee is just, just like I just heard from my fellow senators, some other body that's going to be dealing with a very serious problem? I mean, it can be equalized. About the art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 points 4 and 5, it seems to be a gateway to the fact that there are only politicians on this committee. Can we say to ourselves today that it will certainly be lawyers who, in an uninvolved way, will be impartial in judging these situations? Will only politicians be there? Because putting it that way, that each one of them... [[Senator, if you'll excuse me, please...]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. ...will be placed at the Ministry of Justice, indicating that it will be a political body. I don't see the kind of impartiality we can expect from such a committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u265	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am chatty, maybe very much in this matter, but it is not my fault, it is the speech of the Minister, the government with this initiative, and in this debate he even joined, in my opinion in an unjustified manner, Professor Seweryński, who said that what we are doing is the law. It is the law, the decree of Bierut and the next on the fight against speculation and abuse, Professor, issued under the conditions of the government and the Pluralist Sejm. I would remind you that at the time the Deputy Prime Minister was Mikołajczyk, or at least he was fulfilling these obligations. I don't remember being in martial law either. At least there are no studies on this subject. Jaruzelski or some other military commissioner called the judge and told him what he was going to do. I don't mean to say that there's pressure on prosecutors, but... now the world is smarter, Professor, because you don't call a judge, that judge just removes itself in legal terms, by means of laws, as it happens during the renovation, lifting of the Court. I would like to respond positively, Minister, to your call for... my colleague, Senator Pociej, to start talking about it. Why don't you use the instruments and offices that exist? I mean, it's art. 154 c.p.a. lets you touch all your decisions and those which have legal force and those which do not have legal force because they may not have legal force. Next: the Minister himself may repeal the decisions of a public institution. You're fighting for it because it's supposed to be different investigations... Your superior may at any time request a change of decision, he may participate in an important social interest... And finally you can say, okay, but the PO government minister, as Senator Jackowski suggests, has made a decision... Who's gonna take her away? Well, another article says that the Minister's objection to a decision As I understand it, the Minister of PO brings in the Attorney General. And I'd like to know if, among other things. That's the kind of decision he's already made. What's my point? Well, if you want to be Judge Falcone, I don't mind. Let him simply install additional staff, lawyers and this process in his ministry. There are no obstacles. The opposition even... I declare that I will adopt an additional budget for this kind of work. What are we gonna avoid? We avoid an additional level, avoid additional costs and avoid the indeterminateness of this so-called. the committee. There's another question. The Professor, unfortunately, urged me to ask you a question. I understand that in law, in doctrine everything is correct, but certain issues are not only legal abstract, but also physical dimension. Do you believe that the establishment of an 8-person committee will solve what has not been solved by previous governments or current governments so far? Is this a way of introducing democracy or the rule of law in Poland? The appointment of special committees in conditions where our country exists for 30 years is fully organised It's not Luxembourg or San Marino. All the services from the Ombudsman, through the ministries, to the courts of all levels and all possibilities, have a legal instrument... You, Professor, offer us a shortcut, that is, a special committee. This is the last, penultimate, polemic sentence: I disagree with your statement when you say that all laws are political. I have the pleasure and satisfaction of working with you and other colleagues in the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. And when we apply for a law on the protection of the tenant's rights It's about the so-called. Cleaning of tenements I say that my participation in the work of the committee was not political, it was a reference to natural rights, to rights already established for millennia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u267	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank Senator Severinski for honoring me with his polemics. Maybe I'll be immodest, but I'll say I won't have much difficulty with the feedback. Well, there's been a little bit of that going on. You said: "What justice is this outside the law, since this law is the law. But this bill violates the constitution. That's where we start. On this basis, every law is a law and we should therefore not oppose it. If we come up with a law in which we write that we're introducing preventive censorship, I don't think the senator is gonna say it's all legal, because there's a law. So you can't go on like this. This bill, according to very competent bodies... And this is not the first time, Mr. Senator, because you know that there have already been dozens of laws that have had devastating opinions about constitutionality, but every time we hear from you that these are just opinions that you can have different views. Well, on that basis, you can take anything. Secondly, you say that the idea is to restore justice, to make amends to those who age, to wait, to suffer various losses, to suffer, and so on. Okay, this has to be done, but, Senator, have you read this bill well? Because when it comes to restoring justice, for example. for compensation for these people, because this is mainly how it is supposed to be done, it is said that these people will apply for compensation. But these compensations are to be paid exclusively from benefits income which will be paid to the capital city of persons who have unlawfully acquired different properties and who, for various reasons, can no longer be taken away from these properties; they will have to pay. So the mechanism is this: we take it from it and we spend it on damages. The question is, when do we get this from them? Because you, Mr. Senator, are saying there's already a judicial review. I would like to say that the judicial review is as follows: first there is a complaint against the same committee, then to the provincial administrative court, then to the Supreme Administrative Court. These two courts are primarily guided by the assessment of the legality of the decision and the legality of the decision will be based on this law. As for the substance, either this subject or this person will have to go to a court of law later. And she'll go every time, ladies and gentlemen, whether she's right or not. Every time the committee decides to pay or give it back, it's gonna go through that path I was talking about, starting in administrative court, and then it's gonna go to general court. First of all, it's not so obvious how it's gonna end. Perhaps the court will rule in a completely different way from the committee. And second of all, And that's what's important. There's no money, no money is affecting the account. It's gonna take years. Therefore, there is some unnecessary hope for these people, since they must apply for money within 30 days of the decision of the committee. They're gonna show up and then they're gonna wait years. If they wanted to meet their expectations, the system would look different. Because a fund would be created for this purpose, money would be paid out as soon as possible, i.e. of course, after assessing how much is due to whom and for what This is a separate problem, which is not understood at all here, and it also raises serious doubts. And only after how many years would that fund be affected by those amounts if the courts were to judge them. That's how it's supposed to be. Then these people would actually be helped, and so are the pears on the willow, also when it comes to the court control mentioned here. As far as the reprivatization bill is concerned, you said that you also regret that it is not there, but that will not give justice to those people who have been harmed. Okay. Only reprivatization processes continue to take place, as not in Warsaw, in other parts of Poland. So? Are we about to appoint another committee elsewhere to investigate further irregularities? This law should be adopted as soon as possible. I will tell you more, this project appeared in the Seym, it was a project of the Civic Platform, quite sensible, of course, to be improved, to be discussed, but the Seym did not even deal with it, because the majority of governments did not want to deal with it. Yeah, she'd even make that gesture and take care of it. No. So, basically, I mean... And now we're going to the final point. Like you said, every bill has a political purpose. No, Mr. Senator. Each law is an expression of government policy if it has been brought forward by this government, of course. It's an expression of his politics, it's quite clear. But what else is an expression of a government policy that wants to change that or that, and what else is a strict political goal calculated to oppress a political opponent. [[Thank you, Senator...]] I'm almost done. I'm done. I'm done. Therefore, all these elements I mentioned here show whether or not it was known That the objectives set out in this Act will not be fulfilled or will be achieved in 4 and 5 years, and immediately the political objective I have been talking about will be pursued, because this committee is working openly, its members have immunity, they can say what they want, they can call anyone a thief, and that someone will not be able to complain about a violation of their personal rights. Therefore, unfortunately, from all these elements, and not all of them I mentioned, it follows what I said: it is to be a hammer against a political opponent. So I'll be honest with you, if we want to fight a political opponent, it's not by such populist methods, because I don't think you think it's fair either.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u269	Thank you, Senator. Senator Marek Pęk will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First, for some sort of order... We hear a lot of criticism here, we hear a constantly recurring charge of the unconstitutionality of this law, so I will repeat the thought that I have already expressed at the committee's meeting: the unconstitutional is above all the factual and legal situation that this law is trying to remedy. Senator Pociej is so optimistic about the scale of this phenomenon, but I think I'm getting some other information. The scale of this phenomenon, the involvement in this illegal activity of both the highest officials in Warsaw and the representatives of the justice system, the extent of these damages, and in the wealthy sense, and the numbers, are enormous. The case is therefore exceptional and, once again, the measures should be exceptional. And so much for the law itself, because I would just like to say a few words in a digressive way. It seems to me that this debate is some kind of repetition of the debates that we have been having here for over a year. We're different about the diagnosis. We give such a diagnosis that when it comes to justice, the fight against crime, the functioning of our legal system, it functions badly in many aspects, it is deeply distorted, it is in a deep crisis. It is as if you do not see these phenomena, or if you see them, that every time the point of your statements is that, basically, some legalism that you represent, respect for a certain status quo in terms of law, prevents any form. It's an innovative move. I mean, we have a system that, from the point of view of the formal structure, is consistent with the constitution, in line with standards, with various guarantees, division of power, guarantees of independence, independence, well, there are many of those canons of legal knowledge that are quoted here... But in our view, this legalism de facto becomes a kind of legal opportunism. I mean, the final is always the same: we remain in the same enchanted circle of phenomena, deeply pathological, with which nothing can really be done. Because speaking in harmony with the constitution, in harmony with all these canons, means leave it the old way. Leaving the problem of reprivatization abuse to the justice system in Warsaw, well, did not solve this problem. It is precisely the problem that both the highest administrative authority in Warsaw and all the mechanisms in the judicial hierarchy, disciplinary supervision, internal control They do not lead to any healing mechanisms. Any attempt to mobilise, whether through the activities of journalists, or through media activities, various types of victims' associations, encounter great opposition from the legal community, which every attempt at reform takes as a frontal attack on their independence, on their status, on their particular role in a democratic society. This power is basically out of control. This is how today's system works, including the constitutional one. In fact, we have some kind of stalemate here, some kind of blockage. - What's You can't do that. I think this case is really worth thinking about. Senator Cichoń quoted a quote from one of the lawyers at our committee meeting. Perhaps I will not repeat it exactly now, but the main thought was something like this: we wanted justice, we have the right. That's where we're going with this. It is possible, within the framework of a democratic legal state, to create a deeply pathological arrangement that defends itself by referring to the most noble ideas, that it cannot actually be touched at all. And that's the problem. This problem is very deep. As much as I am educated in the history of law, in the philosophy of law, in the theory of law. I was actually quite interested in these issues in college. I know that the genesis of the modern canon of the system of law is that he grew up on the trauma of totalitarianism, both Nazi and communist, and the particular role of legal doctrine was to build a certain system of guarantees: guaranteeing independence of division of power. There was such a feeling that creating such a perfect... It is so convinced that the creation of such an ideal system will eliminate pathologies and will be a perfect solution. Very fast, because in a dozen or so years In Poland over a dozen years, as our contemporary history shows, it turned out that it was not enough to convert totalitarianism into democracy to disappear deeply pathological phenomena in the field of justice. Corruption has not disappeared, and it has happened that, I would say, certain forms of crime have developed. And with these new forms of crime, so-called crime. White collars, organised crime, crime of the highest officials, negligence and crime in the area of justice With all these problems, today's system is getting worse and worse. And that's what you have to remember. This is not some obsession with the Law and Justice, the desire to bring Stalinism back here is, in my opinion, a more realistic and more sober look at the pathologies of the modern justice system, the political system also in our young democracy. In conclusion, I would like to say that this situation really requires a lot of deeper reflections, some novelty of action, some courage, some detachment from very rigid canons, which may be noble, grow out of good motives, but unfortunately they do not work well. I was reminded literally at this point by a quote from one of my textbooks in theory or from the philosophy of law that came from, like, 120 or 130 years ago... One of the philosophers, German, wrote about lawyers in a very unflattering way that a lawyer like a worm I think he used that phrase. Who crawls in a sick tree, turns away from the healthy, and feeds on the sick. Well, there's a lot of truth in the fact that the justice system is sometimes very far from its noble mission and needs to be helped back to its ideals. In a democratic country, there is no other option than through the most democratic bodies elected by parliaments in general elections, to try to create mixed instruments, i.e. I'm sure it's a political one, but which, in fact, is going to make justice right. And I think that's the main role of this bill. I'm sure there's an assessment of its functioning ahead of us, but let's at least let it start, exist and try to deal with the phenomena that this standard, eternally satisfied justice system has completely failed to deal with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u271	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Waldemar the Member State.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u272	High Izbo! I'll say I didn't listen to Senator Borowski's speech and I don't regret it. I listened to Senator Sewerinski's speeches. If I understand correctly, Senator Borowski's statement states that we want to bring justice without law. I would like to tell Mr. Borowski and, like him, who thinks that the times of lawless justice are over some time ago. Yesterday we were celebrating a day of solid soldiers. According to those minions, they were given justice. No law. Ubecja did it at the request of native communists installed by Moskali. That was the time when, according to the course of their reasoning, this justice without the law. It's over, fortunately. I would also like to refer to Senator Pociej's statement. I'm gonna say maybe two sentences, because Senator Pop is a scientist, professionally, because he's a lawyer, and he said all that stuff that I wouldn't say, because I'm not a lawyer. I will tell Senator Pociej: you would be right to say, why create this law, why create this law, this committee, if the justice system were to function properly in Poland. And how did it work? It's not like there's never been a mirror in the justice system, and then this demoralization over the last eight years of your government has shown... If the D.A.'s office and the courts were working properly, it wouldn't be Amber Gold. We've seen it now on this committee... This committee showed the Poles how it worked. Same thing about the courts and prosecutors you said they should be involved in. That's what I think. And if they were normal courts, they should be dealing with it. But what? Warsaw courts? The D.A.'s office? If lawyers, attorneys, and prosecutors were involved in these hostile, thieving privatizations, too? And we don't have... We have the same justice system, the same judges still work, most of the same prosecutors still work. We can't turn their wand 180 degrees away. We've only been in power for a year, and in order to fix this system, it would take a generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u273	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite my sincere sympathy, I can't quite agree with what Senator Pięk said, that the situation is... Because you started by saying that the situation is unconstitutional. No, this situation is constitutional. We have one, not another right. We've said many times that it's a right to reprivatise... It was in the previous term. And we tried to change it. Among other things, Senator Borowski and I introduced... And it's been accepted, we've blocked pathology in a lot of cases. We offered to block it. We gave the tool and... Senator, you weren't there, but the Law and Justice have abstained or voted against it. And there was a record that daycare, schools can't be returned. We gave you a tool like that. And in my opinion, this is an action that would prevent this pathology. It's straight... And it's not... That's where I absolutely agree with you. You talked about it, and there's no difference between us. No one has blocked the action until the end. Why don't we have a pathology associated with mysterious property? Because we were forced to make this bill. And it's over. Have you heard that since the adoption of the law on property, there's been a problem with property? No, it's settled and it's over. There's no trade, there's no poles, there's no such thing. And the fact And here it's 100%. I admit you're right. No... But that's what you were talking about first: that no crew ever made it right. But the logical consequence of what you said, that no crew has ever done anything about it, should be that we should just clean it up, not the committee. What difference does this committee make? It's not like there's even half a record that this committee could offer anything positive to block these pathologies. Unsolvable in the Polish People's Republic was the problem of thinners. And all you had to do was fill in the cans. Instead, they were sticking to pathology and former committees that were chasing these mincers. And what was the result? Everyone was trading currency. Now... After all, today, just before that point, we were wondering... We have as the first point a law amending the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. What did everyone who did this say in turn? The scale of extortion is shocking. The problem of privatisation in absolute numbers in Warsaw is a little bit compared to how people cheat the Social Insurance Institution. Why didn't you offer there... why didn't you offer the committee there, just give the tool? You have proposed solutions under the bill. What's the difference? You raised the problem of the communist system, you raised the problem of the fascist system. I didn't want to talk about it, but tell me... The moment Hitler came to power, corruption in Germany was really reduced. Is that supposed to be an argument for us? I didn't bring it up. Which way are we going? We have very serious charges regarding the constitutionality of this bill. You can't walk over them like that. Once again, there's a building, it's all pretty coherent. If we start throwing, just to solve certain... And here I am going back to what we talked about earlier, what Senator Borowski was talking about. Some political solutions... I do not rule out that there will be some positive effects of all this. But the erosion of the entire system at the end will be tragic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u275	Thank you, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Indeed, in fact, if not for this digressive part of Senator Pęk's statement, I would probably leave the issue of reprivatisation in Warsaw by setting up this special committee for senators who are more connected with this city and these matters. But Mr. Senator, you've called, and you've already called Senator Seweryński, too, a discussion on absolutely basic matters, and I don't think it's possible to leave it like this. Indeed, I have spoken from the jury that these axiological bases, which you mentioned to Senator Pęk, are still valid. And, Mr. Senator, in my opinion, not mine, but many institutions, e.g. European, they are current in Poland right now. Prominent Polish lawyers, foreign lawyers, outstanding politicians, a game of global and European respect They all claim that these axiological bases of the legal system have been repeatedly violated in Poland by those, as you said, non-standard or innovative solutions that you want to introduce. They lead to the fact that these guarantees, which were at the heart of the legal system of the post-war countries of the European Union, democratic countries and which were intended to ensure the independence of the courts and the independence of judges, which were a response to totalitarian or authoritarian drives, are now challenged in the name of effectiveness. Yes, because it is often repeated here: so far the actions have proved ineffective, so we must do something extraordinary. Well, everyone agrees that the law is not as much to blame as it is to apply it. And it seems that if your actions were to move faster in order for sentences to be inevitable so that penalties are adequate to what is the offence, then indeed, while respecting the grounds that you are calling for today, we should get the right acceleration in dealing with matters that hurt so many people and that really require a response. But you could say jokingly, although a joke might not quite fit here: Cyril like Cyril, but these methods. This isn't the way. And I think it's worth looking at the effects of the action already taken. Can it be said responsibly today that the extraordinary measures taken here... i.e. the legal changes made in this room on Christmas Eve, New Year's Eve, have brought about the restoration of the Constitutional Tribunal? Can you look yourself in the eye and say, "Yes, this is the result we wanted to achieve?" This is ridiculous! And everyone sees that the state is precisely this axiological basis with regard to the highest judicial authority you have led to a situation that is scandalous. The whole world sees it. And the Minister is looking around like he's trying to show that he can't see it. So, ladies and gentlemen, the extraordinary measures you've shown us all and the entire legal world, which have already been used in other situations, have produced an extremely bad result. I'm afraid it'll be the same in this case. There will be a political hump under the cover of far-reaching, unprecedented immunity, and there will be no effectiveness in solving these cases. Mr. Marshal Borowski was talking about it, other people were talking about it. The litmus paper of your intention, the purpose of which it is supposedly about, i.e. to prevent pathologies in the field of reprivatization, is your attitude towards the reprivatization bill. The rejection of the Platform project compromises you, compromises your intentions and shows that this is not the case at all. That's why this project is going into a cycle that I've already mentioned here one by one. And now we have to add to it, and that bill that breaks the law and gives us unlimited power. We're still rediscovering the answer: why? I will agree with the statements that in this case it is a tool that can be used to oppress political opponents, but it is forgotten that the politicians of PiS with reprivatization did not cope when they co-organized in AWS, they did not manage when they ruled with self-defense, and they are not doing well today. Not at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u277	Thank you, Senator. I'd like you to take the floor of Senator Mark Knock.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Just a little bit. I'm a little surprised. Senator Pociej is no longer here, but I'm picking up his speech, very emotional... At the very end, he almost threw himself at me for daring me to say what I thought. Well, in this Senate, we're all just as free senators and we can say what we think. And that's probably the fundamental value of democracy. It's not just for the Senate to barbecue Senators of Law and Justice for 12 hours a day. That's one thing. Secondly, I will return again, calmly, to the essence of my speech. The law is the art of good and right. The Law is the permanent and unchangeable will to give to every man his dues, etc. etc. For 2,5,000 years Roman couples have been known to every lawyer. And these are the constant values. Justice and elementary honesty Which should be implemented primarily by the Constitution. And that's what I meant when I said that the state we found in Warsaw is deeply unconstitutional. And there are plenty of such phenomena in Poland. And the modern justice system can't deal with these things. And I'm surprised you're not getting this basic information and this basic diagnosis. I also said that the legal environments and the various judicial institutions are primarily concerned, especially in the last year, with defending their status quo and guaranteeing their complete independence from all functioning. There is no control over the judiciary. [[That's right.]] It's wrong. That's not constitutional, Senator. All other areas of power, executive power, legislative power are subject to very deep control, political control, electoral, social, financial, media control, etc. That is the problem that the justice system needs a very deep reform. And this reform is not gonna happen when we're still using the same instruments, because we're actually standing still. When we changed the D.A.'s office, there was a larum, too. Even allegations of unconstitutionality have been raised, although constitutionally the status of the prosecution has been regulated for many years, as it is today, with political dependence on the Minister of Justice, with political supervision. On the contrary, we are getting more and more information about the fact that this system is functioning more and more efficiently, and that is where this system has not been able to cope, where the prosecutor's office has not been able to handle it. Because this isn't about the effectiveness of justice against a common thief who's gonna steal a few candy. We're still talking about the most serious crimes, the most serious crimes, organized crime, crime, again, where the damage goes into millions, hundreds of millions, mafia crime, crime at the crossroads of politics. Business, etc. I believe that the rule of law and justice has finally taken this seriously, two and three to correct these phenomena. And sticking to us such cripples as if we wanted to introduce totalitarianism is deeply hurtful and deeply demagogical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u279	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Silence. Please... [[I'm sorry, because...]] The Minister will have the right to vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm not even gonna try to run out of time. I wanted to make a few comments because I did not want to abuse the role of rapporteur and combine with it my comments on this bill, and I took the liberty of making a few comments. E.g. The idea was to make it clear, in particular, about the powers of those who became victims of the so-called. Cleaners of tenements. I mean here the content of the article. 33, which provides that a person who has occupied the premises and has been deprived of the premises as a result of persistent unlawful interference through unlawful threats or other such acts, shall be entitled to compensation or redress. I believe that here we should replace the alternative with a conjunction, because otherwise there may be situations where the authority that is to decide on this issue will wonder whether it is to grant compensation or whether it is to grant compensation. Of course, if you assume that this is an alternative It's not separate, it's ordinary, it's one thing doesn't rule out another. But, ladies and gentlemen, worse yet, the end of the article. 33, which makes this decision about compensation or compensation dependent on whether it caused a significant deterioration in the material situation, i.e. that someone was deprived of this place to which he had previously had the right, seems very unfortunate to me. Because, first of all, it might indicate that this is really just about the compensation situation. Well, because the deterioration of the material situation is clearly a pity. And secondly, ladies and gentlemen, how does this apply to the compensation mentioned above? After all, reparation is not due to a deterioration of the material situation, but to the harm that man has suffered. That is why it is called "reparation," not "reparment of damage." That is why I propose that the final part of the article. 33, if this has led to a significant deterioration in its material situation, strike out and, where there is compensation or compensation, put the end to it. So that's the way it's supposed to be, both of them. And depending on what the outcome is... And as a rule, the effects will be double, because no doubt the result of someone being deprived of their apartment is that they have to rent an apartment elsewhere, usually at a higher price. So it's likely that there's going to be an effect in the form of property damage. However, you can imagine some completely unique situation when it doesn't occur. Then, of course, compensation wouldn't be appropriate. But no doubt, in any case, it will be appropriate to make amends. Because if anyone was, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of violence, or the rent increased to such limits. Of course above the limits provided for in Article. 8 Act on the protection of tenants, which is explicitly mentioned here This, ladies and gentlemen, was undoubtedly some suffering for such a man, because he was harmed. And that's what makes amends. That's why I'm making a proposal here. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, I also make a proposal to change the wording of the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1, paragraph 7, which provides that the committee shall issue a decision to revoke a decision already adopted, i.e. after the review of that reprivatisation decision, if the decision... This point reads: The re-privatization decision was issued despite the granting, on the basis of separate provisions, of a benefit in connection with the transfer of ownership of the property. I will admit that if I was not a lawyer who knew a little bit about this unfortunate decree and then about the agreements that the Polish Government had concluded with governments of various countries, especially the United States, Canada, where compensation was provided for those who lost their property rights, I would not know what this is about. Therefore, I propose that this wording be replaced by the following wording: "Reprivatisation decision has been issued despite the granting, on the basis of separate provisions or agreements, "I am referring to those agreements which I have mentioned, in particular with Canada, with the United States." This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, Because, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise, it's a question of what kind of witness we're talking about here, what this is about. Therefore, I believe that it would be necessary to put a dot over the "i" and to make it clear to everyone, not necessarily a lawyer, who also knows the history of all these acts of lawlessness to which the Bieruta decree belonged, and then such subsequent actions as to make everyone understand what this is all about. In turn, in the article. 37, in view of the fact that I propose with regard to Article. 4, so that there are 10 members of the committee, and not only 8, I suggest you delete the entire paragraph. 1, which provides that, as a result of a request for review by the committee, it is possible to rule in the same composition. It seems to me that such situations should be firmly prevented. The old rule that he should not judge the same case for the second time, or judge himself, is a principle which I believe deserves respect. That's why it's the art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 which contains a derogation from that principle and Article. 4, where I propose to introduce just 10 members so that there is no derogation from this rule. I have put this in writing and I support these amendments. As I say, I am by no means some apologist to this law, because I am aware that it is created in an emergency situation and uses extraordinary means, and, of course, the opinions among lawyers are divided as to whether this is acceptable or whether it is already exceeding certain limits. I happen to think that it was unfortunate that the reprivatization bill was not passed, we will not escape it, and I hope that a properly prepared reprivatization bill will soon be able to repeal this bill and, on the basis of the reprivatization law, to resolve all the issues, not only in Warsaw, but in Poland as a whole. And I hope it does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u281	Thank you, Senator. I hope so, too. Please take the floor of Mr. Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is such a mix-up with everything and, in fact, any article could be attached to it, but I would like to draw attention to the politicality of this bill... well, the chairman... Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of [[Senator, have you made any adjustments? Excuse me...]] [[Yeah, I put it together before recess.]] [[Good. There you go, Mr. Senator.]] The chairman of the committee is either Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice or at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. So it's not settled here, where the ministry, whether it's in this or this. We don't know why. But in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 5 was the provision that the members of the committee appointed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the date of appointment include the duties of Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice. So it was clear here that they were going to be State Secretarys at the Ministry of Justice so there wouldn't be any doubt. The amendment, which was tabled by the Senators of Law and Justice, reads: "Members... That's what this article's about. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 5 and to replace the previous version I read. Members of the Commission appointed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland shall carry out tasks relating solely to the exercise of their duties in the Commission. In other words, the Ministry of Justice is no longer mentioned, but it is said that they carry out tasks related solely to the exercise of their duties in committee. But the chairman does not, the chairman is subordinate and, in his case, there is no such provision, only members. Well, that's something, ladies and gentlemen, he's talking. Now on the qualifications, on this very important issue, which is essential knowledge in the field of real estate management. This is exactly how it is written: the necessary knowledge of real estate management. I'm asking you, in order to have the necessary knowledge, you really need a lot of experience. I can only on the basis of my own experience as, among other things. property assessor, qualified surveyor, for 8 years acting as the Wielkopolska Voivodeship, issuing these decisions, e.g. The property he was talking about... I can say, based on my experience, that this committee is certainly not going to do anything until the end of this term of office. There's no question about that. But it hurts me that the people who are to be on this committee may be people who have the necessary knowledge... What's that? Did he sell the lot? Maybe he bought a cut. Maybe that's enough. Well, he's got some knowledge, he's been to a notary, so he's got some knowledge he needs. There have been such powers. Minister Gowin has lifted it. The real estate broker, I have such powers too, so I can say that I have this knowledge, but I would not undertake to work in this committee, mainly because I do not have legal education and it is necessary. Mr. Marshal, I am making an amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 4, which reads: has a higher degree of legal education or the necessary knowledge in the management of immovable property and the use of State resources. My amendment is that in the sentence: he has a higher education in law... It says here: or necessary knowledge. My amendment is this: he has a higher education in law and the necessary knowledge. This record guarantees us that this person will not only be a lawyer, but will also have the knowledge needed to sit on such an important committee that will decide... This is about knowledge in the field of... It's not about someone for this person analyzing the documents or going to examine the eternal books. This must be done by an expert, so... I'm applying to replace the consistency with the consistency, because then there'll be no doubt about it. as regards the competence of the members of the committee. There you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I didn't date you, but I made an identical amendment. But that's good, you're welcome. [[I wasn't there... I wasn't there the whole time, Mr. Marshal, but I'm glad we feel the same way. Thank you very much.]] Yeah, okay. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Czesław Ryszka and Andrzej Kaminski made their speeches to the minutes. I inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński and Senator Piotr Florek once again. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister Jak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u284	Dear Marshal, High Senate! There have been many categories of charges here, I have tried to share all these allegations and I will try to convince the senators that many of them are allegations that are not found in this legal reality. At least a few senators have asked why this committee should be asked, since today's legal order allows administrative proceedings to be reopened. Here as the mantra returned art. 145 k.p.a., that's why I brought it. Excuse me, Article 154. This Article reads as follows: a final decision by which neither party has acquired the right may at any time be repealed or amended by the public administration which issued it if the social interest or legitimate interest of the party so justifies. What's the key here? The key is the organ that's gonna give it away. As a result, yes. That's what I've been talking about. The President of Warsaw's capital city has the right to do so. The problem is, he doesn't use it. Well, what's the big deal? This is the situation where an extraordinary public administration must be set up, because there is no other solution. There have already been enough opportunities for this legal situation to change. Well, High Senate, it is that a few months ago publicists, politicians said that when it comes to reprivatization, what happened has already happened, and we are not able to fix it. It could be said that everyone was almost in agreement with this state of affairs, with the fact that this is the case, and they pointed out solutions for the future, that we could think about what would happen in the future, i.e. I thought there might be a big reprivatization bill. A group of lawyers, experienced lawyers at the Ministry of Justice, wondered how to make the Polish state not lose this time, so that it would not be as many people wanted it to be the end to fight for justice, for this social interest and for this unjustly acquired property. On the basis of this, a new construction, the design of the verification commission, was actually created. Will it be effective? I said, High Senate, that she is already effective, because suddenly it turned out that the very creation of such a project causes that reprivatization decisions were no longer issued in Warsaw. May I? Yeah, you can. Suddenly a few people turned to law enforcement themselves: well, now we've remembered something. The president of Warsaw's capital city herself reported to the SKO that she had already remembered something, that there was something wrong with the building. Therefore, as you can see, this law already works wonders if you look at these practical dimensions of what we are interested in. But, High Senate, I will also try to take up the challenge of such a fundamental discourse on the doctrine of law. I'll try to take this challenge, but it's not easy. There is often such a charge, it fell from this speaker that you want to be guided by the social interest, but it is against the rules of law that we break the constitution in this way, etc. High Senate, there is no rule of law without social interest. There's no such thing as legal order. When we refer to doctrine, Professor Hauser, the creator of the administrative law system, one of the creators of the administrative law system in Poland... Allow me, Your Senate, to read something, that I will read a passage from my work, I believe, also for your authority: The practice of determining the content of the criteria of social interest and individual interest and the relationship between these interests play a role in this legal doctrine. We talk about it all the time. This relates primarily to the inclusion of these two references in the article. 7 k.p.a., which speaks of the social interest which forms the basis for the action of the administrative body in the decision-making process. It does not diminish the importance of this relationship by the fact that in Article. 7 The legislator identified as a second criterion, non-legal, legitimate interests of citizens, not parties or citizens. Therefore, the individual nature of this reference is not as obvious as it could be from the direct compilation of both criteria. And further: to examine the depth of these criteria in relation to their relationship to the legality (legality) of administrative activities and the way in which administrative authorities balance both interests in the context of seeking to strike a balance between the criterion of social interest and the criterion of the legitimate interest of citizens, with the general assumption of the lack of a model advantage of this first criterion and the need to weigh them each time. What does that mean? This means that every time a public administration is obliged to weigh this criterion of individual interest and of social interest. And just if someone is referring here to the criterion of legality, then if we have a rule of law, then after the rule of law we need to look at general clauses, such as here, interpretations, and only from this arises a legal standard, and only from this can we draw out the criterion of legality enshrined in the Constitution. That's why I stress once again that there is no such thing as a legal standard without a social interest, which by many lawyers is treated as something that doesn't exist, right? There's a rule of law, there's an end, there's no social interest. No, we absolutely disagree with that in the doctrinal sense. Therefore, many allegations that this bill is not in accordance with the constitution are false in our view. When we say: show you where specifically this draft law is incompatible with the Constitution, in response, we usually hear accusations related to the possibility of making entries in perpetual books, except that the committee will have the right to do so. Your Senate, the only problem is that today such a law is held by the chief of the IRS. If we're creating a general public administration higher than the director of some tax office in the county, then why should this director have that right and this chief authority not? That would be illogical. Another charge, which has been repeated several times here, is that this committee will not act quickly. On the contrary. The way we presented here, as I have already mentioned, this administrative path is the fastest of all paths known in the Polish legal order. Administrative decisions are made much faster, as already mentioned by the senators in the discussion, than decisions in common courts, where you can wait and after 10 years. A decision at the level of the Voivodship Administrative Court shall be pending for up to 6 months, in the case of the Supreme Administrative Court maybe a little longer. Of course, that will be the case if someone makes use of such a law, because it may prove that not everyone will benefit from it. And there's this charge that doesn't make any sense because it's a job for 800 years. But, Your Senate, it is such that if you accept this charge as a serious charge, you could ask, for example. such a question, whether the Senate or the Sejm are able to solve all problems of Poles. Of course they can't. But should the Sejm or the Senate be dissolved in this regard? Oh, no. If we can solve even a few problems in this Senate term, I think that's the plus. Exactly the same thing with this committee, I'm talking about ratio legis. If we can restore justice at least in a percentage of these cases, I think it was worth it. What have we got to lose? On several occasions, this speaker has been accused of not having the responsibility of committee members for the decisions they will take. It was associated with a lack of qualifications, etc. In general, such a thesis is being built, that the wrong committee, and good courts. Well, your senate, if so, if you accept such logic, it would be noted that there will always be an appeal to a good court from this evil commission. Right? One might ask: what are you afraid of? There will be no final decision, there is no final decision ending the entire investigation of the verification commission, it will always be examined by the court, please. Nor is it that the administrative courts do not examine matters in substance. We have many examples that we do. [[And the show will be.]] Mr. Senator, the platform also has the right to appoint its man for this show. And I can remind you of the show if you'd like... [[Minister, don't pay any attention to the votes...]] Okay, I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room:...opposition.]] [[Not the opposition, but the room.]] Another issue, another element that has emerged here, is the creation of such a thesis that these decisions will be taken by people who will not have the necessary qualifications, and the necessary qualifications are needed to make such decisions, I stress, administrative. In this situation, I'd like to remind you... Oh, and it was linked to the statement by Marshal Borowski that I compared the committee with other bodies on this immunity issue, and I said that the members of the committee do not have to be so qualified, because in the cases of local authorities, i.e. presidents, voytes, mayors, there is no need for such qualifications either, and they make such decisions. Right? So it's a theory that unqualified people won't make good decisions, and the president may not be responsible... and the president is responsible, I'm sorry. The President is responsible and the members of the committee will not be liable. So, High Senate, let's try to deal with the practice we're talking about now, that is, Warsaw. What does the president of Warsaw's capital city say? That she doesn't have any responsibility, if anybody, it's the officials. Well, what qualifications... Who makes these decisions? Well, it looks like these officials are making decisions. Are there any qualifications in the law that the officials who make these decisions must have? High Senate, let's be consistent. We are talking about the same category of decisions. And there's this argument. It's been raining many times, too. The D.A.'s office is fine. I already talked about it from the speaker today, answering questions, but I'm gonna say it again. The prosecution is conducting criminal proceedings. And even if the prosecutor's office leads to the fact that someone will be convicted, the guilty one will point out, the Warsawers expect something more, and the Warsawers expect a change in administrative decisions today. And the D.A.'s office can't do that without an authority, as I just pointed out, listed in the Code of Administrative Procedure. He may bring it to the organ, yes, but so what if the organ is still the president of Warsaw's capital city. Another argument, Mr. Marshal Borowski, that it will take so long and it will not end during the term of office, that it will be ineffective, because if they lose in administrative courts, they will go to universal courts. This argument is wrong, Mr. Senator... Mr. Marshal, I apologize because any appeal proceedings before the NSA are adjourned. And that's it. There is no way that they will go to the common courts. That is why there is a constitution that divided common courts, administrative courts, etc., and that is the jurisdiction of administrative courts. And then it's over. That is why there is a chance, absolutely, that these decisions will be made relatively quickly. And finally, there was this very emotional speech by Senator Pociej, which came down, among other things. to such a statement: but we had the right to do so, and that was how it worked. High Senate, I would like to tell the senator that there was no such law in Poland. And no major reprivatization bill would have changed that at all. If everyone, a whole bunch of decision-making, judges, officials, the president of the capital city, etc., made decisions that led to the fact that the guardianship was received by someone who was 140 years old today, then I would say that no law would have... There is no such law in Poland as you speak of the senator. Is there such a legal order that a woman is burned alive because she defends shameful decisions? There's no such legal order. There's no such legal order, Senator. There is absolutely no such legal order. I don't agree with such claims. Is there a legal order that allows you to buy allegro numismatics from the times of the Second Republic of Poland and on this basis acquire a wealth worth several million zlotys? There's no such right either. Unfortunately, I am afraid that the arrangement of political and legal elites in Warsaw covered such a wide circle that no large reprivatization bill would have helped. And if there were any ridiculous decisions or, for example, The key documents were lost, as in the case of this famous plot on Chmielna... Yeah, they suddenly found themselves after two years, someone didn't notice that the compensation had already been paid. I'm afraid there's no law that could do that. It was just an organized fraud, it was an organized criminal group. And that's why today the people of Warsaw are screaming for justice, shouting for swift justice. This bill is the hope of restoring this justice. Does he give such a guarantee? Of course it doesn't, but you might ask perversely: what do we have to lose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u285	Thank you, Minister. [[In corrigendum mode, Minister.]] And your name was mentioned? [[It was mentioned.]] Good. There you go. Mr. Senator Borowski in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u286	As far as the possibility of going to a court of law is concerned, I was based on Senator Silence's reply. That's all I can say about it. But if you can't go to a common court, that's worse, because it means that this committee, because the administrative courts judge only in terms of legality, can do whatever it wants. And the other thing about the president who isn't in charge... I said, Minister, that the president is responsible. This case can even be referred to the court, the prosecutor can prepare an indictment, e.g. for negligence, lack of supervision, etc. Not to mention the employees who make decisions. On the other hand, as far as the members of this committee are concerned, they have no responsibility and can't even bear it because they're protected by immunity. And it's not okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u287	You listed the senator's name as Senator Silence, who reports in corrigendum mode. Yes? [[Yeah, I'd like to correct that.]] Just don't mention anyone else, 'cause I'm about to announce a recess by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u288	I said it was possible to go to the court in the context of whether or not it was the responsibility of such a committee to make a decision in violation of the law, a decision which would cause damage. I was referring to an art. 77 constitutions and articles. 417 Civil Code. I was also talking about this judicial process when it comes to reopening proceedings against those who were asked to pay for the occupation of the premises without a legal title as a result, for example. that someone was doing the so-called. cleaning the building, or in the case of compensations which are decided from the capital city of Warsaw. That's where the court's possible. I didn't say it would be possible globally for all the proceedings. So if you misunderstood me, I'm sorry, because maybe I wasn't exactly speaking. I remember talking about these cases, not so globally. [[But, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u289	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u290	This may limit a little of these possibilities, but you said that if a decision was made in violation of the law, it could be complained of in a court of law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u291	Of course, but after all these conditions are fulfilled, which in turn are mentioned in the article. 417 of the Civil Code, i.e. if there was a ruling stating that such a decision of the Property Commission was taken in violation of the law. So that it is not so that if someone tells himself that he thinks the committee's decision was in violation of the law, he will immediately refer the matter to the general court for damages. No, first, unfortunately, he must obtain a ruling stating that the decision of the property commission was given in violation of the law. [[But whose judgment?]] [[Okay, you know...]] [[Whose?]] Whose... Well, it would have to be a judgment given by a property commission, I guess, in a different composition. Okay, Mr. Marshal is digging the subject so deeply... I'm so hot right now, 'cause I'd have to... [[Gentlemen, there's a committee meeting tomorrow.]] I'll go back to that tomorrow. [[Okay, I'm not gonna...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u292	I'm gonna put this on the board right now. I think we could discuss this tomorrow. I don't think it's like the members of this emergency committee are gonna have any responsibility. In my opinion, if they become Secretary of State, they are liable to the Court of State. They can carry... Just like the ministers. [[But I don't think the Secretarys of State include...]] Includes. [[I don't think so. I don't think so.]] I think so. [[I don't think so.]] No? [[No.]] Okay, 'cause we're already out of... We've finished the discussion, you've spoken to the Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Are there communications? Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u293	The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on proposals for a law on special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law, will take place tomorrow, 3 March, at 8.30 a.m. in room 176. The second communication: the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Act amending the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act and some other laws will take place on 3 March at 8.30 a.m. in room 179.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-02-senat-36-1.u294	I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 31]]
