ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Secretary, please take your seats. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the metropolitan union law in the Śląskie voivodship. Before the break, there were questions to the government representative, and at that moment we stopped. Do any of you senators want to ask the Minister another question? Welcome to the Minister. Any questions? [[The questions were exhausted.]] [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of the first registered senator, Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which I have the honour to chair, is particularly listening to the voice of local government. And it is true that the self-governments represented by you by the president of the city of Zabrze, acting as head of the Upper Silesian Union, which has been operating since 2007 and represents several cities on the rights of the county which wanted to participate in this union, are, indeed, as the Minister said here, interested in this law. There's no question about that. They are also interested in the speed of proceding, because the original plans included the idea of creating this relationship for a year. At the moment, according to the Act, it will be six months, because by 1 July, actually by the end of June, formal legal matters are to be settled and the activity of the relationship is to start from 1 January 2018. So it's really time. Honestly, I'm not gonna scream at you because you're really missing a vacatio legis here. But it is indeed a specific law and the addressee of this law are those who accept the kind of constructions that they really want, and they know that, there is no surprise here, because these solutions have been expected for many years. That is why I, exceptionally, do not make such an amendment, as if by going away from a certain principle. I am making a number of amendments that have been made by the Legislative Office, which are not amendments, please, formally, these are very important amendments. I'll give you an example... Let me just say that the union members thought these amendments were important, but they said this: we will improve this in our statute. But the statute has a different rank. In addition, it is possible to accuse yourself of the fact that the statute is not legally binding. So the validity of these amendments, at least as important, was not actually contested. Let me give you an example. Amendment 5, proposed by the Legislative Office, refers to the merits of this relationship, that there are other legal events, apart from legal acts, which may result in the acquisition of property, i.e. for the benefit of this association. As a typical example, administrative decisions and judicial decisions should be identified. And in this shape, for example, for the sake of... or on an administrative path, it would not be possible to obtain an advantage, because the legislator, as if... After all, we do not assume that the legislator wanted to prevent the acquisition of property to a metropolitan union on the basis of activities other than legal events. And it's been picked up. That's one thing. And that's why I'm taking over these six amendments, and I'm just reporting them. One last question remains, namely the relationship of this law, this lex specialis, as I said, the bill expected, needed... But why, I ask, and at the committee meeting there was this issue that there is still whole Poland, that in Silesia the problem of the metropolis does not end. In that case, we are repealing the metropolitan union law of 9 October 2015, which allows for the creation of a metropolitan union, e.g. On the coast? This is a bill. And I don't want to question anything. Which may not have adapted to Silesia's needs. Of course, we treat this law as a lex specialis, which does not mean that the metropolitan union law cannot work, which was also adopted in a common consensus. Therefore, my conclusion is that the laws in the law on the Upper Silesian metropolitan union which eliminate the existence of the general law, so to speak, the laws on metropolitan relationships, delete. Let this bill remain, no one has shown anything, and suddenly nothing has changed to prevent... There's a minimum of 500,000, there's 2 million, that's the specifics. And as I say, let's respect the will of local governments. Silesia wants to have a bill, lex specialis, and she has it, she's prepared, she's not questioned. I think that amendments should be tabled, because it will only be, ladies and gentlemen, 5 or 6 days, because if we accept them today, the Sejm will be able to accept it next Wednesday. It'll extend the trial by six days. And once again, there is a time until July 1st and January 1st. We do not take a case and agree to a vacathio legis, which is de facto we save time, and this bill with these amendments will be much better, as the local government said, because they would have to change their statutes etc. And I think that this general law on metropolitan relationships should remain. That's why I'm making my amendments. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u3	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Signed, okay. Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I do not understand why this 2015 law is repealed, which provides for the possibility of establishing a metropolitan area throughout Poland. I support this incident bill, which creates a metropolis in Upper Silesia, but I do not understand why these metropolises cannot be created elsewhere. Tri-city, Gdansk, Gdynia and other adjacent municipalities have been organized for a long time in the community and are prepared to establish a metropolis. The current law, which requires at least 2 million inhabitants as a condition for creating such a metropolis, of course only in Upper Silesia... It is clear to me that this will probably be carried across the country. Where, therefore, can such a metropolis be created according to this principle? Where could she be? Well, there may be a Warsaw metropolis, although Warsaw is against it and the surrounding municipalities are against it too. You can create a metropolis here, but you can't make a metropolis in Tricity anymore. I am, of course, pleased that PiS has left the criticism and blocking of the metropolis, because there has already been a discussion as to whether the metropolis will support Poland's development or not, and the position of PiS was such that there will be a shift of development centres to these large agglomerations, a shift which will cause them to sort of send out other places. This suction will, of course, take place. Well, it's probably gonna happen, which is why it's clear that it's important to remember and secure those centers that don't go into the metropolis. However, regardless of whether this law comes in or not, let us remember that large urban centres are pulling up the entire economy of regions, voivodships. And there's nothing to argue with. I have one more comment on this bill. Well, this law provides for voluntary entry into the metropolis. Okay, okay, okay, okay, But it no longer provides for voluntary departure from the metropolis. Even you can enter the European Union, but you can also get out of it, as we have an example now, and that is not an option here. Well, it reminds me a little bit of another relationship, not the metropolitan one, but the Soviet Union, which was also possible voluntarily, at least formally, to enter, but there was no way out, i.e. to make a move the other way. The rule should be that if you enter, you also have the opportunity to leave. The principle of creating a metropolis should be voluntaryity. Unvoluntary, acting by imposing decisions, such a relationship will not function well. And one last remark to this bill. Following the repeal of the 2015 Act, which provides for the possibility of setting up a metropolis in a situation where it will count at least half a million inhabitants... Well, under the rules that this bill introduces, although incidentally, there will be no metropolitan area east of the Vistula. And yet this part of Poland especially needs support, especially in need of yeasts, on which economic development and better income of inhabitants will grow. After all, to the east of the Vistula there are clear problems with keeping up with the economic growth of the remaining parts of Poland. I therefore support the amendments of Senator Zientarski, because I believe that it is an absolute mistake to repeal the 2015 Act. It can be improved, you can increase this indicator Let's say that from 500,000 to 1 million inhabitants But this law should not be annihilated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u5	Thank you very much. Senator Arthur Warzocha will speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u6	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, At the beginning, I would like to make such a solid declaration that I do not object to regulatoryly seeking solutions to the problems that have occurred over the years in Upper Silesia, in the Upper Silesia agglomeration or in the Upper Silesian agglomeration. Indeed, there have been various negligencees that have found no practical solution over the years, and all the existing rules, even those of the lex specialis character, have proved to be of no use today. Therefore, the fact that both local governments and the government were looking for a solution seems completely natural, which should first be commended and, secondly, supported. Unfortunately, the Śląskie voivodship has, as it was once said in trivial form, a hybrid character. It is not a natural association of regions, it is not a natural association of local communities, local communities, regional communities, but it has been quite artificially combined with three regions that have developed their own model, their own model of development pace and their own way of existing in this quite difficult and densely concentrated area, concentrated both in demographic terms and in infrastructure terms. Whoever was in the Silesian Voivodeship knows exactly what I'm talking about right now. There are still lively historical divisions, geographical divisions, and even, I would say, cultural divisions in the Silesian voivodship. This is a voivodship, which for almost 20 years of its existence has not found a way to be permanently, logically and meaningfully integrated. I also encountered these problems when for 2 years I was Vice-President of the Silesian Voivodeship as a representative in the government authorities of the voivodship, Częstochowa region, Częstochowa region, where I live. Like I said, this integration didn't happen. It seems, looking from the perspective of time, that a little better in this respect It's doing fine in the white region. There may be more natural ties between the centre of the province and the region of Bielsko. However, both Częstochowa and Bielsko-Biała speak this way, of course, on a contractual basis, because I mean the entire regions. In this voivodship, peripheral areas, which develop much slower, especially in the Częstochowa region, than in the centre of the voivodship. Everyone who has been in the Upper Silesian agglomeration in recent years, especially in a city such as Katowice, sees that the Upper Silesian agglomeration is slowly becoming a major metropolitan area, has a large urban character, cities are becoming large-town, and now almost 220 thousand cities, which is Częstochowa, are practically shrinking, rolling. It is shrinking in both demographic and economic terms. This is a phenomenon with which the local community absolutely does not agree. The inhabitants of Czestochowa know about it, see all these phenomena and cannot accept it. In addition to all of this, rankings on attractiveness are added. investment, regional development, well-being of inhabitants, how they find themselves in a city like Częstochowa, and a pessimistic picture is clearly drawn on this basis. Like I said, I don't mind finding some legal tool that will effectively solve the problems of the agglomeration. On the one hand, I am very impressed by what has been done by drafting this law, because it is clear that the law will certainly be an effective tool to solve these problems. It will also encourage progress in economic and social development in addition to resolving problems. Besides, it is written directly among the tasks of this law. On the other hand, my great concern is whether this development will not be at the expense of the outermost areas. Such a polycentric place, which will become on the map of the Silesian voivodship, the Upper Silesian agglomeration, transformed into a metropolitan union, by nature, even if we assume the goodwill of both the authors of the law and those who will then be beneficiaries or implementers of the provisions of this law... This can cause the surrounding areas or outermost areas, unfortunately, to catch shortness of breath, with the dynamic development of the Upper Silesian agglomeration. Such concerns are also raised by the inhabitants of Częstochowa. And such voices reach me also from the south of our voivodship, i.e. from the region of Bielsko. I'd like to, and it's my huge request... And I am very pleased that both Minister Błaszczak, during the parliamentary debate and Minister Chwałek, during our debates, at the committee meeting and here, in the Senate hall, during the Senate debate, mentioned that the government is preparing some special solutions for smaller urban centres which may have some problems in the near future. Often we do not even know what problems we can expect. We're hoping that the government will move on from words to actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today you are doomed to the double vote of Czestochowa. Because after Senator Warzosz, who represents the city of Częstochowa, I also have to take the floor to say a few words, a few sentences about this bill. I represent Częstochowa land, districts surrounding the city of Częstochowa. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very good piece of legislation in the Senate today. I am very admired for the government, for ministers, for the ministry, for fellow Members and Senators who have prepared with great determination material, which is a good legal solution. These are very good records, this is what is really needed in the Silesian Voivodeship, in the center of the agglomeration. Because the development of administrative forms must, Dear State, always follow the natural development of man. Because he's such a trait of progress. Where reality changes, where problems arise, we need to look for legal solutions that will solve these problems, correct them so that people live better. That's what we're here for. But having in mind what happened more than 20 years ago, after Czestochowa lost its status as a voivodeship city, having in mind how diverse the Śląskie voivodeship is, of which Senator Warzocha was gracious to remind, in human terms I am afraid of this new regulation. These regulations, very valuable, will improve the quality of life of the inhabitants of the centre, but I fear that this will not affect the quality of life of the inhabitants of my territory. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, which is so necessary and so necessary to manage the agglomeration, can make us actually deal with the voivodship of 2 speeds. The center will develop very strongly and the periphery will remain peripheral. Ladies and gentlemen, the amount of resources currently flowing from seymics to particular areas is not equivalent... to how many inhabitants are in different areas. These differences can be seen. You can see these differences when you go even on the roads of Częstochowa and compare them with the areas of the central agglomeration. We're just dealing with a different quality. I fear that this regulation will deepen these disparities. I support the regulation, but I am so humanly afraid of its effects, because I still can't hear it. I'm hoping to hear it after all. A clear signal concerning the creation of a shielding program for the outermost lands of the Silesian Voivodship. We are in this Silesian voivodeship, we function in it and we must function in it, despite cultural and social differences, but it seems that for such cities Senator Warzocha spoke about their qualities. A clear green light is needed to grow. A shielding program is needed to balance the development of such a large voivodship as the Śląskie voivodship. In conclusion, I would like to say that as a citizen of Częstochowa land, I support this solution. This is, Dear State, a good solution for those who live in Katowice, in the centre of Silesian Voivodeship, but I am so humanly afraid that this will not be a solution for the inhabitants of Częstochowa. Therefore, I ask the government to take into account our aspirations and help us prepare a cover program for the outermost lands of the Silesian voivodship. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u9	Thank you, Senator. Senator Andrzej Biesiołek, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I represent the heart of our voivodship The city of Katowice. I believe that the law that we are talking about today, from the point of view not only of Katowice, but also of the entire voivodship, is very important. It's a good bill. Such a law, let me remind you, was passed in 2015, for the previous government. About 80% the provisions of this law, which we are talking about today, is exactly what was in the one which still applies to this day. I would like to remind my fellow senators from Częstochowa and Częstochowa that the law in force today gives opportunities to these smaller centres. The law we are talking about today is not only that it concerns the Silesian agglomeration, but it also assumes that it must live in this agglomeration of more than 2 million inhabitants. That's very limited, because only to the Upper Silesian agglomeration... Let me remind you that this is not the only resort in Upper Silesia that could be an agglomeration, because there is still the southern part of the fish agglomeration that could benefit from it. But it won't benefit because the bill has been narrowed down. I think this law should be supported I strongly encourage her to support her. For very simple reasons. I believe that the concerns that have been presented here, that the entry into force of this law may cause some actions or movements which will result in an imbalance in the distribution of resources and development of the voivodship, are not entirely hit. Please note that in the center of the voivodship, i.e. in this Upper Silesian agglomeration, we have 14 cities on the rights of the county, one next to the other. If a person has been observing local governments for years, he sees that coordination is lacking on certain key issues. Namely, every president of the city conducts his politics, his game. And there are issues that cannot be solved in 14 cities individually, such as: spatial planning or transport. These are issues which in such a large body must be planned and implemented top-down, which is not by agreement of 14 presidents, because we can assume that these 14 presidents will never communicate on certain issues, looking at the interests of their city. Therefore, the bill is very much needed, and will certainly solve many problems. I'm glad she found such broad support in the Seym. I hope that this support for the bill will also be in the Senate. To conclude, I would like to refer to Senator Warzocha's speech, who sees a little bit of our voivodship in a slightly crooked, in my opinion, mirror. Of course, the voivodship is not uniform, so to speak, ethnically, because the voivodship consists of lands and Silesia, and Zagłębian, and Podbeskid, and even a piece of Małopolska, because I will remind you that Jaworzno was once a small town. Besides, the Three Emperors Triangle, which is located on the border of Jaworzna, Mysłowice and Sosnowiec, is the best indication of this. But I think that for many years of coexistence in the voivodship, these differences are becoming increasingly blurred, and we feel more and more integrated in a sense, so that the vision presented here by the senator, just disintegration, that Częstochowa is so removed... Well, geographically... lies where she lies and we will not bring her to Katowice in any way, but we can cause, just preparing a law on smaller metropolitan centers, that Częstochowa may also be able to exercise such a right. It's all in your hands, you have the government, you have the majority in the Seym, the Senate, the favorable president, so there's no problem in solving it. Once again, I strongly urge all of you to support this law. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u11	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the debate on the minutes, and you submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Zientarski. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? You're welcome. The discussion is closed. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After listening to this discussion and the senators' speeches, I came up with a few minor comments. First of all, we are not talking about a strict development tool. I'm talking about it because I'm so convinced that the discussion is running a little bit in a different direction. Development issues are the responsibility of the Responsible Development Strategy, which for Silesia in particular, for the whole Silesia provides solutions for the strategic project This document, which we are discussing today, is an administrative tool to help better organise the Silesian conurbation in the field of common transport, in terms of spatial planning, and the development element will only be a secondary element in the possible implementation of the provisions of the Responsible Development Strategy. Issues concerning the prevention, as has been said here, or the repeal of the existing law... This law gave only an illusory opportunity to create a metropolis in Poland. The best example of this is when we wanted to implement it in Silesia. It was simply impossible to apply the solutions contained there even to the Silesian conurbation. The Law and Justice Government assumes that the better solution is an individualised document, an individualised legislative act, adapted to the specific characteristics of individual metropolitan areas. At the moment, we have two of the most prepared centres in Poland. This is the Silesian metropolis, which is currently under investigation, and this is possibly a metropolis that can be established in Warsaw and surrounding communities. Other urbanised areas, smaller areas, as we have already mentioned, and as here too, can benefit from the solutions of the current laws. And if these rules cease to give such opportunities, as we have announced, we will be preparing solutions together with the Ministry of Development for smaller administrative units. They don't have to be called metropolises. The world literature of the subject gives examples of metropolises, metropolises of dozens of million. Under Polish conditions, a true metropolis, which can be referred to the size of Poland and the number of inhabitants in Poland, seems to be such a 2-million-dollar, minimum 2-million-dollar metropolis. We can talk about conurbation laws... that is, maybe agglomeration laws for smaller individuals. It's also worth mentioning... Because there was also a question of not being able to speak from the metropolitan union in Silesia. It must be borne in mind that the repealed law also contained no rules regarding the departure from the metropolitan area, so this is not a novelty in this matter. And this record or this solution was expected by the Silesian authorities. As long as the entrance to the metropolis is a voluntary, thought-out entry, and the size of the metropolis, based on the number of its inhabitants, is intended to give it the strength to carry out its assigned tasks, the exit of each of the local authorities concerned at the moment will cause huge problems. We can imagine. I've said this many times in the Sejm, and the day before yesterday at the committee meeting. That someone might think that Katowice would want to get out of the metropolis. And then what about common spatial planning plans, what about joint communication investments? Therefore, there is no such provision. The liquidation of the Silesian metropolis can only take the form of a bill. That's what I picked up here yesterday at the meeting. I would also appeal to the applicant who made the amendments, to not notify them or to withdraw them, because, after all, every day of delay in the process of this law is important. This is not the time for state administration, but this is the time for local governments to consult. Thus, it seems that the previous discussion at the committee meeting yesterday explained that the amendments tabled by the Senate Legislative Office are a kind of interpretation of the need to supplement. Nor was it that the representatives of the local authorities at this meeting clearly stated that they were in favour of these amendments. It was merely a suggestion that if the records could raise interpretational doubts, it might be possible to think about clarifying such records. It was exactly one of those amendments. In the statue of the metropolis. In our view, the proposed amendments are simply unnecessary and are not required to properly understand the provisions of this law. They will implement this law of government and government. We have no problem interpreting these records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u13	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the second agenda: the mortgage credit law and the supervision of mortgage brokers and agents. The text of the Act is contained in print 433, and the report of the Commission In print No 433 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance met on 14 March at its 70th meeting and considered the mortgage credit law and the supervision of mortgage intermediaries and agents, which the Sejm adopted on 24 February. The Commission asks the High Senate to adopt a law with three amendments. In principle, these 3 amendments constitute one substantive amendment which the Commission adopted at the request of the Financial Supervision Authority. It involves extending the registration period for credit intermediaries to 6 months so that the first period for intermediaries to fulfil this new obligation, i.e. the obligation to register in the register maintained by the Financial Supervision Commission, is longer. The Commission wanted more time to process these proposals. The mortgage credit law aroused great interest. There have been a number of positions and conclusions that the committee discussed very closely at its meeting. We've gotten all the guest seats. I'm just going to mention the most important letters that have come into the committee. We have received legislative comments and proposals from the Financial Supervision Committee, the Foundation for Hypothetical Credit, Krzysztof Oppenheim, Confederation of... The Confederation of Leviathan also included video footage showing how a mortgage credit advertising could look like after the adoption of the law. Very important information has also been received from the Attorney General, the Franca Foundation, the Association of Financial Advisory Companies, as well as the Association of Bank Stop Immortality. All these proposals were discussed at the committee meeting. The Commission prepared a report and included it in print No 433 A. The mortgage credit law and the supervision of mortgage brokers and agents brings some important changes, which I will try to present to the senators in a telegraph brief. In fact, we are talking here about seven major changes in the mortgage market. First of all, this law ends functioning in Poland so-called. foreign currency loans offered to Polish citizens earning income in Polish zlotys. The Act explicitly prohibits the provision of such financial products. The mortgage loan will be available in the currency in which most of the income or most of the assets are held by the borrower. It's a very important change. In principle, it brings to the law the thought which is contained in the recommendation of the Financial Supervision Commission, so-called. Recommendation S. The second important change for consumers is the prohibition on charging early repayment of credit after the end of the 3-year period. During the 3-year period, such a fee may arise to compensate the creditor for the costs incurred in granting the loan, but the law does rule on the limit of those costs. It's not more than 3%. the value of the credit. Finally, it's a credit decision. The creditor shall be obliged to forward the credit decision within a period of not more than 21 days. In fact, this is in line with current practice in the mortgage credit market, banks react very quickly and give these responses quickly. However, since the new law brings a number of different requirements, such a limitation of the time to prepare the offer is reasonable and therefore the obligation to submit a credit decision within the time limit up to 21 days. Another change is the ban on tied sales, i.e. the borrower will not be forced to buy... or enter into other agreements with the bank due to the use of mortgage credit. The only exception is the possibility of linking the mortgage loan to the bank's account, which is intended to be used to repay the loan or to raise funds for the repayment of the loan. However, the Act provides that this account is to be kept free of charge. It's the only way to connect the products. This does not, of course, mean that combined sales cannot or cannot be offered other services, but, in the case of combined sales, unlike tied sales, the conclusion of a contract for another product offered in combination sales does not condition access to mortgage credit. A very important change is the obligation for the bank to offer a loan restructuring plan, a loan restructuring plan, when the borrower is in difficulties with repayment. So there is no immediate termination of the contract, there is an appropriate time, first the restructuring plan, if this restructuring plan proves ineffective, impossible or impossible to draw up a restructuring plan due to the assessment of the situation of the borrower, then the borrower has by virtue of this law 6 months to sell the apartment and allocate the funds from the sale of this apartment to repay the loan. Only after this period can the bank take recovery measures. A significant change concerns information requirements to be included in mortgage credit advertisements. Well, there's quite a lot of information that lenders will be forced to share in advertising their product on all media. We are talking about an image, about sound, we are also talking about advertising materials, billboards, leaflets... A lot of advertising time or advertising space must be devoted to reliable information of the borrower about all the costs and obligations that he must fulfil by concluding a mortgage agreement. This advertising obligation will make it easier to draw up and this will probably come soon. A well-functioning mortgage comparison, so we can expect that one of the effects of this law will be the emergence on the Internet of such easy price comparison or the cost of mortgage credit, which will certainly make it easier for consumers to make the right choice for them. And a new, important thing about many thousands of entities is the supervision of credit intermediaries, which will be carried out by the Financial Supervision Commission. The Financial Supervision Board will also collect... Its intermediaries will pay a fee of 0,3% on revenues. The Commission for Financial Supervision will keep a register, have the right to obtain information, as well as access to the premises where this credit intermediation activity will take place. We had a very broad discussion. The senators who followed the work in the Sejm may have noticed that the issue of the intermediary's presence in the granting of mortgage credit was a very hot topic. This case is back in the Senate. Mr Chrzanowski, President of the Committee on Financial Supervision, in his speech asked the Senate to restore the provisions that had been amended in the Sejm, i.e. to reinstate the prohibition on the remuneration of intermediaries by the creditor. The very broad argument made by the President of the Financial Supervision Commission, which convinced us that maintaining the existing model of remuneration of the intermediary, as a result of which the intermediary is interested in concluding as many contracts as possible, regardless of the degree of risk... At the meeting, one of the representatives of the Financial Supervision Commission quoted a representative of financial intermediaries who said that after a mortgage, people who did not receive this loan in the bank were sent to them and that intermediaries had to work very hard to draw up a loan application so that this man would get this loan. This statement confirms the arguments set out in the letter of the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, which stressed the risks arising from such a sales model that intermediaries receive remuneration from the value of the money sold and not from the quality of the contracts concluded. They can act directly to reduce the quality of these contracts. The Commission, after also hearing the position of the Minister of Finance, the Minister representing the Government, considered that the Act contained other tools that the KNF could influence the way the remuneration and the relationship between the credit intermediary and the creditor is shaped and that the introduction of a ban on the remuneration of the intermediary by the bank and thus the transfer of it to the borrower would result in the deletion of the existing acquis, the development of the mortgage credit market. That's how the mortgage market is shaped. That's how it works. We have many companies and thousands of people working in this industry. The arguments that all clubs accepted in the Sejm, also at the meeting of our committee, were considered appropriate, stressing the fact that the Financial Supervision Commission has sufficient tools to shape this relationship between the bank and the intermediary. First of all, it may affect not intermediaries, but banks, so that the way in which intermediaries are rewarded properly mitigates the risks that we see in this activity. The Ombudsman's letter was received by the committee as soon as the committee had completed its work after the report had been drawn up. In this letter, the Financial Ombudsman asks for the amendment of the law and the introduction of a fee from credit intermediaries to the Financial Ombudsman in connection with the activities laid down in the Act which the Ombudsman's employees would have to perform. This issue was also raised at the committee meeting, in an oral statement by the representative of the financial Ombudsman. And the current representative of the Ministry of Finance considered that the measures mentioned in 2017 would be able to implement and finance the financial Ombudsman within the budget. It is also important to note that the extension of the senate amendment to the registration deadline, the entry in the register of mortgage brokers up to 6 months shifts the action horizon of the financial spokesman towards financial intermediaries, credit intermediaries. So that a few months... So here we are actually talking about the tasks that the financial spokesman would perform in 2018. And, having already had experience with the entry into force of this law in terms of the number of cases that will come to the financial Ombudsman, we may be able to implement this proposal, which has been received from your Ombudsman, on the occasion of the around budget law, by providing the financial Ombudsman with resources for his activities in 2018. So much for my report. The bill is very extensive. Work in the Seym lasted a long time. I regret that we in the Senate have so little time to work on laws. Nevertheless, what the committee proposes is optimal, appropriate and I ask the High Senate to adopt the report of the committee in print 433 A. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u15	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to Minister Gruza. Would the Minister like to speak on this matter? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Mr. Marshal, I do not see such a need at this moment.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: Kazimierz Kleina.]] Mr. Senator Klein. Minister, come in. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u16	Mr Marshal, Minister, I would like to return to the problem raised at the committee meeting, but also in the rapporteur's report, namely the issue of financing the financial Ombudsman. It was presented here with the hope of Senator Bierecki, but I would also ask for such a clear, clear position of minister: do you also think that we could solve this issue on the occasion of the around budget bill or in some other way, so that the financing of the Ombudsman's activities by participants, financial market players, would be evenly distributed? I even wondered if I could propose an amendment on the financing of intermediaries' contributions. However, it seems to me that at this stage it would be actually premature, because it is worth noting how many of these complaints will be, what is the real and actual cost of solving these problems on the financial Ombudsman. Experience has shown that, in many cases, the Ombudsman has been really good at solving issues related to the problems of citizens taking loans from banks and helping bank customers. So it seems that he will also work here and with financial intermediaries, and with those who may feel hurt by the ombudsman. I hope there will be very few such cases. Are these problems, so to speak... These are the rules governing the financing of the financial Ombudsman in the area of supervision of credit intermediaries. Could these cases be solved e.g. on the occasion of the adoption of the around-the-budgetary bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u17	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, thank you for asking. Of course, there is always room for new solutions in the legislative process, including the budget law, but at this point we do not foresee any interference and any deviation from what is proposed in the present law. I think the department's position is this: let's just let these regulations work, see what happens. We also hope that the sum of these legislative measures will lead to a certain civilisation or rationalisation of the action of all participants in the credit process. The demand for this, say, to assist borrowers in this process will fall precisely by means of a mechanism to rationalise the entire credit production process, so to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u19	Thank you. Are there any more questions, Senator? No. You're welcome, Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the bill... In fact, I would like to know the government's position, because such a position was not presented at the committee meeting, but there was a dispute between the Financial Supervision Committee and the government party. My question concerns the provisions of the Act concerning the date of the decision at the request of the credit institutions or intermediaries, that short time limit for the decision, i.e. 14 days. The representatives of the Financial Supervision Commission were concerned that this 14-day period in their assessment might be too short to produce a narrow throat. Why? How would you justify that? Why did the Ministry take the case so hard and did not agree, did not agree to the extension of this deadline for the decision by the Financial Supervision Commission?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u21	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u22	In our view, the timing of the 14-day decision is reasonable. It is possible to fulfil it. We have recently had a report or a presentation of the activities of the Financial Supervision Committee at the meeting of the Sejm Committee. It is an efficient institution and it seems to us that the 14-day time limit is sufficient to carry out the procedure ending in a given decision. That's why it's a government position.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u23	Thank you. Senator Blackbay, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u24	Mr. Marshal, Minister, a brief question. I didn't ask him at the committee meeting. Does the Minister have any knowledge of 2016, he knows the value of mortgage loans? If not, I'll keep looking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u25	I'm sorry, I'm just covering for Minister Nowak. We'll try to answer in writing. [[No, I'll find it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u26	Good. Questions, please. I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Blackbay. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to declare that this is a good bill. As the President said, we have had a lot of discussions during the work, but of course we have discussed the purpose of making some amendments, because what concerns the idea itself, everything that is written in the law, will certainly benefit mostly those who want to borrow mortgages, but also the Polish economy. I would like to remind you that the instability and bad mortgages were the beginning of one of the biggest crises in the world in 2007. Therefore, this concern, ladies and gentlemen, about mortgage credit in terms of supervision of the quality of the credit granted and its safety and the interests of each citizen is a very important element. And this bill, after more than two years of work, goes to the session of the Sejm and the Senate. Let me just remind you that this is also a reflection of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which, in view of the risks posed by the European economy or the world economy due to bad, bad, toxic mortgage loans, has issued such a directive. What I'm saying is that the Civic Platform, I hope we all vote as senators... I will personally vote in favour of this bill because it is a project that, as Mr And now, ladies and gentlemen, two words about history. As I said, mortgage credit is a very important loan, from the point of view of at least two such cases. First of all, it is an important element of support in obtaining housing by people, let's call it, medium-sized. Secondly, this is a very important credit from an economic point of view. All I'm gonna say is that in a record-breaking period... That's why I asked the Minister for 2016 because I couldn't find the data. In any case, in 2007 this was PLN 54 billion. These are 54 billion that go into the economy very quickly, so this is an important part of driving the economy. Therefore, it is important that, in addition to these 2 elements, there is also the third element referred to here, namely the safety component of the borrowers. I would also like to say a few words about the history of mortgage loans with us, our history, starting from 2004 to ending, let's assume, for 2016. I want to say yes. As history is a teacher of the future, today we are talking about what is the future, i.e. how the Polish economy and mortgage loans will function in the future. However, I would like to remind you of a number of matters concerning mortgage loans, especially currency loans, and I address this primarily to my colleagues in Law and Justice. Well, what's going on with the past... It would also be appropriate to propose a solution to foreign exchange loans, because I would like to say that it is the Law and Justice that has many good mortgage and foreign exchange loans here. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that the particularly good period for foreign mortgage loans was the 2005-2007 period, in particular 2007, 54 billion mortgage loans, of which 70% It's loans in francs. Why do I address this statement to the representatives of Law and Justice? Not only because you are a ruling party today, but in my opinion you also have a moral obligation to what is history in this situation. Well, when the Banking Supervision Commission issued its so-called "banking supervisor" in 2006. Recommendation S, this club of Law and Justice, please, referred to it, speaking of mortgage loans, as follows. I'm gonna bring up a few words here. The Law and Justice Club thus refers to the recommendation of the S Committee on Banking Supervision in relation to mortgage loans. We are anxious to accept It writes the Law and Justice Club's recommendations to the Committee on Banking Supervision, so-called. Recommendation S, introducing restrictions on access to foreign exchange loans, the main effect of which will be to reduce the possibility for citizens, especially young people, to acquire their own apartments. And then there are 5 different points where the state highly praises currency credit in francs as one of the important elements of driving the economy and obtaining housing. Finally. I am no longer going to quote the whole thing: "The bad result of the S recommendation may be that a large part of the average earning Poles will not be able to access the loan due to a sharp increase in its costs." The recommendation of the Committee on Banking Supervision may also lead to the inability of smaller banks to grant foreign exchange loans. Thank God that smaller banks did not come to a large extent, so to speak, into this whole system of granting foreign exchange loans. I am saying this because then there is an election campaign in which the presidential candidate, today President Andrzej Duda, and then the candidate, promised almost 1 million Poles who have currency loans, that they will be converted according to the course of signing the agreement. The problem of currency loans, especially in francs, but also in other currencies, was also very raised by Law and Justice in the election campaign. You said that this problem is to be solved quickly and efficiently. I am talking about this because the very good law that regulates this issue in the future is and will be supported by us. But at the same time, I ask my colleagues from Law and Justice to return to your electoral promises, return to the assurances made in 2006 by the Law and Justice Club, which is a blessing for Poles to borrow in foreign currency, and to return to the promises made by the President concerning assistance for 1 million people who have loans in foreign currencies. Thank you very much... And like I said, the Civic Platform Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u28	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. I also thank you for the declaration of support of this law, submitted on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. Maybe I'll start by saying that, well, good solutions are usually the result of the experience you get. And the experience that is gained is usually the result of mistakes made. Undoubtedly, it was a mistake to allow such a great freedom of credit, so-called. Franc loans and that the Commission for Banking Supervision, and then the Commission for Financial Supervision, did not show any activity in the examination of contracts that had been concluded by banks. In fact, the idea of granting foreign exchange loans, of lending housing more widely, about providing housing for young families, but not looking at details was discussed. I mean, there wouldn't be anything wrong with these so-called things. franc credits, if they were paid in francs or if they were paid in zlotys, but the capital of this loan would not be variable. Meanwhile, banks set a trap, used a credit trap for several hundred thousand Polish households, offering low-interest loans and encouraging borrowing in francs. Let me remind you that at that time there were very aggressive advertisements, in which even one of the current opposition leaders participated. After all, Mr. Petru was very inclined to borrow mortgage loans. Different bank lobbyists then explained that whoever didn't take credit in francs really lost his life because he turned out to be a loser who didn't benefit from such cheap credit, so easily available. Contracts were offered in which the ratio of the loan to the value of the property exceeded 100%. All of this was looked at by supervision and did not take proper action. We have dealt with a certain inactivity of the state in this matter. You could say it's a good thing because there are apartments. Well, they were built. These hundreds of thousands of loans have resulted in several hundred thousand new apartments, so they have arrived square meters. But the problem is, people have a variable-capital loan to pay off. He's changing, he's growing with the money course. This trick was not predicted by certain politicians who signed this resolution and who thought that it would actually work like a normal mortgage: well, it is financed by francs, but since I took 200 thousand PLN I'm gonna pay the 200 grand plus interest. But it turned out that out of these 200 thousand, some of them turned into 400,000, and the franc course, which we have no great influence on, puts these families in a trap of insolvent credit. Senator Czarnobaj spoke about the fact that Law and Justice, like Mr Duda, have taken up this important subject in the election campaign. Yes, it's very important that we've taken up this subject. I remember being alone in my previous term... I'm sorry, I didn't do it alone, I did it with Professor Cioch. At our request, a debate took place in the Senate. We then heard information from the Minister of Finance and the Head of the Financial Supervision Commission about the so-called. loans granted under the so-called francs. I'm talking about the so-called. francs, because we've been dealing with valorization, indexing and all sorts of tricks here. In general, we learned from this debate in the Senate that these francs were not there. Mr. Kowalczyk, Deputy Minister of Finance, told us about this. If Senator Czarnobaj, who was also in the Senate at the time, reaches into this transcript, it will probably hit his chest, because the conclusion of this discussion was that there is no problem, because these loans pay off well, and besides, these are loans granted to wealthy people. Today I was driving to the Senate and passing a demonstration under the building of the former KC PZPR. I think it was the French who protested and demanded justice, as well as the activity of the state in solving their problems. A few months ago, together with a group of senators, we tabled a draft resolution of the Senate, which was an appeal to the Committee on Financial Supervision, the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General, and the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection to take action so that the state became active and to solve this very important, important problem. I think that this resolution is not really necessary anymore, because the state is already operating. There is activity on the part of the UOKiK, there is excellent activity on the part of the financial spokesman, there are actions taken by the Attorney General. I myself had the opportunity, in connection with the debate that took place in the Senate, to be asked to be heard at the prosecutor's office on the misleading of borrowers by banks in the granting of loans. I myself have witnessed in this proceedings, which the Szczecin Public Prosecutor's Office is conducting. I know the Internal Security Agency is also involved. I mean, somebody came up with these credit traps, and this guy has a name. These people, if they have broken the law, if they have led to large-scale fraud, they should be punished. So I'm asking Senator Czarnobaj that we all agree on solving the problem of franc credits, regardless of club membership. This problem needs to be solved, these people should be freed from the credit trap. The most important thing is that the Polish state started to act and defend its citizens, who are, after all, weaker in relation to the bank. For the committee's sake... I would like to draw your attention to the very important material that has contributed to the committee's work. In relation to proposals which representatives of so-called associations of organisations. They submitted the franchise to the committee, a proposal was made to allow for the transfer of the apartment and thus the payment of the total commitment. I asked the President of the Attorney General, Mr Leszek Bosk, whether such a change of legislation could result in possible damages to the Republic of Poland from foreign banks and investors. After all, these foreign banks and investors already during the previous term, when legal changes were discussed and there was a proposal to solve the problem of franc loans, scare people, suing Poland before arbitration courts on the basis of so-called. bilateral investment agreements. Poland has many such agreements, still in the late 1980s and early 1990s, when Poland, hungry for foreign capital, signed foreign investment protection agreements with many countries. In the meantime, something's changed. We are a member of the European Union and the European Commission is of the view that such bilateral investment protection agreements should not apply between the countries of the European Union because these issues are governed by the EU treaties. Those contracts should be terminated. The European Commission has recently asked Romania to do so. The aim was for Romania to conclude these old agreements, which threaten Romania to sue just when Romanians dealt with the problem of franc credits. In a letter dated 13 March, which is available on the committee's website, we have received very important information that the Government of Law and Justice has set up a team to analyse these agreements. In January, this team started working. The position presented by the Attorney General and by the Polish Government is that these agreements no longer apply to us. In view of the accession to the European Union and the conclusion of the EU treaties. So I hope that what is scared of Poland, what is scared of our government That is, suing us on the basis of those old contracts that were concluded at the end of the 1980s and at the beginning of the 1990s... I hope that they will be spoken and Poland will be free from such threats. And I hope we're all in agreement on this. Since these provisions, these BIT agreements do not apply, in some sense it can be said that the Polish government and the Polish Sejm have no reason to be afraid of the threats that the representatives of banks providing franc credits present during the public debate on the solution of the so-called issue. Franc loans. This is a very important position in this debate, because the argument that scared us and which has prevented many from acting decisively has just been dropped. And that, you might say, is the sidework of the budget and finance committee's work on the Sejm's mortgage credit bill. So we have the opportunity to take bold action, but they must be taken at the right time and in the right order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u30	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few more sentences to what Senator Bierecki said, of course supported by certain facts. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I, speaking of franc credits, have, of course, remembered how many of the committee's activities were in the previous term. I just want to remind you that it was the Civic Platform that applied for 50:50 in terms of costs. He for various reasons Also political, i.e. the upcoming electoral campaign, but also because of the expectations of the environments of those who have these loans, and the assessment that this proposal 50:50 is not good was rejected. And then there was the 90:10 proposal. Anyway, this problem... There were attempts to solve it, and it ended the way it ended. That's first of all. Secondly, I also remember what the senator was talking about. For the record, what I'm saying is... It was the Polish, nothing happened that was preached by the banking community so gently and it was the representatives of the banks, in part also of the Polish Bank Association, that presented the matter so that here the people took out the richest, so nothing happened. We, on the other No matter, Mr. Senator, from the political colors, we said something had happened and that it was a problem to approach. I'm talking about it so we don't stand in this position today: well, nothing happened, we have a good bill. Okay, this bill is good, it's great, it has the advantages that we talked about and during the debate in committee, and during today's debate, but there's still a problem that needs to be addressed. I am pleased that the senator declares that we will act courageously in this regard, because I want to make it clear, without any political consideration, that you really have a moral obligation to propose a solution in this matter. We will, of course, also be involved in this, but as if you are taking the main responsibility for this. Because in 2007, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Senator, 311,000 people have borrowed mortgages, 72% of which in francs, which was also a tribute to your promotion that this is a good solution. This country was politically speaking: yes, run loans in francs, because this is a good solution. Later, however, the value of mortgage loans It's getting really low, and the francs aren't even... And, practically speaking, you can say it's already a residual amount. I am talking about this because, in view of this point of view, the senator's declaration is important. We will actively participate in this, suggest and solve the problem that is to be solved. And I'm glad Mr. Senator says yes, there was a mistake, it needs to be fixed. Therefore, as part of the needs of these 750 thousand Poles waiting for a solution... I do not say what, because it is the subject of big studies, but it can certainly not be the subject of empty declarations, that here we are trading the loan from the date of conclusion of the contract, because it is probably an extreme proposition and may be a problem with its implementation, but it is important that this declaration is. I am talking about this because to remind you that this problem exists, and by reading and listening to the statements of the President, who said yes, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen: who has a problem with French loans, let him go to court. Well, that's how smart we've always been. You could say you have a problem, go to court, you'll get justice. I welcome this declaration and declare that we will be members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, but not only to participate in the work on the subject of solving issues from the past... I hope that as a result of this work there will be a proposal, which will also accept the environment of people so actively fighting for the problem to be solved by the Polish Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u32	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on Collection, Storage and Transplanting of Cells, Tissues and Organs. The text of the Act is contained in print No 430 and the report of the committee In print No 430 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u33	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Senate Health Commission a bill amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on Collection, Storage and Transplanting Cells, Tissues and Organs. The Act was adopted by the Sejm on 24 February 2017 and amended the Act of 5 December 1996 on the Competition of Doctors and Dentist and the Act of 1 July 2005 on the Collection, Storage and Transplanting of Cells, Tissues and Organs, transferring to the Act on the Competition of Doctors and Dentists provisions concerning the determination of permanent irreversible cessation of brain function, as well as the determination of death due to irreversible arrest of the circulation prior to collection of organs, from the Act on the Collection, Storage and Transplantation of Cells, Tissues and Organs. These regulations are an expression of the concept of medical and expert circles that the declaration of death is one of the activities performed by the doctor and the most appropriate law for regulating this matter is the Act on Competitions of the Doctor and the Dentist. The failure to include these provisions in the Act on Competitions of the Doctor and the Dentist gives the impression that the determination of brain death or death as a result of permanent irreversible cessation of brain function is carried out by doctors to collect cells, tissues and organs. This causes resistance to this method of behaviour not only among society, but also among doctors creating our transplantology, and this is a barrier to the development of this field in Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! New in the Act on Competitions and Dentist Art. 43a, which regulates procedures for the determination of permanent irreversible cessation of brain function and irreversibly stopping the circulation prior to organ donation, differs from the composition of the teams of doctors which are tasked with identifying these conditions. 2-person warehouses are now introduced, which are currently three-person warehouses in case of brain death. At the same time, indicating the requirements that doctors must meet for these teams. In the case of brain death, these are two specialists with a second degree of specialization or a specialist title, including one specialist in anaesthesia and intensive therapy or neonatology, and the other in the field of neurology, paediatric neurology or neurosurgery. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of the project, the call of two available specialists to determine the permanent irreversible cessation of brain function will be an effective and consistent solution in other countries as well. In the case of irreversibly stopping the circulation prior to collection of organs, these are 2 specialist doctors with a second degree of specialization or a specialist title, including one specialist in anaesthesia, intensive therapy or neonatology, and the other in the field of emergency medicine, internal diseases, cardiology, paediatric cardiology or pediatrics. The Act contains a provision which is in force until a new notice has been issued by the Minister for Health containing the manner and criteria for establishing permanent irreversible cessation of brain function and irreversible stopping of the circulation prior to collection of organs. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. The Senate Health Commission is asking the Senate to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u34	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Jackowski.]] Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question: what does this law change, in practical terms, in relation to the existing regulations in this area? I would simply ask you to mention at the points of amendment the existing regulations that this law is introducing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u36	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u37	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, first of all, we're transferring about the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs to the Act on Doctors and Dentist's Competitions for Death. And secondly, the important element is that the composition of the committee, which determines the brain death or irreversible cessation of circulation, reduces from three to two people.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u38	I'm asking you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u39	I have just the question: why such a change? However, the three-member committee may be more so, so to speak, centered. Because... why am I asking this? I'd like the senator to know the intention of my question. I'm asking because the definition of death always causes some discussion. It's such a deontological problem. And a larger committee offers a greater opportunity to ensure that there is no doubt about the people closest to you. So what is motivated by this change? Or just practical? Because, of course, it's easier to organize 2 people than 3. But for the sake of safety and the absence of any doubt... Because the boundaries of today's medicine, the limits of life and death just... Well, the scope of knowledge that needs to be available is very comprehensive and detailed. And science in this area is constantly changing. We have more and more recent arrangements. Therefore, I have a question: would it not be better to keep the three-member committee, so to speak, with procedural caution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u40	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u41	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, indeed, this subject was also addressed at the committee meeting. Two-person teams that report brain death... In fact, across Europe it is accepted that 2 specialists in a given field will suffice. Matter is actually very delicate. I think it doesn't really matter whether it's two or three doctors, because a statement of brain death doesn't always lead to the next stage of organ procurement. So it's not exactly like we're finding brain death, and a man like that, I'm gonna say ugly, is good for an organ donor. Well, sometimes it's just that there's a very long, persistent therapy that doesn't practically make a person come back to life. Because the brain is already dead. Well, you can ask why not 3 why not 4 doctors. I think that the composition of this committee is balanced enough that these two doctors, based on the entire protocol, which is very complicated and quite detailed, may conclude that the brain's work has stopped. And I think it doesn't give rise to any danger of confusion, especially since we now have a lot of methods to confirm the diagnosis of such a 2-person committee. And I think that reducing her membership by one member will make it a little easier and more efficient for the committee. Unfortunately, our transplantology suffers from a lack of organ donors, so this, too, I think, will somehow facilitate this access. Well, the nature of that is actually very delicate. But I don't think it's gonna upset the way you look at another person; you give him life, because transplanting organs leads to that, that another person can continue to live and enjoy life. Right? That's all I can tell the senator. This is really delicate matter. I'm telling you honestly, telling someone he's already dead, which means we're finding brain death. Even though the apparatus charts show that the heart beats, and the apparatus breathes for it. Well, it's very difficult. It's very difficult, but without it, transplantology wouldn't be right. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Ambrosik. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u43	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask if the doctors who decide to die will be able to participate in transplant procedures later. Do they have a right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u44	No, a doctor who determines brain death can't be involved.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u45	Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Mrs Katarzyna Głowala, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Hello, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jackowski. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. The rapporteur mentioned here that the number of transplants carried out in Poland is relatively low. Tell me what size it is, because there's definitely some statistics. And how the resort estimates Will this number increase, decrease as a result of the introduction of this law? Well, I guess the goal is, of course, to increase this number and facilitate the whole transplant procedure, but how does the resort simply assess the introduction of these provisions? And what's the current level? How does he put us in relation to other countries in Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u47	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u48	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators, in 2015 it was 1 thousand 548 transplants. To be honest, we are not good for the countries of the European Union. [[That's the number of transplants?]] Yeah, all the transplants. [[Liver, kidneys, etc.?]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. If the senator wants details, I can fill them in in in writing. And as far as the impact of the proposed changes on the transplant system is concerned, this is just the beginning of the changes we are planning. This is the first step in terms of change. I think he'll have some influence. I don't think it's that big. On Tuesday, a meeting of the National transplant board was held in the Ministry of Health, which adopted a very large document containing the assumptions of changes in Polish transplantology; on the days it will be set up by the Minister of Health, who will draw up regulations for these assumptions. We want a comprehensive approach to transplantology. However, this is the first step, necessary to do something good and to improve the statistics on transplants.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u49	Thank you very much. Questions, please. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you about the development of transplantology, in relation to the statements of my previous speaker. The functioning of Poltransplant at national level should be translated into the activities of coordinators in individual voivodships. Are the assumptions of legal changes... Will it strengthen the role of those who operate in individual hospitals, and if so, how? Often, people who coordinate organ transplants in individual individuals are quite alone in what they do. How are you going to break this barrier so that the scale of transplants and organ procurement is increased at the hospital level?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u51	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u52	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! We want to strengthen the role of coordinators and, above all, to introduce a incentive system for coordinators. Unfortunately, there is no such incentive system now. I think there's a lot of room here to improve... We want to regulate the training of coordinators, etc. The point is that the coordination system will help improve the transplantology system. [[I'll ask you a question.]] I think there's a little... [[Minister, what is this incentive system going to be?]] ...too soon. These are assumptions. The band will have time to write the bill by the end of the year. I think that when writing the bill there will be various kinds of consultations, especially with the National transplant board, with professors, with coordinators, in order to develop mechanisms that will contribute to improving the transplant system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the current article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs is an unambiguous record: You are transferring the contents of this law to the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist. Where in this target law, i.e. the Act on Competitions of the Doctor and the Dentist, is the equivalent, the unambiguous equivalent of the Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One that I quoted?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u55	To the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentists, we transfer the procedure itself, which is the method of determination, and the implementing act on the basis of which the procedures for establishing permanent irreversible cessation of brain function and permanent stopping of circulation prior to organ collection will be defined. Art. 9 currently in force... The law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs is amended in Article. Nine, so that transplant issues... It's written directly and it's in the transplant bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u56	Minister, I'm sorry, but we don't understand each other. From the article. 9 you remove your mouths. 1. It's about the transplant bill, in short. In that case, at least a provision of similar content should be included in the Act on Competitions for Doctors and Dentists. Are we okay with this or not? I ask, where is this content, the same people's content. Now that we're cutting it out of the art. Nine, this should be found here somewhere. Maybe he's indirectly here. I didn't find it, so I'd ask you to explain where it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u57	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u58	I'm sorry, I don't have my current law on me, so if I may, I would refer to it in writing. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u60	Minister, I have a question, perhaps very difficult. Many families who visit a loved one and see that they are unconscious The doctors say there's been brain death, but the charts show that the heart beats It is difficult to convince that their loved ones are not living within the meaning of the medical definition. I have a question as to whether there have been cases of a person who has been diagnosed with brain death, in some inexplicable medical way, returning to the world of the living. [[Miracles.]] Are there such cases, or have there been no such cases in the world? I'm asking because maybe that would solve that kind of doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u61	I'm sorry, but I'm not personally familiar. I find it difficult to answer the senator's question in this situation. [[Then I'll ask you to answer in writing, maybe there's some knowledge in the department. If possible, I'll ask for a written reply.]] If... [[So I would ask you to answer these two specific questions, one about these transplants in 2015 • you were talking about 20,000 547 cases and yet the answer to the question about whether they are known... I am not saying that in Poland, wherever... Is there any knowledge about this? Okay?]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Good.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u62	Thank you very much. I don't see... [[Senator Silence.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u63	Minister, I have a question that is actually similar to that of Senator Jackowski. Isn't a team of two doctors who are supposed to be dead within the meaning of the bill not enough? I am referring to the fact that three doctors have actually provided for the regulation so far. Now this has been moved, the content has been transferred from the cell transplant law, let's call it a short term, to the doctor's profession law, but on this occasion the number of doctors who are supposed to say it was 3, and it's 2. What is the reason for this? So far, this has worked in three-person teams, and it's a very serious matter of whether or not a person is alive.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u64	Dear Senator, We have analysed solutions in the countries of the European Union and in most European countries it is 2 doctors. There has been a doctor in this 3-person syndrome so far, so-called. A medical examiner. Since we are introducing modern methods, medicine already has modern techniques regarding the determination of death in these 2 cases, we have found that 2 doctors with specific specialties will be a sufficient team. In addition, it should be noted that practice shows that 2 doctors are easier to collect than 3. This certainly does not endanger safety and will not adversely affect this solution. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u65	Thank you very much. [[One more question.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u66	I'd like to ask you one more thing. Namely, the previous act on transplants provided a statement of cerebral death as a prerequisite for the organ collection. It was in the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One that, unfortunately, has been repealed. Meanwhile, in the article. 43a Although it is not known that expressis verbis is also a condition of irreversible cardiac arrest, but from the mere fact that doctors are to determine either brain death or irreversible cardiac arrest seems to suggest that we are expanding the possibility of transplanting, we also include people who have been found to have irreversible cardiac arrest. This is to extend the range of possible cases of organ donation from persons considered dead, or actually cases where people could be considered dead, because previously, in order to be considered dead, brain death had to be determined, and now it is enough to state either brain death or irreversible cardiac arrest. And this irreversible cardiac arrest, to be honest, causes me a little anxiety. Well, because it's, uh, Primo, extension, and secundo... As a non-doctor, I may have unjustified concerns, but it seems to me that, since it is human life, the criteria should be very strict and interpretation should be rather restrictive, rather than broadening, if any doubt arises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u67	Since this question is partly in line with the senator's question, I will try to answer in writing because it is difficult for me to answer, because I do not have the text of the current law. I can say that what we have in front of us, which is what's in this bill, is a proposal from the community of professors who take care of... [[...transplantology.]] No, it's not transplant science. There were anesthesiologists on the team that worked on it. As the Ministry of Health is at the end of the bill's notice, there are specialist doctors in the team who do not participate in transplantology, only doctors who find brain death and irreversible cardiopulmonary arrest. These are the postulates of the medical community.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u68	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What the answer is is more anxiety, unfortunately. Well, you rightly pointed out to Senator Silence that there is one more condition that allows for the collection of organs, but not only for transplants, please note, but at all. Because there were 2 categories in the current bill, namely the collection of human cells, tissues, organs and the collection of cells, tissues, organs for transplants. [[Voice from the room: That's it.]] Those were two different articles. As long as this first article was and only expanded by the fact that it could be done after death... I apologize, after the diagnosis of death, and supplemental to the doctor's profession, it is said that the finding of permanent irreversible brain failure and cardiac arrest is equivalent to a statement of death, which is to say that we extend it in connection with this equivalence, so it fell out of the text of the doctor's profession law, which means it was not properly transferred, a record of the admissibility of the collection of tissues, organs, cells for transplants. Well, rational legislators call it different... I don't know what to call it... different objects, different names, and the same names. So if the law that we're changing describes separately the collection of tissues, organs and cells and the collection of tissues, organs and cells for transplants, then you didn't literally transfer it to this law, the doctor's profession law. Because it's not differentiated at the moment. And the question is, is this on purpose? On the one hand, there is an extension of the scope, and on the other hand one of the descriptions, one of the statements, falls out of the law. So either it's intentionally done, you just leveled it, or it's an oversight. Because I'm gonna admit I don't get it. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: The idea of change...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u71	The idea of a change, which is proposed here, is not to transfer the provisions on transplantology from the Transplantology Act to the Act on the profession of doctor and dentist. It's just a question of finding irreversible brain failure and irreversible cardiac arrest prior to organ donation. So there's nothing here that involves transplantology. This is a medical operation that every doctor does, whether these organs are for transplantology or not. Therefore, we do not transfer anything from the bill and there is no extension regarding transplantology. What's going on with transplantology stays in the transplant law. Only and only the question of the medical procedure itself, which is a typical medical procedure, we transfer from the Transplantology Act to the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist. [[I'm sorry, I'm gonna be a pain in the ass, Minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u72	Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator... [[...but I have to say it.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Intrusive?]] [[Yeah, I'm gonna be pushy.]] Mr. Senator... [[I'll read it again...]] Mr. Senator, excuse me, I'm speaking. [[Good.]] Senator wants to ask you another question, right? [[Yes, of course, Mrs. Marshal.]] That is a brief question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u73	The bill we're dealing with, Art. Point 2... sorry, point 3: in Article. 9 The laws on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs shall be repealed. 1. And in the mouth. 1 of that Article. 9 is clearly written, quote: The collection of cells, tissues or organs for transplantation is permitted after the determination of permanent irreversible cessation of brain function (brain death). It's not in the bill anymore. We're relinquishing this bill. The question is simple: why do we abolish it? And now we'll know everything. Why is it repealed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u74	As I said before, I will answer this question in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senators Jan Maria Jackowski, Jerzy Czerwinski and Zbigniew Cichonia. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... [[Senator Silence...]] Oh, you're Senator Silence. Good. Senator Zbigniew Cichonia, please. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I will admit that I was interested in this law because it concerns the fundamental issue of human right to life, the right protected by any international conventions, including Article. 2 of the 1950 European Convention on Human Rights Therefore, any regulation that concerns the moment of the declaration of death is also fundamental and requires very careful and preciseness. That's why I'm gonna tell you honestly, I was worried about what I saw. I don't think it's just me, but also Senator Czerwiński and Senator Jackowski, as I figured out on the basis of the questions asked. That we are moving certain regulations from the fundamental law to the issue of transplants, i.e. the 2005 law, to the law on doctor's profession. In the end, one could agree with this, although I believe that those things that concern the essence of transplants at all, the moment of death, the reasons that determine that death can be pronounced, should nevertheless be in the law on cell collection, storage and transplantation, because that is the title of the law. He suggests that there is a full regulation of these issues. We must not allow ourselves to move these important issues to the Act on Medical Conspiracy, in addition to changing the essence of this regulation. Because the essence of regulation changes in at least 2 cases, as I was able to trace. Namely, first of all, there is an extension of the cause of death. Not only is the so-called statement, as has been the case so far. cerebral death, but also irreversible cessation of cardiovascular function It is a complete novel, a very important extension. I'm not exactly a doctor, but it raises my serious concerns, because there is a question of when and how to say that stopping the circulation is irreversible. Secondly, the standard of protection of human life is being undermined by the resignation of a three-person team of doctors to determine the death and change to a team of only two doctors. The translation by the Minister that such solutions are in the European Union is not convincing to me, because we see that the European Union has recently made a very important regression in terms of the protection of human rights. The economic rights of various pharmaceutical, medical corporations associated with transplants or other institutions, generally connected with earning, gain the primacy of protecting human life. Well, that's the sad reality. I know this from an autopsy, from talks with my colleagues lawyers from countries such as Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, where various situations related to the weakening of human life protection are allowed, mainly through the introduction of euthanasia. We remember recently adopted shocking solutions in Belgium that even allow children to euthanise. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the point of reference for us, and this is not the place to look at and to be modelled on when adopting the laws that we want to have at home. Therefore, I would appeal here to lean on this and consider whether it is appropriate to repeal the provisions of the Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The previous and subsequent law on transplantation Let's call it that in a nutshell. Especially since I believe that the regulations contained there are far more precise and more protective of human life than those we are introducing here. I will allow myself to make amendments, but I must make them briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress here that protecting human life is the foundation. I will no longer quote here various theorists of law, specialists and criminal law, and from human rights who approach this issue differently. Starting, ladies and gentlemen, from the very construction that has been adopted with us, namely that the lack of objection to the collection of an organ is the same... I mean, the point is that not making a statement to the opposition register is a presumption that a person is willing to take an organ from him. I know that what I'm about to say may be shocking to some, but I personally am in favour of a man making this greatest, most beautiful gift he can do for his neighbor by giving his consent. The fact that, after his death, some of his organs serve another man is perhaps the most beautiful gift a man can make, but, ladies and gentlemen, the mere acceptance of such presumption that... Well, one of the legal theorists, specifically Professor Mącio from the Department of Criminal Law at the Jagiellonian University, which I had the pleasure of finishing, called a kind of legal fraud acceptance as an assumption... Because it is known that a man, wanting to dispose of anything, and even more his body, should most often express it in a positive way. And you can't assume that if he didn't object, he agreed. So, as I say, from a moral and legal point of view... Well, different discussions are going on here. But even though we've already adopted this solution, In addition, there are different solutions in different countries, in fact most often this presumption of consent prevails, we need to keep standards very high in this area, please, because this is about human life. Therefore, let me make some amendments here and appeal to lean on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u77	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[But the senator has to make amends.]] [[In writing.]] [[Voice in the courtroom: If your marshal closes the discussion, the senator won't file it.]] And I'm not closing the discussion, I'm just saying there are no more speakers. And I'm waiting for the senator's corrections. [[This break needs to be announced.]] [[Senator needs to rewrite...]] I'm calling a five-minute recess until 11:15. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 10 to 11 minutes 15]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister, you're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the senators, please be quiet. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u78	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! I will refer here to the statement that we are extending the scope of the law. I would like to remind you of the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Today's Act: The collection of cells, tissues, or organs for transplantation is permitted after the determination of permanent irreversible cessation of brain function (brain death). Art. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the current law states: "The collection of cells, tissues or organs for transplantation is acceptable once death has been established as a result of irreversible cardiac arrest. The records of cardiac arrest and irreversible cessation of brain function are in the current law, from where we transfer them to the article. 43a Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist, which also says that this article indicates permanent irreversible cessation of brain function, i.e. brain death, and irreversible stopping of circulation prior to organ collection. We're not expanding anything, we're moving records from two provisions, Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1, for one article of the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist. Thank you very much. [[That's not what convinces me.]] [[In writing, you don't have to...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u79	Thank you. Minister, if you wanted to give this information in writing after all, I would appreciate it. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Yes, yes.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 431, and the report of the Commission In print No 431 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Senate Committee on Health, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the work on the Act amending the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsman of Patients' Rights and on certain other acts of the Senate Print No. 431. The Act covers provisions concerning primarily patient rights regarding access to medical records and the protection of personal data and health information contained therein. It clarifies the provisions on certain patient rights, the powers of the ombudsman, and the functioning of the voivodship panel on medical incidents. With regard to medical documentation, the essence of the project is to create legislation that ensures the proper protection of personal data and information on the patient's health, both during the functioning of the medicinal product and after the end of the therapeutic activity. The Act sets out clearly the ways and costs of making medical records available and indicates the persons entitled to obtain them. The security of the data contained in the medical records shall be directly linked to the identification of the persons authorised to process them in the course of their medical activities. It is therefore proposed to clarify the provisions in this regard. The Commission proposes two amendments to the Act. Amendment 1: in Article. 1 point (14) (a) and the words "third and third" shall be deleted in the amendment order and the words "national consultant" shall be deleted and the consent of the physician referred to in paragraph 1 shall be communicated to the Ombudsman, together with the list of national consultants. 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The second sentence of the amended law is not necessary: together with the list of national consultants, the consent of the physician referred to in paragraph 1 shall be communicated to the Ombudsman. 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a. This sentence contains editorial awkwardness regarding the transmission of consent. It is a matter of consent expressed, but this sentence is not necessary in view of the content of the added paragraph. 2a, which provides that the inclusion of a doctor in the list referred to in paragraph 1 shall be included in the list referred to in paragraph 2. 2, requires his prior written consent, so it must be documented before entering on the list. And amendment two. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 18, paragraph 1. 1a The words "the determination of a medical event' shall be deleted. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 67c paragraph. 1a the amended law is unnecessary to determine the medical event. Because in the previous paragraph, i.e. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 1 67c, this is the unchanged part of the law, there is a legislative abbreviation for the concept of the proposal, paragraph. 1 reads: a request for a medical event, hereinafter referred to as the application, shall be submitted to the Regional Commission for the ruling of medical events competent for the seat of the hospital. On behalf of the committee, I ask the High House to adopt the law together with the proposed 2 amendments. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u81	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: No. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. You're welcome, Mr... [[Senator Ambrosik.]] Yes, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and then Senator Richard Majer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask how long the patient's medical records have been kept. What time does the obligation to keep this documentation apply? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Again, I'm sorry, because I haven't heard.]] How long has the patient's medical records been kept? For how long does a medical centre or hospital have to keep this documentation?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u83	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't really understand the question. This law regulates matters relating to the transmission of medical records, which will be followed by the death of the owners of the medicinal product or in the event that the medicinal product is removed. In view of the fact that what is happening in such cases is currently not regulated, the draft law contains provisions on such regulations, indicates what will happen to the medical documentation in such situations. In addition, we regulate the transfer of medical records to the patient. The originals won't be made available here. They'll be copies. But I don't quite understand the meaning of your... [[What happens to the medical records after the patient's death?]] [[How many years?]] She's... It's an art. 29 of the current bill, and now... [[10 or 20 years?]] In general, the health care provider shall keep medical records for a period of 20 years from the end of the calendar year in which the last alert was made, and there are exceptions. [[20 years...]] Yeah, 20 years. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u84	Thank you, Minister. Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u85	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you about the relationship of NGOs that represent the interests of patients with this amendment of the Act on the Ombudsman of Patients' Rights. Are there many topics that have not been included in the updates that organisations have requested on a daily basis to monitor patients' affairs and to assist them? Were there any controversial elements that organizations wanted to introduce, and the Ministry could not do so for various reasons? What did this consultation look like, what did this area look like?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u86	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u87	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Most of the demands of the patient organisations have been taken into account. There was no controversy on the part of the Ministry of Health about taking into account the changes proposed by the patient organisations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u88	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u89	Let me ask you again, more specifically, about the article. 20a. There's a statement in there that works in medicine. a long time ago, although perhaps it has never been materialized in the form of a legal article: that the patient has the right to treat pain. And in the mouth. 2 We have a record that the healthcare provider is required to take action to determine the severity of pain, to treat pain and to monitor the effectiveness of this treatment. How's that going to work?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u90	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u91	This is also a requirement of the patient's environment. The whole procedure will be defined in the standard on which the Ministry is working, because we want to regulate the issue of treatment of pain in the form of standards. Everything will be specified as standard.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u92	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u93	Can I ask you one thing? Minister, I'm in this article. 20a I see no delegation to issue any regulation, no order. What legal status will this standard have?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u94	Standards will be regulated in the form of a notice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u95	Thank you. You're still a senator, aren't you? You're welcome. [[One more question. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: If I may add... This is currently in the Act on Medical Activity, exactly in the article. 22.]] Thank you. Senator Ambrosik. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u96	I'd like to ask you about the punishment. Are penalties provided for those medical service providers that do not comply with the conditions for the storage of medical documents?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u97	Yes, they are functioning in the current law. This amendment regulates the issue of what will happen to the medical documentation after the person has been wound up or after the death of the owners of the medicinal product who have operated the medicinal product, because these issues have not been regulated and it has often not been known what to do with such medical documentation, which, say, remains valid. As far as penalties are concerned, the law currently regulates how this documentation is to be kept, i.e. it imposes an obligation, sets out all procedures, and sanctions are provided for failure to comply with the provisions of the current law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u98	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Maciej Łuczak and Łukasz Mikołajczyk made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 427 and the report of the Commission In print No 427 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the last meeting, the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment considered the amendment adopted from the Government's submission of the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and certain other laws; Senate printing No 427. The joint committee meeting was attended by a representative of the Ministry of Economy in the person of Minister Grzegorz Witkowski. It is necessary to adopt this law, which aims to implement in the Polish legal system certain provisions on ship recycling, monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions in maritime transport, sampling and reporting on sulphur content of marine fuels. No amendments were tabled during the second reading of this law in the Sejm. At the third reading, the Sejm adopted this law by 431 votes against by two Members, with one abstention. The Senate Legislative Office has not made any amendments to this project. During the joint committee meeting, 15 senators voted in favour. On behalf of the two joint committees, let me ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, gentlemen of the Senators, please. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Mr. Senator, thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Grzegorz Witkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Mediterranean Shipping. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Grzegorz Witkowski: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act on investments in the construction of the water road connecting Zalev Wiślana with the Gulf of Gdańsk. The text of the Act is contained in print No 428 and the report of the Commission In print No 428 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Krystian Probier, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present to the High Senate a law on investments in the construction of a waterway linking Vistula Zalev to Gdansk Bay. The aim of this law is to improve the preparation and implementation of investments from the state budget on the basis of a resolution of the Council of Ministers on a multiannual programme of a waterway connecting Zalew Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdansk for the years 2016. The shipping channel will be built for essential reasons arising from the overriding public interest of ensuring security in the region. The Act serves the public good, which is the new waterway. Experience from the construction of land roads shows that focusing in a single regulation of administrative and factual decisions results in more efficient and reasonable time for investment in transport roads. It is primarily about the rapid and effective implementation of the new waterway, and this requires shorter administrative procedures. I would like to draw attention to the fact that only 9 Members voted against this law in the Seym and 18 Members abstained. It can therefore be assumed that all major policy options are in favour. As regards the opinion of the Legislative Office, as is apparent from the final comments of this opinion, the law does not raise any legislative objections. However, it points out that, as provided for by the Act, all environmental issues, including impacts on Natura 2000 sites, will be resolved in the context of the environmental impact assessment in the context of the environmental decision. This law is modelled on earlier specifications, and in particular on the law on the construction of the regasification terminal in Świnoujście. Importantly, this law replaces the requirement to obtain arrangements, permits, opinions or conditions for approval by the authorities referred to in Article. Four of this bill. In short, what are we talking about in this bill? The most important element of this law is primarily the intention to execute the excavation. This excavation was initially planned in the narrowest place of Vistula Mieria, in the village of Skowronki, but due to the occurrence of a rare genre of arms from the group Charophyta this excavation will probably be in the New World. The channel, which is to be built in accordance with this law, is to be 1100 m long and is to be 80 m wide on the water line and 5 m deep. I would like to add a few points about history. Well, perhaps the first project of building such a channel had already appeared in the time of King Stefan Batory. The second such project, mentioned in history, is a project from 1945 proposed by Minister Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski, who is known to us. Of course, for each type of construction there are indications and contraindications. The most important indication is, of course, the use of the port of Elbląg, a notabene built from EU funds. There is a freight terminal, passenger terminal, border check-in point and a yacht pool. This will contribute to the development of the economy in the area of Gdansk, this port in Elbląg will become such a base for the great port in Gdansk. Well, the main thing is, the sea road's gonna be cut short. I think this sea road is 90 km at the moment. And as far as the most important contraindications are concerned, the economic sense of this undertaking is not questioned, but there may be some environmental concerns. I think it's gonna be solved. The need to excavate a shipping channel with a depth exceeding the current depths in the Vistula Bay can cause some environmental changes. Another problem is finding a dump site that will be extracted while digging through the canal. That's it. Even with regard to such comments, I would like to say to the High Senate that bookmakers take bets on the fact that... It is better to make money, betting that this investment will not start in due time or be completed in due course. I am absolutely convinced that this law makes sense and I will encourage you to vote on it without amendments. That's the last thing I'm gonna say. Please, High Senate, Mrs. Marshal, why do I do professional mining, geology? Well, I'd like to draw your attention. And that's why I'm reporting on this project. Someone's got to dig up that canal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u102	Well said. Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u103	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm glad this bill is, because I think it's very necessary. But what would you say to the critics of this project? Because in total, this watercourse, which will be predicted, is 4 m or 4.5 m, if I remember, so the tonnage of the vessels that can use the port of Elbląg will necessarily, for technical reasons, be very limited. And then there's the second question. What's she gonna look like? 'Cause it's raised, too. The organisation of traffic, e.g. for the town of Krynica Morska? What's the car crossing gonna look like? Well, that's also an element that appears in the public debate. Thank you. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u104	Please, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u105	As far as the second question is concerned, I will answer that the concerns of the citizens of the Sea Krynica, our spa pearl on the Baltic Sea, were indeed expressed, but as far as I know, that is where the construction of the deceiving bridges is envisaged. The possibility of connecting the road to Krynica itself will not be cut off. As far as this maritime route is concerned, perhaps the Ministry's representatives will be able to comment more on it. Anyway, I can see that this is something like this... The design of the port of Elbląg cooperation with the port of Gdansk is what we predict in larger ports of Western Europe. The goods would be unloaded on these smaller ships and delivered. The cost of storing goods is much lower in Elbląg than in Gdańsk. That's what I'd say to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u106	Thank you very much. And Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this is a special thing that needs to be applied in exceptional situations. When there was Euro 2012 in Poland, such a law was really needed when construction of roads in Poland was necessary, too. However, this special act concerns an individual case which is known; you said that in Stefan Batory's time this case was known. I have a question as to whether a special act is needed for this particular project, which in some ways complicates things. Well, that's what I might be asking the Minister later. I have a question about the justification of this specialty. It is noted that the construction of the shipping channel will be carried out primarily because of the public interest of ensuring the security of the State. I'd like to know. By leaving this Stefan Batory, since that's how you started. What has changed in these years with regard to this state security that we now need to implement this investment through a specialty because of this security. When we talk about state security, we don't even need permission, we can also make investments after the notification, and here we have this justification... Could you explain here the issue of state security? What's that supposed to mean?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u108	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u109	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the justification is so... Just look at the map, just see how the shipping on the Gdańsk line is taking place at the moment Elbląg. We need to use the Piławska Strait. We do not have free access because this passage is controlled by the neighbouring state. That's it. The idea is to be able to travel freely between the port of Gdansk and Elbląg.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u110	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, and then Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: Accurate.]] ...Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u111	Senator rapporteur, well, your safety concerns depend on, I think, something else. This is a different range. Military, police, military... But tell me, through this channel, will the Polish war fleet be able to influence the Vistula Bay. [[No, I can answer that, can't I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u112	Please. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u113	I mean, there's no sure... But I think so, I think so. It's within our territorial waters, in our area. Since we can't use it in the Piławska Strait, I think that's a possibility, if necessary. But here I don't give my head, I don't know all the details of the regulations. And when it comes to security, Mr. Senator, there is also such a thing as economic security, energy security... [[I know, and health, food, etc.]] Yes, sir. Yes, sir. [[But security, you know, it's... state security is...]] Well, otherwise here we understand the concept of security. [[Okay, I'm gonna ask the minister if the parameters... because I'm also talking about the parameters that this channel will have.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u114	Mr. Marshal, you will then ask that question to the Minister. And now Senator Jerzy Wcisła wishes to ask the Senator rapporteur a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u115	Mr. Senator, I'm not gonna fight about this state security business anymore, but I'm gonna say he's so defined... It would be good for us senators to know what lies behind the notion of State security. Because as for this general interest, it is possible to add this security interest to everything, including, for example, the fight against insects in the woods. But my question is: why is the economic interest, the economic justification for the construction of this channel, replaced by the security interest? The Act no longer states that this channel is being built to increase the number of transport services and to increase tourism, i.e. there is no economic justification. And it was really the basis for going back to building this channel. This channel and during Stefan Batory's time, and in the 1990s, the project of building the channel was designed by Prof. One-Birkenau, designed to increase the activity of the Elbląg flood subregion. Is this argument no longer valid now? Is the State's security argument more important?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u116	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u117	I don't think there's any reason to believe that this economic interest is being ignored here. I'm sure he's very important... I think so. And I think the Ministry's representatives will respond in detail to this. Perhaps the basis for accepting this State security interest should also be seen to allow this project to be implemented more quickly. But nowhere in any of the documents did I find any information that we were giving up business. Here you were talking about the development of tourism, the development of all this... There is a talk of perhaps 7 times the planned increase in transhipments in Elbląg and this is important. Well, I read it somewhere. That's it. If there are any more specific questions, you can address them to the Minister, because I know as much as I read in those documents.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. Once again, Senator Sticks. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u119	There's no mention of economic benefits in the bill, Mr. Senator. But I have another question. In the case of this law, environmental and social consultations are discontinued. I sometimes... I have a different view of what environmental organisations are doing, but I am absolutely convinced that building a channel will have an environmental impact because it is a matter of the Natura 2000 network... and this voice of the environmental community needs to be respected. We have enough examples in Poland that there are disasters or large environmental costs due to the fact that the environmental consultation has not been listened to. And in this law, the environmental consultation shall be replaced by an opinion. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u120	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u121	Well, I feel the same way about the actions of some of these, say, ecological organizations. I have already said that all environmental issues, including the fact that Natura 2000 is there, will be resolved in the implementation of the environmental impact assessment. So that you don't ignore these environmental aspects and there's probably some impact, you can't hide it, the environment will. However, the requirement to obtain these arrangements, licences, opinions will be replaced by an opinion procedure. The point is to speed it up, so I understand it, the whole process of making this investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u122	Thank you. Is there another question? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Grzegorz Witkowski is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome, Minister. Sir, I'd like you to come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u123	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło last year strongly returned to the idea of building a shipping channel by the Vistula Land. It has established a multi-annual plan for 6 years to finance this investment on a permanent basis. This investment, like the Senator rapporteur here, Professor Probier, has been discussed for centuries. The last decision of the government of Jarosław Kaczyński in 2007 was the establishment of this multiannual programme. A few months later, the government of the Civic Platform then, Donald Tusk personally threw this project into the trash. There would be no such questions, ladies and gentlemen of the Platform, now would be no problem if you did. You've been able to consult for eight years, collect documentation, save money, build money, reap the economic benefits of our... [[But what are you doing?]] ...from our project. [[You were supposed to justify the project.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You're welcome, ladies and gentlemen...]] [[What's the point of the bill?]] [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please be quiet. Minister, you're welcome.]] Why are we doing this with a specialty, not an ordinary bill? Because it is a special investment, just as investments on the Euro were special. I don't know why road construction was a special investment, but there were specialists. The construction of a shipping channel in such a specific place, in such a sensitive geopolitical place requires a speciality, which, you know, does not suspend any environmental or investment rights on the stake. It shortens the time of decision and the time of appeal, and you know it. This is also mobilising for the authorities of the State, because they will have less time to decide and settle appeals. So I guess we're going in the right direction. We want the first ships to cross this channel in 2021. There were questions about the economic aspect of why he wasn't in the bill. Firstly, it is in the explanatory memorandum to the Act, and secondly, indeed, the overriding important interest of the State is security. Mr. Marshal, for the past two years, Border Guard units have been unable to influence the Vistula Bay because there has been no agreement from the Russian Federation. Last year there were very large maneuvers of NATO troops. Elbląg is under the command of a multi-national division. We have in the immediate vicinity of the Kaliningrad circuit 2 large ports, including naftoport. As a member of the Tri-City, you know exactly how this strategically affects our situation. We cannot afford to be at the mercy or disfavor of our eastern neighbours with whom we have certain problems. We hope that these problems will be eliminated in the future. Senator Wcisla said there was no public consultation. No, in the course of the environmental impact assessment, all public consultations will be held. Moreover, we were consulted by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs in November last year with environmental environments, but not only, but also with the inhabitants of Maritime Krynica. It was the first of a series of meetings because we are at the beginning of this road. She's gonna keep going, we're gonna hang out with them, we're gonna drive there, and we're gonna invite her over. We're at the beginning of the road and we're going to do this project because it's a good project. In secret of my heart, I think that's what you think too, ladies and gentlemen. Please support and constructive comments, because this is a really good project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u124	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. [[And Mr. Senator Florek.]] Then Senator Jackowski and Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u125	Minister, I think it's not good to put up with these kinds of terms that call to mind some military elements, but since they've already been introduced here... Just as it is not good to argue with the concept: State security when suspending the local border traffic with the Kaliningrad circuit. My question is about this channel. Will the parameters of this channel allow the Navy unit to access this reservoir on the flood?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u126	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u127	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would return to my questions which I asked the rapporteur, because I would like to gain more knowledge from the Ministry. Firstly, what is the answer to critics who say that through this channel they will be able to cross only units with a immersion of up to 4 m are really not much And the specified parameters? And then there's the second line. What will be the solution when it comes to crossings? Because part of the measure will just become an island. What will the car crossing look like for this part, let's call it, an island measure? The Senator rapporteur spoke about the concept of a drawbridge. But the drawbridge has a certain effect. Right? Such a bridge is temporarily closed, so there will be traffic, especially during the summer, when the tourist traffic is alive. I also have a question for you about the crossing. What is the estimated frequency of ships crossing this channel? It would give us a certain picture of when this bridge will pass and when it will be temporarily impassable. And one more thing. Was it not possible to consider building a permanent crossing? I know the costs would be much higher, but then the argument would fall off... Has not the cost analysis of the entire investment considered such a option as to build a permanent crossing within the project that would allow permanent circular connectivity between the island and the rest of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u128	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please be quiet in the courtroom. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you so much for these questions. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz asks about the parameters, and this is related to Senator Jackowski's question. Well, the most important thing on the technical side in this channel will be the airlock through which ships will flow. The airlock will be dug up, built on a level. According to our estimates, because we don't have a technical project Approximately 7 m. So units with a dive of up to 5 m will be able to flow through this channel. However, please remember that at every stage, if necessary, you can deepen this channel, even up to 8 m. So we're leaving this gate. But ships, Navy units do not have a greater immersion than 4 m or 5 m depending on their weapons, depending on the type of craft. For now, we have a problem with the absence of the Navy after such a large stagnation in investing in the Navy, but I understand that for example. Western units, Natovsky can affect. They'll be able to do it, too. The solution to the movement... In his questions to the rapporteur, Senator Jackowski put the question of how it would look on the Vistula River at the beginning. Yes? In the locations considered, the waterway will be a few kilometres away from the Maritime Krynica, depending on the variant. I will, of course, send such detailed visualization and technical data to the senators concerned. It is for the Maritime Krynica as a spa, as well as a place for recreational sailing, water trams that may occur, which will not matter much, and even if The daily movement of ships is currently not in a position to estimate. I think it's going to be a few ships a day for now, but it can be a dozen depending on the development of the port in Elbląg, from access to it. There are a lot of factors here. We as the Ministry of Maritime Affairs are responsible for allowing us to enter the port, to open it to the world. Of course, we are also interested in economic and business matters. We want to make the best of it, but the market will respond to it, and the local authorities will respond to it as well as the national authorities. Such a curiosity, Ladies and gentlemen: yesterday a large turbine for Opole Power Plant was built in Elbląg. It's going to be a water road. First to Szczecin, then Oder transported to Opole. So we're back to normal in all of our solutions. Turbine built in Poland, for the Polish power plant, transported by water roads, not by night, with closing of whole quarters of streets and various such things... So that there is not yet a channel by measure, and already economically Elbląg could benefit from this, and by water such a turbine could be transported. Mr. Senator, there will be a harbor captain on the airlock. There's gonna be a port captain who's gonna run the ship's traffic. We also plan to build 2 drawbridges At the entrance and exit of the airlock, so one bridge will be abandoned all the time. The construction of a high vancouver bridge, first of all, would disrupt the landscape there, second, would be costly. In such a specific area as Vistula Mierija, we have decided to make a solution based on led bridges for the time being. I think it will also be attractive touristly, because it will all be possible to use. I'll send it to the senator in these visuals. So there's no way It is not only a matter of intense traffic during the summer season, but also a matter of emergency services that must get from the New Gdansk Court to Krynica. So we thought of that, too. If we succeed, he'll fasten it, and all indications are that we'll make it, then we'll have two deceiving bridges.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u130	Thank you, Minister. The question is Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, the fact that we were incompetent and that you know best, we've already heard. You often say that, but you convinced me here. You really convinced me about the safety threat, because what happens in the PiS government is that there are no helicopters, no modern equipment. It is an increasing threat to the security of the state. We really need to build these objects that can be built. I'd even offer some kind of super-law, some super-script on this specialty, to speed it up, because 2022 is a pretty distant term. But I'm going back to the law. Well, it's kind of a curiosity here to make decisions. I know all the specialties that have been passed, especially the road ones. Decision authorising investment in access infrastructure 'Cause that's what this decision is called. It is issued by the Pomeranian voivode, but it is issued after consultation with the Warmia-Mazury voivode. I would like to draw attention to the expression of the consultation. As far as the decision on environmental conditions is concerned, it precedes, of course, as it was written, the environmental impact assessment, etc. We've talked about this before, except it's all shortcuts. This decision is preceded by a decision by a regional environmental director in Olsztyn, but the regional director from Pomeranian Voivodeship has an advisory function. It's not about agreement, it's about all laws, it's about opinions. Well, I understand that when an agreement is made, you define your terms, so the regional director in that region defines... The principle was that where the investment is carried out in a larger area, the decision-making authority is the voivode from that region, and the environmental decision is also issued by the relevant regional environmental director. Here's something new. This is a mix-up, because there are opinions instead of an agreement. And so is the opinion of these other institutions. The time limits for the opinion are short, because of the fact that this investment will not be implemented in the near future by the law thus created, of course I sign off on it. During the process, some legal problems will arise, which will, of course, delay this investment. I would ask you to explain why these decisions are to be made in such an unusual way, not in agreement, but after some opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u132	Thank you very much. And Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. The explanatory memorandum to this law states that it is important from the point of view of state security. Is there, therefore, a chance that this investment will be implemented by the Minister of National Defence, which would make it easier, so to speak, to finance the entire project? Or is that what you're going to do? I think it would be the right thing to do. Second question: was it estimated... It probably was, so I would like to ask what is the expected cost of maintaining the water track in this business plan, which will be launched. What's the cost per year? Is this taken into account in the project of this business plan? What would be the annual cost of maintaining this watercourse? And third question: what is the status of Piławska Strait today, in accordance with international maritime law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u134	Thank you. Please, Minister, answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u135	I will start with the issue of opinion and decision-making by regional environmental and voivodeships directorates. Mr Senator, this entry in the proposed act is of course something new, but I absolutely disagree that this is a confusion with confusion, because these entities have proposed the same solution. We wanted to find a solution that would improve the decision-making process It doesn't accelerate, it doesn't replace, it does. Regional Environmental Directorates have proposed such a formula, not another one, and we agreed to it. In agreement with the Minister of the Environment, he is responsible for these bodies. And we're not going to interfere in this, not in this decision, not in this consultation. These are two offices, two bodies, and I think they know best how to conduct the decision-making process, because at the very end They're the ones who'll take responsibility for this. It's the same with the voivods. The Pomeranian Voivodeship will give its consent to the implementation of the investment, because the investment will be on the terra of the Pomeranian Voivodeship, but it must necessarily consult with the Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship, because the remaining investments accompanying this investment will be in the Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship. Well, the port of Elbląg, the water road of the Elbląg is already another voivodship. Senator Klein asked for funding. I do not believe that funding from the state budget on the basis of a multiannual programme is less secure than funding from the MON. [[I didn't say it was less certain, but the budget...]] The cost of maintenance, as I understand it, will not differ from the cost of maintaining other water tracks, approach tracks, whether to the port of Gdańsk or to the port of Gdynia. And it will depend on the movement of the rubble, it will depend on silting, it will depend on the movement of the ships. So at this stage, we can only estimate it. And such estimates were made in the Maritime Office in Gdynia. I serve that information in writing. [[That's in writing, please.]] Piławska Strait is an internal strait at the territorial sea of the Russian Federation. It is, in theory, available for navigation, after every agreement of the Russian Federation, or the dispatcher of the straits, but there is also such a problem that this strait is not used, it is muddy, there is 1,80 m of depth, so a tall person could pass through this strait. Therefore, we must be independent of this strait, we must create our own professional crossing, on which we will have the influence, which we will take care of, which we will deepen. That's it. [[In that case, I ask for a written reply: what is the status of the Piławska Strait under international law, maritime law?]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u136	Good. I'm writing it down. Please take the floor... Once again, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, and then Senator Czerwiński. [[But I'm waiting...]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator. You're Senator Jerzy Wcisla, and then you're Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u137	Thank you. Can I ask you two questions? Because they're connected. [[Yes.]] There's another one... Maybe as a correction I'll add: 1.80 m, Minister, it has a watercourse on the Vistula River on the Russian side, and Piławska Strait has a depth of at least 8 m. [[It's a small difference.]] I have two questions. Minister, the day before yesterday at the committee meeting, you said that this was a success, because I measure the channel by measuring it as a cross-party undertaking. And today you say the Tusk government threw the PiS project in the trash. I'd like you to clarify what you mean by that. Because in my opinion, that's a lie, Minister. I would like to remind you that the government of Jarosław Kaczyński adopted a resolution on the construction of the channel after the lost elections, three days before Jarosław Kaczyński left the cabinet of the President of the Council of Ministers. [[But he did.]] He adopted this resolution, this resolution numbered 18 pages and appealed to a feasibility study done by the City Office in Elbląg, and at my suggestion. So for two years, Jarosław Kaczyński's government has not made a single document concerning the channel by measuring. All the documentation that was produced in connection with this resolution of the Kaczyński government was created by the Government of Law and Justice From the feasibility study through all environmental documents, all the research that was needed... [[It was the Platform that did it...]] [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] I'm sorry, the Civic Platform government. I've already asked the Minister to explain to me... [[Okay, and second question.]] ...which was beneath the statement: the Tusk government threw the project in the trash. And the second question about the current situation. You are the ones who are throwing away the entire achievements of the Civic Platform government, because you are bidding for three locations, while within 8 years one location has been indicated, environmentally justified, with natural compensation and the highest reality of execution. Please tell me: why do you choose three concepts of building the channel by measuring and why these three, not for example. Five?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u138	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and then Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u139	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm gonna ask you a question about this crossing... The Minister mentioned What I didn't know, I confess. That there is a concept that there should be two drawbridges, i.e. in practice, as there will be proper synchronization, actually 24 hours a day there will be travel... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Grzegorz Witkowski: Yes, we will.]] ...because once the ship's in the airlock, it'll take a while to sluice and maneuver these bridges. Well, of course, some travels will have to be done, there will have to be information whether left or right or bridge No. 1 or bridge No. 2 is now ready to cross, but it's easy to organize with today's technical measures. I mean the principle that, in practice, 24 hours a day, in addition to some exceptional situations, the path of this crossing would be ensured. I would like to see that the Minister has confirmed this or has further developed this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u140	Thank you. And the Minister, sir. [[Then the Minister will say we'll try...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u141	According to the designed organisation of traffic and crossings through this airlock 24 hours a day 7 days a week will be a road crossing between the eastern and the west part of the shipping channel. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, [[Thank you.]] Mr. Senator Tight... I don't quite understand the first question, about throwing it in the trash... Is there a channel by measuring it or isn't there? Was there an attempt to make this investment or was it not? [[Of course she was.]] Did... All the documents that the Gdynia Maritime Authority carried out and examined environmental aspects, and the location aspects, were not, as you say, thrown into the basket, but were used for the current work. So you threw away the idea, and only a handful of enthusiasts from the Gdynia Maritime Authority spent eight years trying to make sure it didn't die. And it is not true that you have chosen one location because these documents have been in the European Commission for so many years, and the European Commission asks us: which of these four locations do you like? So we really, really, this project, this environmental decision, the location decision, we're gonna point out a specific location that's gonna be environmentally optimal, localized, economically... The further east to measure, the greater the length of the water track, but on the other hand, the more west, the greater the problems, because Natura 2000, beech reserves... All these questions will be answered by experts and regional environmental management, not by us in the ministry or by the senators, because it is known that a lot of things have to be taken into account and consultations... Didn't I answer that? [[No.]] No? I don't know...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u142	Here you go, Senator Tight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u143	Minister, as a matter of fact, a consortium was set up to build the canal, the leader of which was the maritime office, but in this consortium were representatives of various institutions. In this consortium from the moment of establishment I was also, and I worked on this project. I'm going to say I'm part of a small group of people who have read all the documents on this subject. [[Then we should invite you to cooperate.]] I do not know what the agreement with the European Commission was, but I assure you that one location has been chosen. For a long time it was the location of Skowronka, later, due to the fact that the uncompensating natural compensation of algae prevented the implementation of this investment in Skowronki, it was indicated place 2 km further, Nowy Świat, and it was recommended as the location of the building of the canal by measuring. Environmental studies and all consultations were carried out under this location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u144	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u145	Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, the question is related to the general content of this law. Most of this content is legislation on simplifying or speeding up the procedures for preparing investments, this is the essential part. But there are also rules that apply to administrative proceedings before external authorities, before courts. They narrow down in a way, well, the essential deadlines that will apply. Do you think this will work? Because they're outsiders to the administration. That's one thing. Secondly, shouldn't public procurement rules also be looked at more closely? Because there may also be time slips, and here there is only one article, art. 29, he's talking about this case. Is that clear? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Grzegorz Witkowski: Yes, yes.]] And the second question, it's already so typically detailed. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 22 in the paragraph. 9 is about compensation, I'd say, for residential property, which the owner... Are there real estate in this investment? Is she planned somewhere in the built-up area? I don't think so. The question is, why is this recipe here, whether it can be used, and whether the amount of PLN 10,000 is too small to captivate, well, the man who will have to remove himself from his property, his house, outside... Wouldn't it be better if he just built a house somewhere to get him to do it so I could do it? Did he say no protest? The way you do it, for example. in the case of investments... well, large water tanks. It's moving the whole village, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u146	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u147	When I ask whether the shortening of court time limits will be effective, I answer: yes, Mr Senator, in my view, it will be effective and it will not defy any rule of law. We don't take away appeals, we don't replace appeals or judicial decisions by some other authority, we just shorten time. I think the courts can handle appeals, protests in this case. Besides, that also involves your second question about public procurement. It's like it's all been copied from other specs. Then it worked, then it worked, and it wasn't sued, so we went that way. We don't break down the open door anymore, but if anything went wrong then it was copied. I believe that this is the most effective, it was consulted with specialists and e.g. opinions of the Regional Environment Directorate... We also respond to suggestions from practitioners who used these specifications and made big investments. Damages... In my view, we can't say for sure today whether we're going to have to run a compensation procedure because we don't know the location. As far as the New World is concerned, there is only a forest there, there are plots of the Treasury and there is no need for that, so there may be another location where the plots will appear, and then what? Are we gonna change specials quickly or get stuck in legal disputes? We have this record, we hope it will be done on state land as soon as possible... If your marshal will allow me, I will refer to Senator Vistula's statement... [[Please.]] 'Cause I get the feeling that we're basically in agreement on everything, the problem only in technology and rhetoric... You have a great deal of knowledge, a great deal of experience in this, you are involved in this excavation, so I invite you to cooperate, on our part, there is a will, because we should all want to do the best we can. We're not gonna do it forcefully, kneely, just to show that we can do something. No. It's supposed to serve the generations, let's do it together. Now that we've started, you've continued or not, but let's just leave it at that. We'll keep going. Let's do it together. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u148	Thank you. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go. Mr. Senator George has added some more, hasn't she? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! After your last declaration, I think I have at least three questions to ask, but I'm still going to try to ask these three questions... [[There's three left.]] ...that's still there. Minister, you said that the European Commission demanded that we take a clear position on which of the four locations is finally Well, that's what you said. The most important one or the one we want to promote. I would ask the Minister to answer me in writing or to join this letter in asking the European Commission which of the four... In general, the position of the European Commission, which is precisely what you have said, in which the European Commission demands the following declaration, such and such. That was the first question I'd ask for an answer in writing. Now two short questions. Minister, from what I read in the news. I'm from Pomerania, too, but a little different. than Wcisła, because I, together with Mr Marshal, come from Pomeranian Voivodeship, it follows that in 2015 documentation was submitted to the European Commission. I understand you have a different idea than the one that's been made. The documentation was submitted in 2015 and is 2017. My question is, what have you done in this area for almost two years? That's the first question. And the other. Could the Minister say, in a few sentences, what is so important that you believe will change because you will start the procedure again? - As you said, sir. A special investment on the construction of this crossing?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u150	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u151	I have a few questions, too. I'm glad the Minister changed his rhetoric a little bit. But first of all, the question of a legal nature. Piławska Strait is the internal waters of Russia, in my opinion, and hence these problems. Can execution of the excavation and creation of the island change the status of Piławska Strait? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Will the situation be better for us? Will nothing change in the light of international maritime law? Because they seem to be treated differently... I mean, the internal waters are right now because it's a peninsula. Will this change not create another situation? That's one thing. And secondly, I don't know if you know, Minister, but I twice, when I was a marshal, i.e. in the past days, had a local vision with employees of the maritime authorities of areas of possible excavation or canal. So I'm going to ask you a question... Since the Maritime Office did a great deal on this issue, it was still functioning, no one banned planning work on the construction of this channel. Therefore, I ask you: why was Director Rabbitowski, then head of the Maritime Office, cancelled? He was a man who, in a situation of distance and discussion, led the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u152	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u153	Thank you. Mrs Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the answer to Senator Czarnobaj's question about the European Commission's position will be sent in writing. Yeah, 'cause you know I don't have it on me. About what's changed... If you could remind me... Which has changed that we have to start over. We're not starting over. I mean, we're starting over because there was nothing concrete on the table. The documentation that was made was not the preparation of the investment process from start to finish, environmental consents, etc. These were loose studies, unrelated to the cloud theme. But something was going on. This also corresponds with the answer to the question of Marshal Borusewicz about the Maritime Office in Gdynia. Between 2005 and 2007, the Maritime Authority in Gdynia successfully implemented large investments. Enough to say about the pier in Gdynia, strengthening the quay. Director Rabbitowski is an outstanding specialist. And the Sea and River League... Of course, we have... We know, we know each other, and we have contact. But I don't want to get into personal matters because I don't know them exactly. The Maritime Office is a maritime office, there is continuity of functioning and outstanding specialists were there, there are and, I hope, there will be. Creating an island... At this point, I don't think creating an island... But where? On the Vistula River, on our side? Because... [[No.]] Oh, we're gonna dig up an island, aren't we?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u154	We can insist and say it's still going to be a peninsula, and we can say that this part of the measure has become an island. I ask, which situation is better for us in legal terms, because of the Piławska Strait, which is 8 m and can also be used in the future. And in parallel, it can also be used.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u155	In the future, it can be used... Too bad it hasn't been used up to now, right? Even as we referred to the Russian side. It doesn't make any difference to me... This does not affect our bill and does not affect the construction of the shipping channel. That's it. [[No, no, my question was...]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u156	I'm sorry. My question was about the status of Piławska Strait, then. I mean, if her status changes or she doesn't change.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u157	I don't think he's gonna change. [[Good. That's what I meant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u158	Thank you, Minister. And you're Senator George Wright. You're welcome. And then Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u159	Minister, I am surprised at your stubborn claim that the location in the New World was not complete. I can give you... I know that after the change of government from the sea office the documents concerning the channel disappeared by measure, but I assure you I have these documents in my possession, and I can send them to you. That for a location in the New World is a complete environmental documentation with consultations, economic, are IROPI tests, is the justification of the overriding public interest and are indicated natural compensations. So you have to do it. practically technical design. [[Mr. Senator, but that's what we're gonna have to discuss.]] And my question is... [[Yeah, ask me a question.]] ...a different line. Since you are talking about cooperation and the fact that we want to build together and the economic justification for this construction, it must also be said that the Elbląskie port is currently not prepared for these transhipments that can be... and that there is an economic justification for the channel by measure. In the territorial contract there are certain amounts, i.e. about PLN 150 million, to build a bridge in Nowakow and to make some investments in the port of Elbląg. But this territorial contract, as far as I know, is not by the current government, I would say, continued and implemented. How do you intend to finance these investments, which are necessary to ensure that the channel by measure can be operated to the maximum extent?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u160	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u161	Minister, I would like you to say, about when you believe that the implementation of this investment will start, taking into account that an environmental impact assessment needs to be made again, that there is a Natura 2000 area, that an environmental decision is needed, etc. In addition, many other documents must be obtained before submitting documents for such a decision to the voivodeship. You took a shortcut because it's supposed to be opinions instead of agreements or permits. There's a whole list of these opinions, 11 items. We have opinions here anyway. the competent road manager, the competent railway manager, the competent local management of the voivodship, the district board and the mayor, etc. According to that law, these authorities or those entities have only 21 days to deliver their respective opinions. Well, it's a very short time. And in order for this decision to be final, you have to make a buyout and... well, as far as redemption is concerned, I wouldn't have any doubt about it, because we have experience. According to the Real Estate Management Act, the procedure is in place and I think it will go quickly and smoothly. But then you need a tender for the realization, the choice of the contractor. There will probably still be protests on the way, etc. Minister, as you'd expect. I would have written that down, because I don't know when the next opportunity to meet is when this investment starts?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u162	Thank you. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Investments in the port of Elbląg. We are in constant contact with the port management in Elbląg, we are in contact with the Warmia-Mazury Voivodeship, the Gdynia Maritime Office and the Elbląg delegation. We know how many years of neglect are in terms of access infrastructure to the port of Elbląg. Maybe not so much access as in the harbor itself. The port is a municipal company, applying to various funds in development issues. We support these applications. The S7 road is being built near Elbląg, the passenger terminal in Elbląg is already ready. The port management of Elbląg, the city authorities of Elbląg and the regional authorities can count on our full cooperation and full support in applying for any funds, government or European, for the development of the port. Like any port in Poland, you can count on our help. A programme for the development of small ports is being developed in the Ministry. The port in Elbląg doesn't exactly belong to small ports, but... - Yeah, yeah, yeah, There's also a prognosis. That every year the number of reloaded loads will increase, and if it grows, there will necessarily be a need for more investment. It's a schedule. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 we are giving ourselves and a consortium of three-city companies that have won a tender for the preparation of documentation, these are companies experienced on the market, they know the terrain and all aspects in this area. For the preparation of all this environmental documentation. According to our calculations, an environmental impact report will be carried out in the fourth quarter of this year. We plan to obtain a construction permit in the first half of 2018 and in the second half of 2018 we announce a tender for construction works. So I think you can write that down at the end of next year. It's going to happen... [[I'm writing it down.]] You're welcome. By the end of next year, construction works will begin. It's an ambitious deadline, but it's not unrealistic.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u164	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj asks a question, and then Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u165	Minister, you haven't answered my question about... In 2015 documentation was submitted... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, may I have a word with you, please? Hello! In 2015 there was complex documentation, and we have 2017. What happened in this period? That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to ask once again, so that the Minister can confirm. So what was submitted to the European Commission wasn't documentation, as you said, just loose studies, right? I would ask you to answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u166	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u167	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I will ask for a written reply, because here there has been some controversy regarding parameters of Piławska Strait. Minister says it's 1,80 m, senators said, someone said it was even a few times more, so I have a request for such information as the parameters of Piławska Strait from the point of view of shipping. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u168	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u169	Mrs. Marshal, if I may, I will answer both of these questions in writing, as the senator has requested.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u170	Good. [[How about mine now?]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Grzegorz Witkowski: No, we will also reply in writing.]] In writing, too. [[Oh, okay.]] Does anyone else want to ask questions? No. Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Grzegorz Witkowski: Thank you.]] I inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Kazimierz Kleina and Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. You're welcome, Senator. Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The history of building a canal by measuring against appearances is not long. The conviction that construction is still a subject of political disputes, not a substantive dispute, is that PiS has been using this investment for election campaign purposes for 8 years of coalition rule. It is therefore worth recalling today that during the PiS regime, no document was created concerning this investment, and the resolution on the construction of the Kaczyński channel was adopted only when he left the Prime Minister's office after the lost elections. This resolution had 18 pages and there were a number of substantive shortcomings in it. At that time I published a book about the channel, a book that has 152 pages, which is about 10 times more than a resolution, a book based on the research of Professor Unioral of the 1990s. When I showed it to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs of that time Mr. Minister, it was then that the Law and Justice Government worked well on this issue. The Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs said this: Mr Wcisła, based on this book, and we have this book, we cannot build the channel, we need a feasibility study. This study hasn't been done by that government for two years. But this feasibility study was created, but this feasibility study was done by the City Hall in Elbląg. And to this feasibility study, the government resolution refers. For the next eight years Nor was it that the Civic Platform government questioned whether it had rejected the resolution, but it was implemented by a lot of research, among others. environmental research, which lasted 3.5 years and the analyses needed to build this channel, which also resulted from public consultation. I'll add And it's very important. This investment in Natura 2000 in Europe takes place for several years, of which the period of physical implementation is usually 3 years and for 12 and 15 years documents are created, mostly environmental. In 2015, when the PiS came to power, it received a ready concept with the location indicated, justifying the existence of overriding public interest, with economic analyses, with all environmental studies and consultations, including those concerning the cross-borderity and safety of the groundwater decks of fresh water, and with the European Commission's report on the channel documentation. In line with the logic of the PiS, this should be done: complete the agreement with the European Commission, introduce the proposed changes, carry out the latest public consultation and tender for the construction of the channel. Such a tender could actually have been announced last year. And what did PiS do? First of all, he broke the agreement with the European Commission and then tendered for the documentation for the three locations of the channel, thus withdrawing for several years. In this way, the effects of several years of work, which was carried out during the PO-PSL coalition governments, were thrown into the basket and the winner of the tender was given a very difficult task. Well, during the year, it has to do an environmental analysis of the three locations indicated, while bird migrations in such areas are normally tested for 3 years. Ladies and gentlemen, this documentation will be a bounty for environmentalists. The current special act is intended to speed up this investment, but I will remind you that in 2007. PiS made a commitment to build a channel from scratch within six years because there was no documentation at the time. Today, after taking over power in 2015, the PiS already has documentation with all consultation and environmental research, but it needs 7 years to carry out the same task. And I still need a specialty for that. Such a narrative raises suspicions A lot of people talk about it. You want to skip environmental consultations and economic justifications. Few people believe that the interests of state security are really of strategic importance here. This special act is not needed to take over land, Minister, which is justified by the adoption of such specialities in the case of the construction of motorways. In such a situation landowners are unknown. These are different private owners, so these processes take a very long time, but here it is known where these investments can be implemented, and it is also known that there is only public property there: local governments, maritime authorities or State Forests. Therefore, the main task of the specialist will unfortunately be to circumvent the public and environmental consultations. Let us try to answer the question of how environmental organizations will behave. Of course, they'll all protest and get attached to the trees. Which isn't so dangerous in my mind. And above all, they will start protesting in the European institutions. They will raise objections to the European Commission, and if this does not work, they will turn to the European Court of Justice and we will have a repeat of what happened in the Rospuda Valley in 2007 and this, please you, will be the end of this investment. For several or several years no one will return to this investment, because after 15 years of talking about the channel and spending several million zlotys on various kinds of research, the society cannot be convinced again that this investment has a substantive justification and that it is not some political hucpa. I can't believe that the PiS government doesn't take such a scenario into account today, the more that the Minister of Maritime Affairs at the meeting in Elbląg said that Polish environmental environment, no, he has such knowledge They'll be on Moscow's behalf trying to stop this investment. This is a very serious accusation, this is making environmentalists enemies of this investment. And I, ladies and gentlemen, have been working with the Russians in the field of maritime transport for many years, and I have never heard any protests about the Vistula canal. This is not enough, three and four years ago I published a book on Vistula Bay, where a Russian representative of Rosmorport proves that building a channel by measuring will increase the port's port capacity in Kaliningrad for the service of the European Union. Not much, the government withdraws from a territorial contract in which the investments necessary for the functioning of the channel by measure were secured. The channel by measuring without investment in Elbląg is like a freeway without exits. The channel is also connected by measure with a programme for the regeneration of waterways. Unfortunately, in this revitalization program, despite my talks with ministers, the Vistula in the hierarchy is in the last place, i.e. the revitalization of the Vistula will actually be carried out at the end of the 20's. If it is assumed that the channel will be built in 2022, these Russian goods will be able to influence the Vistula River in 2028 if it goes well, because this investment is also very dangerous in my opinion, because it is very capital intensive. So I ask why the government did not finish what the Civic Platform and PSL government prepared, threw away this documentation, fully consulted, into the basket and instead of those procedures introduces new ones that will create enemies among environmentalists, in European structures and also in Russia? Unfortunately, High Senate, I see one justification and one explanation. Perhaps the government simply does not want to make this investment. Today, he wants someone to interrupt him, and for that he needs enemies. That is why these enemies are already showing and choosing these procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, these comments are presented to you by a person who, by measuring the channel, worked and for a coalition led by Law and Justice, and for a coalition led by the Civic Platform, and today also cooperates in various areas with the Ministry of the Environment and with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. I have encouraged Members of the Civic Platform to vote in favour of this law, as you can see, effectively, and I also urge the senators, above all the Civic Platform, to vote in favour of this law. But at the same time, I'm a person who doesn't see the logic in the government's actions, who apparently wants to make this investment. I would like to make these comments. also so that, in case it turns out that I'm right, no one could say that such a scenario could not be predicted. And, High Senate, I would also like to say that, as never before, since I've been in the Senate, I'd like to be wrong about what I'm saying today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u172	Thank you, Senator. And there you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that, after years of discussion, finally in a legal way, we are going to join the implementation phase of this project, which, in my deep conviction, is a strategic project, is a project that is as worth implementing as much as possible, a project that is needed. I listened attentively to the speech of my predecessor, Senator Vistula, and I am glad that he is also in favour of building this crossing. I am all the more pleased that as a senator, he represents the Elbląg district, and therefore he is a man who has known and heard about this problem for years. I don't want to enter into a substantive dispute because I think he might have some subtext, maybe not political, but a bit ambitious. It seems to me that in the case of this project, we need to act on a principle: all hands on deck. The senator does not question the social, economic and economic conditions for the construction of this crossing, which is crucial for the development of Elbląg and the Elbląg sub-region, and in some ways also for the rest of the country. It is also important for strategic reasons, of a defensive nature, but I would no longer like to go into these details, because the subject of measuring, the subject of sailing in the Vistula River are issues that were already under particular supervision in the times of the Polish People's Republic. I am glad that this bill is, and I am glad that this project assumes some kind of flexibility. What do I mean? First of all, I mean, maybe you should consider it right away. Since there is not yet a technical phase, the executive is to expand this trough, the profile of the crossing, so that more submersible units can enter immediately. The Minister, answering questions, mentioned that there is an opportunity to deepen up to 8 m, but perhaps 6 m would be a rational solution. I don't want to talk about it, I'm not a specialist in this field. In principle, however, it is important that the way in which this investment is carried out is as rational, flexible as possible and creates different options when it comes to the use of this waterway in the future. So I'm happy for you. I am personally convinced by this transport solution, which, according to the Minister's assurances... I'm talking about traffic and communication between the east and the west of the canal. I hope we can do this in practice... Well, I don't believe that for 24 hours, seven days a week, if there's any increased traffic on the channel, we can maintain a full path. The point is to make it rational in some way, e.g. increased traffic during the night, when the traffic is necessarily less. These are issues that will certainly also require consultation with the local community, especially with the citizens of the Maritime Krynica. They are quite concerned about their tourist activities and the need to provide comfort to the guests who will come to them. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation is working to pave the way for water routes that have been neglected. I am pleased because there is a very ambitious programme for the recovery of the Oder, the Vistula and the integration of our inland shipping routes into the European network; this programme is needed. It is extremely expensive because negligence started in the 1960s, i.e. since the second half of the Polish People's Republic, and basically throughout the third period of the Republic of Poland this infrastructure was neglected until it finally feral and not suitable for the kind of operation it should be suitable for. And it is known that water transport is very attractive, very competitive and very eco-friendly, so it is as much in line with the priorities for transport policy within the European Union. So there's a certain That's what I'd say. A meeting of these determinants. I hope that this will result in a full implementation of this programme and that we will restore navigability to these routes. Within this framework, of course, the Elbląg Canal investment is also important, as the water transport system will remain in a certain convergence. High Izbo, I would like to say that I absolutely support this law and I would like to wish the government and, above all, those responsible for the implementation of this project so that the project can be implemented efficiently and in the best way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u174	Thank you, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Your Senate, there is such a pleasant atmosphere here. Disputes are actually only about whether or not someone has asked the European Union whether or not he has asked and what he has asked. So I'm very sorry, everyone, and I'm very sorry, and I'm sorry, sir, but I'm going to disturb this atmosphere. Well, I'm definitely against this project. I am opposed to digging through measurements for the following reasons. We're still talking about the dig itself, where he's supposed to be, what depth he's supposed to have, etc., etc., but we have to remember that we have to get these ships to Elbląg. In this area, the average depth of the Vistula River is between 2 and 3 m. And we're talking about ships that have a dive of 4 or 5 m. Even a moment ago, Senator Jackowski said he'd want it to be 8 m. That means at a distance of a few, it's probably 7 kilometers you have to do. huge excavation, then constantly deepen it, destroying completely the entire ecological structure, which in the flood The Vistula is found. There's talk of safety here, Navy ships, etc. Why do they have to go there? For what purpose? They won't be able to swim after the Vistula flood anyway, because it's too shallow. So the only thing they can do is swim through the dig and swim... [[Cushions.]] ...to Elbląg. That's it. And there they will bravely defend, so to speak, the territory. [[The pillows can.]] It just doesn't make sense. Let's move on. As far as nature is concerned, of course, it is a matter of breeding bird positions. There's a lot of places like this out there. That's even... Whoever was there knows. This is a beautiful, wild area, already one of the few who now just want to destroy themselves. But apart from the birds, it's a spawning spot. That's where millions of herrings, zanderers... And the moment we cut it with this dig and these ships... I don't know how many of them are gonna get in there. I hear a few a day here. Well, for a few a day, I don't know if it's worth it at all? But let's just say there's gonna be more. They're gonna cause... I'm just getting it from the professionals' information. With shallow water, the spread of waves is very strong and, of course, affects the whole environment. Now the economic benefits. I understand Elbląg. Of course for Elbląg, I'm abstracting everything here. There's always going to be a benefit. And at the moment when you want to put 1 billion PLN on this excavation, to deepen and adapt the port, etc. Of course, the Elbląg doesn't teach money, the government teaches it. Elbląg, of course, will take it. But, ladies and gentlemen, there are assumptions. Elbląg is now reloading about 200,000 tons of goods per year. These are goods that come mainly from Russian ports. And now I'm asking you, what's gonna change if this dig goes through? I mean, it's assumed that there would just be other goods coming from other ports. And I'm gonna ask, why should they come? After all, on the way they have Gdansk, they have Gdynia, I am no longer talking about earlier ports, which are much better prepared. Then why should they come there? E.g. We have a port in Kolobrzeg. This is port and fishing, and yacht, but also commercial, of course. He's got a very good attitude. You don't have to dig anything up. It is remote from the main Polish ports, i.e. it can possibly compete with them. How much does he reload a year? Under 200,000 tons. And here it is assumed that this will happen even 3.5 million t. I would like to know who will bring these goods there and why, if on the way there is much better conditions in other Polish ports? Let me put it this way: if the main argument is that this is about the recovery of the area, then this is Elbląga and the surrounding area, this is a good goal. It's... Maybe we should discuss another solution. This dig, dig, dredging, etc., let alone environmental damage... The Minister of Cost didn't give it, but it's estimated differently. It's probably gonna be about 1 billion zlotys. Maybe we should discuss with the local government that they have 1 billion zlotys at their disposal to increase the attractiveness of this area, create new jobs, etc. I think they're gonna use it better than this project. This project, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, is economically uneconomical and ecologically barbaric. I'll vote no. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u176	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be brief after my predecessors... I don't want to repeat myself. I'll start with the Minister's optimism. I'm glad that ghost is still that optimism is. I have written down here that construction works will begin at the end of next year. I will not only mention this to the Minister because I have such notes made more. Now it's a matter of procedure. Well, when you start something over, you start a process, you create a specialty... It's a little different from the last one. I have some experience in making decisions based on specialties. I've had a chance to spend a lot of them, and I know what these procedures look like. So I can say, Minister, that environmental impact assessment, Natura 2000, environmental decision, appeals and everything that will happen along the way... So, in this time you said that construction would begin... The real term is a year and a little bit, taking into account the regulations that you are introducing. You're used to making opinions here. There have always been opinions in all these laws, and here it is similar. There's no more. agreements between one voivode and the other, between the general management and a party, only an opinion. So whether it's like this or not, we're moving forward. This is going. A little shortcut. The kuriozum, as I have already said, is that one decision is made by the voivode, the other is an environmental decision, the general director in another voivodship... Well, it hasn't been done yet, but okay, it can be regulated by law. Maybe it'll work. Maybe it'll work. It's hard for me to say, we're gonna judge that. All these documents that need to be collected first, and then, when the investor asks for a decision on the implementation, when you need to have additional documents... There's a whole list of them, like 11 positions. These are, of course, only opinions. Arrangements e.g. with road managers, railroads... 'Cause I don't think the railroad's listed there, I don't know, I didn't analyze that episode. After all, these are matters that need to be agreed on, not just an opinion. This procedure, of course, requires a certain time. Without getting into the validity of the entire investment, it must be said that the process of starting over this investment described in the specialization requires a certain time. That is why I do not share this optimism. From experience I can say that this start date for this investment is definitely unrealistic, but it will always be possible to say that something has been realized, something has been done. Let's just hope it's not that in two and a half years, if there's another election, the successors are gonna start over because it's not gonna lead to anything. So let us also respect the work of the predecessors, what they did, let us try to continue for the sake of the entire investment. And since the investment is of great importance to the region, there is no doubt. It can be discussed on its merits, but it is certainly an important investment and I will also be willing to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u178	Thank you, Senator. I'd like you to take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u179	He provoked me to speak again, High Senate, Senator Marek Borowski. I don't think I can, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, convince you to change your position on the vote, but I want to clarify a few things. The Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula It is a water road leading from Klaipeda through Kaliningrad, Berlin to ports in Antwerp and Rotterdam and as a rule it is a transport network. This transport network is part of the European transport policy, which assumes that part of road transport must be eliminated, because it is the most ecologically harmful, dangerous 50,000 people die under the wheels, practically in shipping people do not die, these are individual cases And more expensive, less economical. If we're talking about the Vistula flood, what's the situation? This flood is already functioning as a transport road, there is a watercourse, Minister, and this watercourse is 90 km long. If we build a channel by measuring, the track will shorten to 9 km, if it were the New World, in the case of Skowronek it would be 7 km. Now imagine this situation. Today, after this track, shoulders with a capacity of 500 t can swim. You're talking about 200 or 300 thousand t that reloads the port in Elbląg. This is due to the current international situation, relations with Russia and certain blockades. However, when the channel is built, Russia will not be able to block transport to Elbląg, because all the units that will leave the port of Kaliningrad will sail to the sea, and at sea it is their decision whether to enter the port of Elbląg, Hamburg or any other. Anyway, today, let's assume that the 400 thousand t between the port of Kaliningrad and the port of Elbląg was already carried 700 thousand t, but let's take 400 thousand t on the shoulders with a capacity of 500 tons, that's 800 barges per year. The construction of a channel with a depth of 5 m will allow entry into the port of Elbląg units with a capacity of 4 000 t. 800 vessels with a capacity of 4 000 t means transport of 3.2 million t over a length of 9 km, not 90 km. That's the environmental benefit. How many times will the danger of collision, the ecological disaster caused by the spill be greater if ships or shoulders sail 90 km along the Vistula River, and what is it if they sail 9 km? Of course, this includes all the external costs that I was talking about: accident, consignation, what today is a determinant for developing waterways as those that are ecologically and in all other respects. One more thing. We don't need a port the size of Gdansk or Kaliningrad. European ports are operated by others, e.g. The port in Rotterdam is operated by 120 so-called. Feeder ports, ports that work with it and transport cargo across the land. The port in Rotterdam thanks to these 120 ports has a range of 1 thousand 200 km. Gdansk has no such port. In the interest of Gdansk, it is in the vital interest of Gdansk to build a port in Elbląg, the next port in the vicinity of Bydgoszcz, the next in Warsaw and subsequent ports in the western direction. The AGN Convention includes 10 ports which should operate on the Polish inland waterways, and one of these ports is the port in Elbląg. And practical information. In 2016, exports from the port of Gdansk required 500 000 trucks to enter this port. These 500 thousand trucks drove through Gdansk, they drove all the highways just because there are no inland ports. I drive around Europe and I'm passionate about inland waterway transport. When I was driving around and watching it happen in Holland, driving on the highways there... Besides, I've already got a little bit of a curve in my head that I'm counting how many cars pass me and how many of those cars passing by me are those with containers. Well, when you're driving on the Polish highways, you can check it out. You will pass about 30 container trucks per 100 cars from the opposite side. On the Russian border It's already 50-50. In Germany, it is about 10 and 15 trucks. In Holland, when I was there for two weeks, I encountered 9 cars, and usually this is 1.3 cars. In Poland so many people die under the wheels of cars on highways, among others. because we have too many trucks. These cars need to be stuffed from Polish roads, and the cargo transferred onto rail and shipping. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u180	Thank you, Senator. [[Senator Klein always claps.]] Please take the floor... [[Especially Senator Wcisla.]] [[Ours are.]] [[...Senator Probier.]] ...Senator Krystian Probier. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Anyone who wants to talk can still sign up. There you go... [[But I signed up.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I know, but I just hear that others are bothering you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Well, in connection with the duties of the Senator, the rapporteur, as it were, was responsible for this discussion, so let me literally say two or maybe three sentences at the end. Well, I am very pleased with this discussion. All arguments for and against this investment are presented here. I congratulate the Ministry on the courage to undertake such a project, and I would advise all malcontents to be more optimistic. I read just now on the Internet that the second thread of the Suez Canal was built within 11 months. And if I had to bet with those bookies I was talking about, I'd bet that this project would be on time. Thank you for your attention. [[It'll be quicker, then.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u182	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Czesław Ryszka and Maciej Łuczak made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. And let me remind you that the Minister has committed himself to answering in writing the questions of Senators Kazimierz Kleina and Leszek Czarnobaj. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the bill amending the law on bailiffs and executions. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is contained in print No 371 and the report of the committee In print No 371 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Lydia Staron, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the two committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. The report concerns a draft law amending the law on bailiffs and executions. This law, and as a follow-up to the resolution that we propose in this draft, executes the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Court's ruling took place on 13 October 2015, but unfortunately until today the amendment of the rules has not yet entered into force and to this day, despite the fact that the Court of Justice considered that they are incompatible with the Constitution, they are very damaging to people every day. What is the matter with the Court's ruling itself? The Court's ruling concerns Article. 51, refers to the activities of the eviction bailiff. The Court in its ruling, which was the result of not so much the same rule... Because the recipe can't be read differently. But this judicial case-law has shaped the wrong case, as the Court has stated... The Court stated that these provisions are non-constitutional if they are understood as they have been for years by the courts. The courts have just ruled against people. And in that sense, these provisions are incompatible with the Constitution. But if you read them directly, where there's a fee for certain activities... They might. In addition, the Court of Justice should be given a different view of this. The Court held that Article. It is about paragraph 51. Points 3 and 2 of this Article, in so far as it does not provide for a separate fixed fee for the emptying of dwellings from property and persons where the debtor has voluntarily carried out his duty after being called by the bailiff within the prescribed time limits, is incompatible... And here the Court has laid down the rules of the Article. 64 and Article 64 2, i.e. he referred to property rights and, above all, social justice. What is this ruling about, in human terms? This ruling simply means that, at present, the situation is that, when the bailiff performs his activities and these activities involve eviction, at first he takes from the creditor the entire fee, the fixed fee for these activities. And that's a few, several thousand zlotys. And whether he does anything, whether he sends a single letter or sends two letters or actually carries out these activities, he'll still take the charge. And then, despite the fact that e.g. After a call with an indication... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, senators and ministers, if you want to talk...]] ...a certain term... The bailiff shall be sent to the person who is to have the eviction carried out, the letter, including the letter, shall contain a period of 14 days indicated and shall be moved out. And that person moves out, emptys the premises, and the bailiff doesn't even know where that person moved out. She comes in, gives him the keys to his apartment. And yet the bailiff, who has already taken from the creditor a total fee, a fixed fee on the basis of the said provisions, then collects several or several thousand zlotys, 12 thousand zlotys, 13 thousand zlotys, 17 thousand zlotys, 8 thousand zlotys, 6 thousand zlotys, 5 thousand zlotys, depending on the number of chambers that were in the apartment. The Court found that these are the rules If you understand them as the courts have understood them over the years Incredibly unfair, very hurtful. They're causing another sanction. Because apart from the fact that someone is evicted, these laws are causing another sanction, and they impose an additional penalty on him, which is disproportionate, above all. This was also the case with the earlier judgment of the bailiff. The work of the bailiff absolutely does not correspond to these amounts. That's why two committees, the Legislative Commission... Because first, as we all know, the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal are carried out by the Legislative Commission. The Marshal then handed over this draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which had already drawn up a report. What do these two committees propose in this report? They suggest, of course, that you adopt the following solutions, which... first of all, we set a temporary fee. So at the very beginning, when you don't even know if you're going to move... And sometimes the bailiff doesn't send a single handwriting and the person moves out. And then he gets the whole fee, all that money. So we're going to set a 10% interim fee. average monthly salary. And that's kind of the beginning of this road. Other provisions in Article 49a remain unchanged, but we add an article. 49b and then we already distinguish If the bailiff has successfully done his job, we'll have to supplement it with a fixed fee, and we'll set it at 20%. the average salary, that is, this fee after the performance of the operation will have to be supplemented; and if voluntarily... It is appropriate to award those who voluntarily submit to this execution. This is for the benefit of both the creditor and the debtor. And then we set a fee of 1/25 of the average salary. And we propose in this project that there should be no such charge if the debtor moves out before the bailiff takes action. It seems absolutely logical and understandable. Why would someone pay if the bailiff didn't do anything, didn't even send a single handwriting? And it's worth noting here that for all the other activities, when the bailiff does anything... All expenditure shall be covered separately. Because apart from the fact that there's a fee that we're setting, and today's rules also determine, for specific actions, there's also expenses. If the bailiff sends a handwriting, the handwriting takes the money separately. If e.g. For the eviction itself, he'll call a moving company or a locksmith or whatever, it's expenses. And these are the separate expenses that are not covered by the fee that the bailiff takes into his pocket. That's what it looks like. So in the following article. 49b we determine the amount when the operations are effective, and we say what it looks like if the debtor voluntarily fulfilled this benefit. Another thing we're changing. We're talking about all non-cash benefits here. Because what else did the Court say? He said something very important that it is not just about this article. The Court has already said, in its final phase, that it asks the legislator to carry out a reflection; that the result of this judgment should be a reflection of the legislator on the recasting of the current mechanism for the collection of fixed charges. So he said the following thing: it can't be so unfair that when the bailiff does the job, whether it's eviction, whether it's possession, whether it's taking things away. So we're talking about these non-cash benefits, and it's taking the whole charge. Whether he does this or not, he immediately says, creditor, pay the whole thing. Then he takes it away from the debtor. So the Court said that this applies to all non-monetary charges. In this respect, we also propose changes to the article. 50 and 54. And one more thing that's very important. We also propose that the Article be repealed. 57. What does this article say? Today's situation is this: if, even for the activities of this eviction or other activities, the bailiff calls a police officer, then... Who's taking the money for a police officer who works for public money to ensure the safety of this execution? For that money according to today's regulations is taken by the bailiff. Not an officer, not someone else, just a bailiff. And he's taking 1/25 of his average salary. We say that this is an unacceptable situation, because about 1 thousand zlotys take the bailiff for calling the officer who gives the assistance, that is, ensuring security; that the bailiff takes the money for this operation, and after all this officer is assisting him. That's why we're repealing the article here. 57. Finally, we also introduce transitional provisions. What are the transitional provisions about? It's important because it's an art. 2. They say that the provisions of this new law shall apply to pending enforcement proceedings not completed until the date of entry into force of this Act. In short, we put the matter as follows: if money has not been enforced in accordance with these non-constitutional rules, which are so unfair and so harmful, then new rules must be applied to all these proceedings. Just a few more words. I know the senators would like to vote as soon as possible, but this is a very important matter. This bill is really important. I'll tell you another thing: every day when these laws are gone, he calls for vengeance, because every day, today, yesterday, the day before yesterday Despite the Court's ruling, bailiffs collect these large, non-constitutional fees first from creditors and then from debtors. I even recently intervened in the case of a woman who borrowed 20,000 credits to pay the bailiff for the eviction. So this isn't a matter to be dealt with in a month, six months from now. This is yesterday's case, and that's why it's so important. And a few more words about the procession itself. Commissions, first the Legislative Commission, then with the Rule of Law Commission... [[Voice from the Chamber: Human Rights and Petitions.]] Human Rights and Petitions... I have to learn that because that name is a little different than in the Seym. So these two committees have proposed such solutions, of course, after they have been agreed with the Ministry of Justice. The first speech of the Ministry of Justice took place in the last days of January. The Legislative Commission proposed a slightly different provision, first of all it called it an advance payment. And a little bit different. that's all she said, but the ministry, in absolute support of the idea of these solutions, had a negative reaction to the name itself and to those solutions that... [[20 minutes.]] Please? [[20 minutes to report.]] Have I exceeded my limit? [[Well, Mr. Senator, I'm the one who watches the time. Proceed.]] My you... that much? I was very brief. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Proceed.]] I'm just finishing up. Just finishing up. [[We're in no hurry. We've got all day today.]] Then, on February 17th, we received a positive position of the Ministry. The Ministry indicated that the entire team was preparing a new law on bailiffs and executions and a bill on bailiff costs that would be resolved. Well, I hope so, at least. All these problems, however, even if these laws were to come into effect fairly quickly, these two or three articles are still a matter for now, for now. They must enter into force as soon as possible, while this large, large bill, which will be proceded together with the bail-in bill, will require a number of committee meetings and hours of work. Therefore, in order to proceed as efficiently as possible, the joint committees accepted the proposals of the Ministry of Justice proposed in a letter dated 27 February. Actually, it could be said that it was primarily about naming, the temporary fee, the first initial fee plus other solutions... That is why I recommend to the High House, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators with all my conviction about this injustice and the need for these rules to be swiftly implemented, in order to adopt and vote on this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u184	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the Legislative Commission has also authorised Senator Lydia Staron to represent her. I don't see anyone who wants to ask questions. Thank you. Is the representative of the government, Minister Patryk Jak, wishing to speak on the bill presented? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u185	Dear Marshal, High Senate! This submission in just one passage concerns the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the rest is already very debatable, in my opinion, creativity. The most important element of this bill is... The Ministry of Justice has prepared a draft bill on bailiffs, the first comprehensive project in 19 years, an amendment. Next week, this project will be discussed by the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers. It is already on a fast legislative path, where we can actually only count differences in days. Therefore, I do not see any reason why we would have, of course, in my view It is now a project that would be valid for a few or several days, especially since many solutions in this project, as I mentioned, are debatable. The most important element is that the proposed solutions would concern past bail-in activities, including cases where there are final judgments, which, of course, expose the entire draft law to question. It is easy to challenge the very idea that we have. I'd like the High Senate to know that we've done a really gigantic job to sort things out and civilize the issues of bailout work. But it's not like we're just trying to see the debtor's problem because we see the creditor's problem. Two draft laws, which soon the High Senate, I hope, will see the first concerns fees, and the second concerns bailiffs They will result in a full, comprehensive discussion about what execution should look like in Poland and how bailiffs should work. I understand that some of the objectives of this project are noble, and we would sometimes like to undo what has happened so far, to change the past, but unfortunately from a legal point of view it cannot be done. There are other methods that will allow those who are harmed by bailiffs to fight for reparation. However, the adoption of a law which would not take into account final judgments of courts would, say, be qualitatively questionable. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we do not agree with the system in which the initial fee, i.e. the advance, would apply first. Whatever we call it. And then the bailiffs would calculate the final fee. In my opinion, this gives the dishonest bailiffs a very large area to manipulate. That's why in our draft law, which, as I mentioned, Soon, I hope, will go to the High House, these fees are uniform. In general, we are going to ensure that all the bailiff fees are unified so that the bailiffs have less opportunities for various types of manipulation. Introduction of the initial fee and final fee Unfortunately, it gives a great deal of scope for action that we want to avoid. The simplest method is one in which, as a country, we determine one amount; then it is easier to fight also to the debtor, because the more transparent the system is, the more likely the debtor is to find himself in this system. For this reason, the government has a negative opinion on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u186	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. [[Senator Mammy.]] Senator Mammoths came forward. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask. This law was consulted with the Ministry earlier at committee meetings What was the Ministry's opinion before? As far as I know. I am a member of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, and it follows that the Ministry has agreed to this proposal and has not submitted any comments. And the other thing, what Senator Staron said. Minister, we really can't, we who accept in our offices on Mondays people hurt by bailiffs today just under the law... It's what the senator emphasized, it's that the debtor pays for his debt, and yet the bailiff charges him all the costs. It's such a basic injustice. Every single day... And I'm sure it happens very often. So every day of the corpse is for us who sit here and who are trying to counteract human harm, some kind of failure. With all due respect... I know it's being drafted in the Ministry by a law that comprehensively solves the bailiffs' problem, because that's of course something that needs to be done, but here we shouldn't even be wondering for a minute, but we should introduce this judgment to the Constitutional Court right away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u188	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u189	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Dear Senator, As far as I know, in this particular area, I represent the Ministry of Justice and have never expressed a positive opinion on this project. So are my lawyers. They were only working on legislative elements, for which they were granted consent. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to something: it is not that the project is being developed. He's already developed, he's ready. For many months there has been a consultation on a large, first draft law for more than 19 years, in which we have rewritten a system related to bailiffs, so to speak. Besides, I want to point out that we're not going to solve any problem that way when we solve one problem, we're going to create another problem. In my opinion, if we start introducing some of these provisions backwards, we'll be right there. Well, that's right. There will be critics who will question the whole idea that the senator was talking about. We must act wisely if we have the same idea if we have the same idea. about how to solve this problem. In addition, we are introducing a very complex system which, in my view, from the point of view of the debtor, the weakest one, creates another problem. The system of so-called pre-payments and final charges. What we propose in the project will consequently mean that the debtor will simply pay less. You're proposing that he pay more. And finally, one last thing, I mean, time. We're talking about a few days. If the senator could give me a guarantee that it's... In my opinion, this project, even if we had adopted it, would have waited for the whole legislative process, including the opinion of the government for which we are responsible in this part. So, in my opinion, the senator is not at all able to guarantee that this project will be adopted faster than it is going to the permanent committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u190	Thank you, Minister. Senator Zientarski... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] There you go. [[I'm sure this project will be quicker. Thank you.]] Thank you. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u191	Minister, for many, many years we have developed a principle that has never been questioned. Namely, despite reporting information about very often advanced work on a project that coincides with the execution of judgments or a wider one, as you said here, we have done, so to speak, our own. And this project was... The projects met in the Seym and created, so to speak, a wider scope for discussion. Do you see any danger in view of the fact that this project will be discussed in parallel with your project, which is advanced? Just some elements may be accepted and presented, as I said, as if a wider range... That was the practice. And not only did it not harm legislation as a whole, but it enriched it. After all, the last word will belong to the Sejm, which will undoubtedly be the opinion of the Ministry, which is also your suggestion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u192	Thank you very much. If you want to respond, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u193	Dear Marshal, High Senate, yes, Senator, I generally agree with you. And I also stress: we're not working, but the project is ready. We've run out of months of consultation... [[All right, he'll meet you in the Seym...]] ...there were over 150 different kinds of comments to it, which we just finished discussing at the next agreement conference, it was very hard work. And, of course, we are now starting the legislative process. I am absolutely open to your proposals at committee meetings. But it is my duty today to respond, to express my position on the project that I have in front of me. If this proposal refers to the fact that we will be able to apply different fees to executions which have already ended with final judgments and for which these fees have been collected, I apologize, but this does not fit into the Polish legal system. Even if I wanted it to be that way...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u194	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. I inform you that none of your senators have written down... Ma'am? [[I'm just finishing up.]] Good. I'll inform your senators that no one has written down... [[Voice from the gym: But the senator wants to perform.]] If the senator wants you to, you need to be in the discussion right now. Senator Lydia Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u195	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, of course I will try very briefly. I will only refer in total to the words of the Minister, but I will also quote two sentences from the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. Because it was the Court who decided this case. This isn't about convictions, it's about bailiffs' prior orders. And the Court itself stated in that judgment that, I quote: "The final statement of non-constitutionality challenged in the present case will lead to an assessment of the legality of the bailiff's order based on them and setting the costs of enforcement proceedings. From assessing the constitutionality of the contested provisions After all, the Court considers them to be non-constitutional, because it is necessary to assess the legality of the provision of which the contested lack of regulation has been determined (the unconstitutionality of the basis of the bailiff's order, which justifies its content, entails the failure of the provision itself). So the Court has already decided that. And in addition to that... Well, all you have to do is refer to the Supreme Court resolution, which also I don't want to quote anymore, because it's quite long, but... In the Judicat, it was explained that the deliberate execution costs were to be established in the enforcement proceedings from which they arose and should in principle be incurred in the proceedings. And it goes on to say that the link between execution, in-kind provision and cost fixing and the mere execution of those costs to the creditor... etc. It is said that the whole course, from start to finish, is the procedure... So it's like the answer to this... And one more thing. I can only plead... But it's all the committee members who know, and the legislative, and the other, because we've been waiting for a position on February 27th. There is a proposal for these provisions in this position. After all, we have adopted exactly these provisions into the project, yet with some sort of justification. And here's where I'd like to... I don't know if this should be done right now, but I wanted to make a formal application... Because this is where I'm told that... [[No...]] The motion for this to be voted out at this meeting. Is he unnecessary? [[Do you need it?]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] Oh, it's not. [[No, because there are no legislative proposals.]] [[No, because there are no legislative proposals.]] Oh, okay. Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u196	If there were legislative proposals, yes, such a proposal would be needed. Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Who signed up? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only involve voting. It shall be held together with other votes. I'm declaring a recess for an hour... [[Voice from the room: Still announcements.]] Oh, the adverts. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u197	Thank you very much. Meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the requests submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Act on Competitions of the Doctor and the Dentist and the Act on the Collection, Storage and Transplanting of Cells, Tissues and Organs, Senate Printing No. 430, will take place today immediately after the announcement of a break in Senate sitting in room 176. Second Communication: the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the metropolitan union law in the Śląskie voivodship will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u198	Thank you. Dismissed until 2.50 p.m. And at 2.50 p.m., there'll be a vote. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 51 to 14 minutes 50]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u199	Please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the area of transmission networks... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Senator Fedorovich. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, if I were to agree with the Marshal of the Senate, I could take the Senate 30 seconds and...]] You're welcome. [[Thank you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u200	Dear Marshal, Dear colleagues, Senators! Yesterday one of the greatest men, poets, Mr. Wojtek, Wojciech Młynarski left us. I'm sorry to be so rude, but he was very close to me. He was 76 years old. Thanks to him... He explained to us those sad times in which my generation and generation of our colleagues lived when that system was in operation. I would like to ask my fellow senators and colleagues to honor his memory with a moment of silence. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much, my colleagues, and thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u201	Thank you very much, Senator. [[And my friends.]] [[You forget about your friends.]] [[And my friends.]] We are returning to the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senatski print No 434 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. We return to the second agenda: the mortgage credit law and the supervision of mortgage intermediaries and agents. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Senate Act No 433 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1, 2 and 3 should be voted on together. Amendments 1, 2 and 3 seek to extend the deadline for the Commission's consideration of applications for authorisation and registration of mortgage credit intermediaries and registration of credit intermediaries and credit institutions submitted within 6 months of the entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 81 for, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] The amendments have been accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 82 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the mortgage credit law and on the supervision of mortgage intermediaries and agents. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code, the Law on Juvenile Procedure and the Law on Criminal Procedure. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 435 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1. The purpose of the amendment is to refrain from tightening the penalty for unintentionally causing serious injury to health. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 82 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 4]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 seeks to harmonise the terminology of the Penal Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 82 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 6]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code, the Law on Juvenile Procedure and the Law on Criminal Procedure. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 436 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The joint committees at their meeting on 16 March considered the proposals submitted in the course of yesterday's debate on the Law amending the Criminal Code and certain other laws and put forward the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to accept the conclusions set out in paragraphs 1 On behalf of the committee, Mr Marshal, I am submitting a proposal for a joint vote on the amendments tabled to the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws, so that amendments No 6
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u203	Is there any objection to voting on these amendments together? [[There isn't.]] Thank you very much. Does Marshal Grażyna Štark wish to speak as rapporteur and applicant?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u204	Thank you very much. I repeat the request for amendments tabled by me because of the threat to the constitutionality of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u205	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 introduces a new type of crime involving providing funds for the maintenance of persons, groups or associations that finance the execution of terrorist offences. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 58 for, 24 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 7]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 excludes the criminality of the act of interfering with the operation of a computer system or an electronic network where the act of the perpetrator was to protect those systems or networks against a crime or to develop a method of such protection. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We're still waiting for the senator. Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 82 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 excludes the criminality of the action of disrupting the operation of a computer system or an electronic network which is not compatible with an IT system or network manager if the perpetrator does not cause damage and immediately informs the Network Manager of the risks identified. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 58 for, 24 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 4 and 9 aim to remove provisions that extend the powers of the police in the application of operational control. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 25 for, 55 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 10]] The amendments were rejected. Amendments 5 and 11 aim to extend the powers of the Police and the Military Gendarmerie to apply operational control and should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 55 for, 25 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 11]] The amendments have been accepted. As I said earlier, amendments 6, 7 and 8 and 10, 12, 13 and 14 will be voted together. They are editorial and uniform in terminology. Shall I read them separately? [[Voices from the room: No.]] Thank you very much. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 68 for, 4 against, 11 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 15 aims to remove the intertemporal provision which requires certain provisions of the new law to be applied retroactively. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 83 voters, 24 for, 54 against, 5 abstained. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 16. The aim of the amendment is to extend the vacathio legis law to a month. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 25 for, 55 against, 3 abstained. (Vote No 14) The amendment was rejected. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 58 for, 24 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 15]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 426 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u206	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions considered the proposals made during the debate on the Law amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts and requested the adoption of the proposal contained in point II of the Act 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u207	Thank you very much. Do the senators want to speak? I don't see any volunteers. We're going to the voice room. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 1 for, 80 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 16]] I conclude that the claim was rejected. In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 3 should be voted on together. Amendments 1 and 3 aim to maintain the competitive procedure for the selection of candidates for the positions of directors of courts and deputy directors of courts and to ensure that the Presidents of the various courts participate in these positions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 24 for, 55 against, 4 abstained. [[Voting No 17]] The amendments were rejected. Amendment 2 aims to indicate that decisions taken by the President of the Court on matters of judicial costs are fully autonomous. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 59 for, 23 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 18]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 58 for, 24 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the law on amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 444 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 58 for, 24 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the metropolitan union law in the Śląskie voivodship. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 440 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At its meeting of 16 March 2017, the Committee on the Territorial Government and State Administration discussed the proposals submitted during the debate on 15 and 16 March 2017 on the metropolitan union law in the Śląskie Voivodeship and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal contained in point I, i.e. to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u209	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We will all vote in favour of the metropolitan union for the Śląskie voivodship in a moment, but before we do, I would like to inform you that there are 10 minority amendments. These amendments result... the Legislative Bureau has made these proposals, and I would like to draw attention to one last specialized amendment... [[The last two.]] ...maybe the last two. The penultimate one concerns the ending, so that it is the final provision, not the final provisions, because since one of these provisions... There's no "vacatio legis," that is, he's zero, which we agree on. We talked about this at the committee meeting. I am referring mainly to Amendment 10, which is the last one, concerning the deletion of the article. 62. What Art says. 62? It refers to the fact that the Act of 9 October 2015 on metropolitan unions is repealed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister at the committee meeting, as well as here, at the Senate meeting, said that a special law is needed for Silesia, namely lex specialis, because Silesia is specific there are many cities on the rights of the county, 2 million inhabitants. We believe that this is the right thing to do, and we will vote for this law, but we cannot block other municipalities in Poland, and as you know, several metropolitan unions would like to build... Such a bill is ready and can be used, and we, through this present law, want to delete it. It won't hurt one bill or another if we think about our towns, about our metropolises that could arise. You could use additional resources, and that's 5%. as regards personal income tax, and such metropolitan areas could arise. And we wouldn't have to make any more laws... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...for the next metropolitan union. There's already a bill. Amendment 10, which I ask for adoption, concerning the deletion of Article. Sixty-two, he's got it all figured out. We will have this important law, which we all want to adopt, and at the same time we will not block the possibility of creating other metropolitan areas. Thank you. [[Yes, that would be very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u211	Thank you very much. Would the senator, Senator Piotr Zientarski, like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u212	Yes. I fully support Senator Piotr Flork's argument.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u213	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 58 for, 22 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on Collection, Storage and Transplanting Cells, Tissues and Organs. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 430 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At its meeting today, the Commission considered the proposals submitted in the course of today's debate on the Law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on Cells, Tissues and Organs Collection, Storage and Transplanting. The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendments, which is to support the proposal contained in point I. At the same time, the committee informs that Senator Zbigniew Cichoń withdrew his proposals, i.e. the proposals contained in the pact during the committee meeting. II. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u215	Thank you very much. Does Senator Zbigniew Cichoń want to speak again? [[Thank you, no.]] Thank you very much. Let me remind you that Senator Zbigniew Cichoń has withdrawn his application. These are points II (1) and (2) of print No 430 Z. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. [[Voice from the room: Shh!]] Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. Following the withdrawal of the amendments, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments. We proceed to the vote on the committee's proposal, supported by the committee, for the adoption of a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 76 for, 4 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on the Collection, Storage and Transplanting of Cells, Tissues and Organs. We return to the review of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsman's Rights and some other laws. The Health Commission has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act "Senatski Print No. 431 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 is of a sequencing nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 82 for, 0 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 23]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 seeks a correct legislative drafting of the rule. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 voters, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and certain other laws. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 427 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 voters, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act on investments in the construction of the water road connecting Zalev Wiślana with the Gulf of Gdańsk. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 428 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 voters, 77 for, 2 against, 4 abstained. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Investments in the Construction of the Waterway connecting Zalew Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on bailiffs and executions. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print no 371 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Lydia Staroń to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] 82 voters, 40 votes, 36 against, 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill amending the law on bailiffs and executions and has adopted a resolution on bringing this bill to the Sejm. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Lydia Staroń to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the thirty-seventh Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would remind you that the order of the next meeting, scheduled for 29 and 30 March, was sent to you by electronic means. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But please be quiet. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal refused to accept unsubstantiated statements which could not be established or which could not be delivered by the senator in the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Stanisław Gogacz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The statement is addressed to the Minister of National Education. I was approached by the president of the Polish Culture Centre. Timosha Padury in Koziatyń in the vineyard region in Ukraine, asking for the arrival of a teacher from Poland for the school year 2017/2018. Polish Saturday-Sunday School at the Association currently has 165 students of different ages who actively participate in competitions of knowledge about Poland, Polish Olympics, meetings, academics, promoting the tradition and culture of their ancestors. The study of language and culture at the Polish school is conducted by Mrs Natalia Czajkowska, who at the same time serves as the president of the association, the head of the teams of the Podolski Flower and the Podolskie Świderki, the theatre circle, the Polish housewives' circle. In the school year 2017/2018 in addition to already existing directions, lessons from the history and geography of Poland are to be introduced. The school also wants to organize teaching Polish language in the villages Koziatyń and Samhorodek. One person is not able to deal with so many directions of Polish school activity. As it turns out, the presence of a teacher from Poland is essential help for Poles from Koziatynia and Koziatyński district in teaching subjects in Polish language, promoting Polish culture and tradition, especially when it comes to young people. I had the opportunity to meet Poles from Koziatynia in person and I fully confirm that there is a great expectation for a teacher from Poland, and organizing by Poles the Polish school's own efforts and the activity of the Polish association is another argument to help Poles from Koziatynia. Please inform me about a possible decision regarding the arrival of a teacher from Poland to Koziatyn, please inform me about a possible decision on this matter. Stanisław Gogacz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u217	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Christopher Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u218	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The statement is addressed to Małgorzata Sadurska, Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, and to Mr Antoni Macierewicz, Minister of National Defence. I kindly ask for information: what happened to the decree adopted in 1946 by the Council of Ministers on the appointment of the Wielkopolska Uprising Cross; why was it not approved by the National Council; where are the transcripts of the Council of Ministers' deliberations concerning this award; and where are the documents of the Minister of Defence concerning the actions of the Minister of Defence carried out in connection with the above-mentioned decree? In October 1946, the Council of Ministers established the Silesian Cross of Insurgents and the Wielkopolska Cross of Insurgents by decree. The Silesian Insurgent Cross was approved by the National Council and the decree of its establishment was published. All information about the Wielkopolska Uprising Cross has disappeared. The only information about this was published in the weekly Polish Soldier. According to the article, these decorations were dealt with by the Minister of National Defence, who appointed the committees responsible for determining the persons to whom these decorations belong. The 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising is coming up and the clarification of these issues from 1946 concerning the Wielkopolska Uprising Cross is certainly of great importance. I'm making this statement with Senator Robert Gawl. The second senator's statement is addressed to Mr Konstanty Radziwiłł, Minister of Health. Please inform me kindly about the possibility of including in the charity process access to Nusinersen treatment with all SMA patients, regardless of age and degree of disease. SMA, or spinal muscle atrophy, is a rare genetic condition, characterized by progressive motor disability and respiratory failure leading in severe forms of disease to death. To date, only symptomatic treatment of respiratory support through mechanical ventilation and nutritional support, and above all, It's for physical therapy. Due to proper therapeutic conduct, some patients are able to live a relatively independent life. In December 2016, the first drug to stop or reverse the disease process was authorised on the US market. Nusinersen received approval from the regulatory authorities in the USA and was approved for use for all SMA patients in the United States. Recently in many European countries and the world Nusinersen is already in use under the so-called. Early access programmes. They are announced that in 2017 this medicine will be authorised in Poland as part of the charity access to Nusinersen treatment, but this program will only cover children. I also convey, together with this statement, the appeal of the Sejm of the Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship on the matter which I just presented in the statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u219	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u220	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two statements. The first statement is addressed to the Minister of Education. The placement of cameras in schools can have a positive impact on the level of safety of students and employees. However, this solution also entails the obligation to preserve spaces where monitoring is unacceptable. The installation of cameras requires school heads to notify the General Data Protection Officer of the collection of personal data from video surveillance for registration purposes. I therefore ask you to indicate whether this obligation is being fulfilled. And a second statement addressed to Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, Minister of Higher Education. In connection with your arrival in Poland, the patron Rebecca Kiessling, a lawyer and well-known pro-life activist, the president of the organization Well, Rebecca Kiessling was not allowed to give a lecture at several universities in Poland. In this connection, the Prime Minister has issued an appropriate statement, which I support in all its length. However, I would like to ask for detailed information as to whether the structures of your department have examined this issue and whether an explanation process has been undertaken with the university authorities. Which, of course, have autonomy. A situation where there was a very dangerous precedent for limiting free debate in public space and perhaps also pressure from the pro-abortion lobby. In this case, I'm asking for detailed information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-16-senat-37-2.u221	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The seventh sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you very much. [[Meeting adjourned at 15 minutes 31]]
