ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u1	Resume session. I will appoint Mr Kubov and Mr Borowiec to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the European Commission for European Affairs, together with the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u3	Thank you. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws. The project is a print no. 2050. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the 150th anniversary of the birth of President Ignacy Mościcki. This is print No 2018. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The formal request was made by Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 requesting an adjournment. [[Applause]] For the second time in the rule of law and justice, and love... [[Joy in the Chamber]] and lovingly to us the ruling Member Jarosław Kaczyński, the legislative process is being brought out of this House. [[Voice from the room: Jarosław! Jarosław!]] In December, the vote on the budget took place not in the plenary room, but in the column room, which was illegal. Now we have a second case. Instead of a committee meeting... Amendments to the laws on the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council are not discussed, they are not examined at a committee meeting, but where? In the privacy of the President's office. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Since Law and Justice impose such standards on us, we want to use this break to go to the President... [[Then go.]] ...and in the privacy of the cabinet, talk about the comments and amendments that the opposition wants to make. We also hope that the President will listen to our opinion on the changes in the electoral ordination that have been prepared. This order clearly limits democracy in Poland, deletes one-mandate electoral districts in municipalities of less than 20,000. Inhabitants... [[Very good.]] ...and appoint political commissioners, I don't know whether they're electoral or popular, because you're gonna rather be opting for national commissioners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Give me the tenements.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u5	A request for a break has been made, but this justification, Mr President, requires a comment. Ladies and gentlemen, we can speak of amendments if they are the subject of the work of the Sejm Committee. Any other public opinions we may consider not to be formal amendments, but as a form of consultation or exchange of views between the institutions, between representatives of the institutions or Members, so I would ask not to mislead the opinion here. Nevertheless, there is a formal request for interruption and I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of declaring a break, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. There were 166 votes against, 252 abstentions. The motion was rejected. The Commission for Energy and Treasury submitted a report on the government draft power market law contained in print No 2017. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for a second reading of the project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Energy and Treasury Commission on the Government draft power market law will want to raise its hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 252 against - 171, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the agenda items added. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I am pleased to inform you that His Excellency Edgar Ghazaryan, Ambassador of the Republic of Armenia to Poland, together with representatives of the Armenian community, is listening to our discussions. We cordially welcome the Ambassador. [[Applause]] We would like to return to the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemoration of the 650th anniversary of the granting of the great privilege for Armenians in Poland by Kazimierz. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1979. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1979 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The resolution was adopted unanimously. [[Applause]] Congratulations. I inform you that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 650th anniversary of King Kazimierz's great privilege for Armenians in Poland. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. The additional committee report is in print No 1993-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to present this additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u6	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present an additional report on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. The second reading of the project took place on 22 November. The additional committee report is contained in print No 1993-A. 10 amendments were tabled during the second reading. In the course of the work, amendment No 6 was approved by the committee in a more precise way. Article 3 131c of the bill. The Health Committee recommends the adoption of Amendment 6 and the rejection of the remaining amendments and asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law in print 1976. The Commission also recommends a joint vote on Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 8. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u7	Please. I'd like to remind you that this is about print number 1993. The amendments which the committee has tabled in its additional report will be voted first. Amendments 1 to 9 were tabled in Article. 1 draft law amending amendments to the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. In the first amendment to Article. Paragraph 97. The first sentence of the first sentence of the proposal is proposed, inter alia, by the applicant. the extension of the objectives for which the grant referred to in that provision is allocated. Amendments 2, 3 and 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question was raised by Lidia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club. I'm gonna give you one minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was supposed to be 6%. in 2 years, there is a proposal for 6% In 10 years, and without any certainty that it will actually happen. The draft law on the increase in public health funding was actually prepared after the protest of the medical community and after the Civic Platform club showed that it could be increased, and in a shorter period of time, without increasing the health contribution, the amendments that were wrongly blocked because they were talking about quite different things, but that did happen, we want to show you... We would like you to accept these amendments, because then the adoption of this law offers an opportunity to really increase medical environments, especially residents, but also other poorly-earned medical workers, in order to improve the quality of benefits and increase the amount of benefits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u9	The opinion of the legislators is that they are rightly blocked. And that's the commission's recommendation. Then we'll vote. Would the Prime Minister like to speak? No. You're not gonna say anything about this. Would the Minister like to speak? Minister of Health Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment tabled by Members of the Civic Platform to make it quicker and more is an expression of mere hypocrisy. There was time for that. We are determined not only to increase expenditure on health care, but also to increase it responsibly. [[Applause]] [[2 years.]] There really was time for that. [[Voices from the O.R.: 2 years!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u11	Please... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 8, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 198 against 233. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 131c (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The applicants propose a provision setting out the level of financing for health protection in the years 2018 to 202022. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 5. The question is asked by Jerzy Kozłowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Vice Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! This time, the Minister will not accuse me of hypocrisy, because we have nothing to do with what happened earlier when it comes to health protection in Poland. The subject of this amendment is to increase and accelerate the implementation of public health expenditure. We believe that the proposals contained in this project are insufficient because society is ageing. Western Europe is much more ahead of us, and we are even on the tail of Central and Eastern Europe. Therefore, we ask the High House to support our amendment, which aims to ensure that the public health funds are higher, because they are not yet sufficient, and that procedures that will be put into effect more quickly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u13	Please. Minister Radziwiłł would also like to comment on the statements made by Mr Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we would all like health expenditure to reach more than 6%. But more, and as soon as possible. The evidence that the government is making these kinds of decisions is the actions of the last weeks and months. [[Voices from the O.R.: 2 years!]] The expenditure on health care in recent weeks and months goes far beyond the plan that we counted on before the beginning of this year. This means that also in the following years the thresholds, I stress, the minimum set out in the Act will be an indication that no one can go down below in the future. The government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, is certainly determined here, wants to make these expenditures even bigger next year and next years. I therefore ask that this amendment should not be taken into account. [[Game in the hall, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u15	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't shout. I don't think it's right to be reprimanding women in this room. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 196 against 233. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 131c (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The applicants propose a provision setting out the level of financing for health protection in the years 2018 to 2023. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 193 against - 222, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[The voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, something didn't work here...]] Thank you. In the 6th amendment to the article. 131c applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Does it work? [[Voice from the room: Well, it doesn't work.]] What do you mean it doesn't work? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Because there's no vote yet.]] It's working, it's working, ma'am. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 241 against - 194. Is it working or not working? [[Voice from the room: It works, it works.]] The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 131c applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 197, against - 231, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Voice from the room: There was a question submitted.]] [[But what's going on?]] We're moving slowly... Did I read the results of the 7th Amendment vote? The 8th amendment was voted in the block. [[Yes.]] In the 9th amendment of the applicant in the following article. 131e offer among others: the establishment of a system transformation team. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. You are asking Members to ask questions. Mr Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since Amendment No 8 of the Civic Platform has not been supported by you, we propose that Amendment No 9, which is the Kukiz amendment, which is very similar to our Amendment No 8, and above all talks about the appointment by the President of the Council of Ministers of the transition team... We believe that such a team is very much needed because it will be representative, which is most important, and at the same time it will be transparent and will allow us, guaranteeing us the opportunity to develop a strategy, implement it and allocate resources that will be good for the realization of the patient's rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u17	Please. Minister Radziwiłł would like to refer to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The implementation of the law over 10 years means an additional PLN 500 billion for health care. Indeed, this should be accompanied by a public debate on how these measures can be managed. I would like to say that right now, before the law enters into force, there has been a team for several weeks to which numerous representatives of patient organisations, as well as health professionals, are invited. And that's the beginning. [[68th team.]] But this debate will certainly be accompanied by the introduction of this law, because what is also the subject of this regulation, namely the annual regulation of the Minister of Health on what these additional resources are primarily intended to be devoted to, will be the subject of a great debate, because already in the act itself it is signalled that these measures are intended to be directed primarily towards the unloading of queues, to keep up with progress in medical sciences, so that Poles have access to state-of-the-art non-drug and drug technologies, and finally to fully implement what is a provision of the Constitution which obliges us to take special care of certain groups of citizens: children, pregnant women, patients or elderly and disabled people. This will all be the subject of debate and there will be no need for additional bodies or structures to do so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u19	Thank you very much. And before that, Jerzy Kozłowski asked Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Health policy must finally become a priority policy for our government, no matter what. It hasn't been like this so far. It was not because there is a separate policy of the Ministry of Health, which is not necessarily consistent with what the Ministry of Finance wants. That is why we want an interministerial body to be created, which will agree on such actions as are for the benefit of the whole country, of all Poles. Because of the errors in the health system, we bear not only social health costs but also economic costs. It is simply Poland that pays off, which is why we call for this amendment to be supported, so that the interministerial body will finally be formed, which will be controlled by the Sejm so that we have continuity of the health policy in which the patient becomes the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u21	Thank you. The Minister has already explained the matter. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 198 voted against - 236, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 2 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes a different date for the entry into force of the law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the health of Poles, for health protection we offer PiS an agreement over divisions. Our amendments in this regard were not political in any way. We have shown the Minister of Health where and what money can be found to put out a protest in health care to improve systemic care of the patient. Unfortunately, we have heard only one statement that we are using hypocrisy. How unjust it is and how hypocritical it is. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another attempt on the part of the opposition to shorten the time of entry into force of the law, because this will - perhaps, but that is what we are asking - increase the percentage of health expenditure as soon as next year, which is not provided for in the law. Ladies and gentlemen, accept this amendment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] At least one over the party divisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u23	Thank you, Member. It was an appeal, not a question. We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 200 votes against - 238 and 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question, Members shall ask. Member of Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The state in which the Polish health system is is as it is, and there are no innocents in this case. The last eight years, not two years, but 28 years, shows that we can't do anything to change the system and make it the subject of the patient. This law brings with it one small thing, but it brings, that is, an increase in public health expenditure. They are, in our opinion, insufficient, they will be introduced at too slow a pace, but, as I said earlier, better rip than nothing. Therefore, Kukiz15 will support this project despite many reservations about its too little ambition and too slow pace of implementation. I have a question for the Minister: When we reach 6,8% in Poland GDP, as it is in countries where this level is recommended by the OECD? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u25	Thank you. Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Is it true that this year's overwork will be regulated? And what are overconfidences? Overperceptions show that maps of health needs of Poles are ineffective, that your knowledge about health needs of Poles is rather illusory. However, let us look at the overperformances from the perspective of healthcare workers. This only shows that the medical professions are prepared to do more, so shorten the queues. I don't see how you'd like it. And that's why I ask you, can we increase the spending on healthcare at a much faster pace, as predicted by representatives of all medical professions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u27	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, for 20 years you've been waiting, protesting, strike, and demand. You became a minister, and what? In 2017 compared to 2016: the number of deaths increased by 14 thousand, medicines for children after transplants - from 3,20 to 1350 PLN. Under the pressure of a 30-day hunger strike, you prepared a bill on the increase of funds, attention, in 2025. Minister, in 2025 you will be truly behind the shameful veil of oblivion. But I'll surprise you. We will vote in favour - and I say this to patients - only to prepare an amendment in 2019 that will speed up these changes, move the deadline to 2021. [[Applause]] And now I'm talking to you, Minister Radziwill. Anyone who comes to your post as your replacement... We have been putting you on full monitoring since 1 January, full monitoring of every queue in Poland, and this is about queues that were supposed to disappear long ago. [[Quiet.]] You'll be monitored every day. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Watch your back, Minister. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u29	The minister will go into memory, into history as monitored. There were questions. Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł will answer them. Please. [[There will be no queues since January 1st. It's gonna be great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I find it a really great honor that this bill is the one that I can present to the High House. [[Yet.]] Because this law amending the law on public-funded healthcare provision can be described as a health project+. This 500 billion PLN in 10 years... [[Ten years.]] ...are measures comparable or even exceeding, funds from other great government projects by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. [[14,000. Deaths.]] An additional 500 billion PLN in 10 years is the opportunity to achieve first of all what Poles who are ill expect of us, the possibility of accessing what is most modern, the possibility of reducing queues. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, these lines will really be reduced significantly by the end of this year. [[They were supposed to be decommissioned by October.]] Because right now huge funds, hundreds of millions of zlotys, over 1 billion zlotys, are going to unload them. And those who expect nothing to happen will be very surprised at the end of this year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The president is laughing at you.]] Finally, we will be able to accomplish what has so far been just an empty record in the Constitution. [[Voice from the room: Blaszczak laughs.]] Some groups of citizens deserve special health care from the state, special assistance. It will be possible with this money. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, health care is, of course, primarily for patients, but it is also a place of work for several hundred thousand people who work hard and are often very badly rewarded. This bill is a chance for these people to finally make a decent living. [[Ten years from now.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The health care system needs to be repaired, negligence is enormous, many years old. For this complicated mechanism to move, apart from this repair, it simply needs fuel and this fuel is the money that we will decide today. So far, our predecessors have talked a lot about this. Today, too, they say more needs to be done faster. And we're just doing it. We're doing a specific thing, and that's what we need to see. [[In 2025.]] You can understand the emotions that accompany the debate on the health system. However, it is difficult to accept the really hypocritical statements of those who have been responsible for and responsible for health care, [[Applause]] which have so far seen the way to repair health care through withdrawal of the state, through commercialisation and privatisation. [[14,000. Deaths.]] It is precisely the implementation of such a concept of the theoretical state that is one of the main reasons for the chaos that we are dealing with in the health service. And now we're cleaning it up. [[Two years!]] Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, I have no doubt that today's decision of the Sejm has a historical character for Poles. [[It's more like futuristic.]] All doubters, but I can see that there are fewer and fewer of them in this room, and I urge you to join us in a good change. To vote in favour today is an opportunity to be among those who will be able to say: A well-functioning healthcare system in Poland is also my work. I'm really trying to get you to do this. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Speak out of your way, Minister.]] [[Okay, okay, okay, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u31	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1993, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 436, 1 Member voted against, 1 abstention. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm's law on amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare has passed. We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the government draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws. The additional committee report is in print No 1991-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Kubov to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Energy and Treasury at its meeting on 22 November considered the amendments tabled during the second reading of the bill amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws. The Commission recommends that all amendments be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u33	Thank you. We will vote first on these amendments. I would like to inform you that the applicants have withdrawn amendments 1 to 10, 14 to 17 and 19. Amendments 11 to 13. applicants propose, inter alia, that entities pursuing the national indicative objective in annual reports to the President of the Energy Regulatory Office should also provide the country of origin of agricultural raw materials or biomass referred to in those provisions. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 11 to 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 432, 2 Members voted against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 18, the applicant by adding Article. 12a propose the definition in 2018 of the minimum share of biocomponents referred to in that provision. Amendment 20 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 18th and 20th, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 298 against - 136, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1991, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 286, against 148, with three abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Social Cooperatives Act and some other laws. The additional report is in print No 1884-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Robert Warwas to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Social Cooperatives Act and some other laws, print No. 1779. The Commission at its meeting yesterday considered four amendments to Draft Print Act 1884 and recommended that the High House reject Amendments 1 and 2, adoption of Amendment 3, which was the same as Amendment 4 withdrawn, and recommended that the draft Law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u35	Please. The amendments tabled will be voted first. In the first amendment to Article. 15b of the Social Cooperatives Act, the applicants propose to add a new paragraph. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Agnieszka Progaj, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna start by saying that this bill is really good, and thank you for the way you're doing this bill. Maybe some of you don't even know what you're going to vote on. This bill is about social cooperatives. These are small social economy entities that were created a few years ago to give jobs to people who have the most difficulty in the labour market. These are entities that operate according to economic activity. The state has written many things here that will help them to function - among others. creating consortia so that these small players can compete on the market. Dear Member States, this amendment is about the possibility of non-governmental organisations, absolutely non-profits, which conduct workshops on occupational therapy, occupational activities, KISs, to join these consortia in addition to cooperatives. They're similar entities, they don't make money, they don't threaten the economy in any way. It's just a simple mistake, Minister, really. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it because Kukiz is the one who is filing this amendment that she will be rejected? Consider that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u37	The Minister wants to speak? Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Deputy Minister for Social Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I also wanted to thank you for the substantive discussion in the Committee on Family, Labour and Social Policy on amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and some other laws. As you said, the first two amendments were negative and the other two were positive. Ms Chacja made comments on the first amendment. It was an amendment prepared by the Kukiz club15. She has aroused great interest among the members of the committee, but since one of the articles of the Act is to enter into force on 1 January 2018, it requires further analysis. I would like to say that we will certainly be discussing and examining the amendment tabled by the honourable Member, preparing a law on the amendment of the law on professional and social rehabilitation, which has already been addressed to the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers and will soon be in the Sejm. I hope that, when discussing a law that applies to such entities as occupational therapy workshops, occupational activities, it will also be possible to present this committee to the family, work and social policy and discuss it again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u39	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 201 voted against 235, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 46 The Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 1b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question again is asked by Agnieszka Progaj, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, this amendment is once again an amendment to the same law and is ordering a matter which, in my opinion, has simply been overlooked. In the same law, so that grants for the creation of social cooperatives can also be received by people who become self-aware, come out of foster families, there is an additional obligation for them to register in employment offices, and they are already registered in social assistance systems, they already have their difficulties. In order to make it interesting, in the same act it is exempt from this obligation, e.g. persons who are subject to registration at social inclusion centres. So why not standardize, not go in the direction of unburdening these people, exemption from the obligation to go to another office, people who really have to come after these offices, how is that possible? Please support this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u41	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 202 voted against - 234, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 5a setting a time limit within which social cooperatives will adapt their statutes to the amendments provided for in the draft law. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 426 voted against - 7, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1884, along with the amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 437 against - 1 Member, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Social Cooperatives Act and some other laws. We return to the review of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Social Insurance Act and some other laws. This is print No 2004-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Barbara Bartus to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Social Security Act and some other laws. 7 amendments were tabled during the second reading in the Sejm. The Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No. 2004 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. There was a meeting yesterday. The Commission has examined these amendments and recommended amendments from 1 to 6 to accept, amendment 7. - to reject it. In addition, the committee recommends that amendments 1 to 4 and 6 be voted together. And, of course, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u43	Thank you. We will vote on the amendments first. In the 1st amendment to the draft law, the applicant proposes a new wording of the article. 6 introducing amendments to the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act. Amendments 2 to 4 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission, as we have heard, is asking for their adoption. Their adoption will render the minority proposal irrelevant and Amendment 7. Questions are raised by Members. Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment, ladies and gentlemen, you are introducing the pension chimneys. Well, it's $350,000. The insured will have to pay more than 5 billion more to the Social Security Office at the expense of reducing the revenues to local governments and the National Health Fund. As a result, local governments will not be able to organise care for older people in the future, because they will have less money and the health fund will not have money to treat them. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, this amendment, will lead to the division of pensioners into those who will have Bajoran pensions, and there will be a handful of them, and those who will have starvation pensions, and those will be millions. You're condemning them to starving pensions and breaking the health and welfare system. Minister Radziwiłł, it is this law, this amendment will reduce the influence to the NFZ. Protect money for Polish health care, Polish senior pensioners. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u45	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law clearly shows that you don't respect the working people, you don't respect the people who are your employers, because it's because of their income tax contributions that the Social Security Office is holding your positions. Mrs Barbara Bartus, as draftsman of the committee, forgot to say one thing that everyone, but literally everyone is against this bill. The representatives of the ZUS do not support it because they say that they will not be able to adapt the IT system so that it can be realized. Trade union representatives don't support it because they say it's just promoting another form of employment and point to pension chimneys that will grow. Employers say that you are introducing this in a completely unprecedented way, and the costs are not included in the budgets of next year's companies, that they will run out of money for investment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't support people at work, you tell people...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u47	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u48	...go home, don't work, don't work harder. [[Applause]] [[Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u49	Thank you, Member. Member Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u50	Minister, the question is: will this bill, which is late justice after years, make the state fairer or less fairer? And the precise question: Who is this law really about? To the outrageous question: Why aren't you outraged by the giant pay gap, and are you outraged by retirement in the future? This bill is fair. And I'd like to ask you how it really is, because 7 billion for 350,000... And one technical remark that's important to us. This does not apply to Members. A Member who doesn't have any extras doesn't get in because he's a loser. That'll cover $350,000. Poles actually make a lot of money, making a lot of money. But this is a law on measures that will support social programs. The state will be fairer. I'd ask the minister to refer to it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u51	In fact, it is obvious, sir. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You can actually... If you agree, we will proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting amendments 1 to 4 and 6 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 240 voted against - 166, 33 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 19b concerning implementing rules. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cymanski, I have lost my voice by explaining the obvious to you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is an impact assessment of regulation, an impact assessment of government regulation. [[Don't throw the cards.]] Why is there no cost for future pensions here? Because you don't want to show that the Social Security Office, which is already bankrupt today, will be completely unable to pay those pensions in the future. From this impact assessment of regulation... I explained it to the Minister, too, and I lost my voice. [[You're welcome in writing.]] This impact assessment shows that in 2060 this law will have no positive revenue at all, the costs of reducing tax revenue alone will practically eat any profit. And you didn't calculate the losses in the Social Security Office, which are going to be due to the fact that at the worst demographic moment in our country, we're going to have to cover these huge pensions from taxpayers' money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the name of which you owe citizens today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u53	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. There were 246 votes against - 159, 33 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The minority's motion is pointless. 7. The amendment is without object, because we have already voted the essence of things. There are questions to the whole thing. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Take the rich, add to the poor. A beautiful rule, it would seem, a long time ago, because the October revolution passed a few years ago. But you take from the rich, in your opinion, more than PLN 5 billion. How much do you give poor pensioners? How much? Zero! [[Six!]] [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero!]] So that's not true. You have not consulted this law in the Council of Social Dialogue, there is no joint government and self-government committee. The government has calculated how much you will take, because a limited contribution to the Social Security Office causes increased PIT taxes. The government has calculated exactly how much you're gonna take from them. You can't count it, for you can't add or subtract, I won't mention multiplication or division. [[Applause]] Therefore, this law cannot be supported and neither the dark people buy it, nor trade unions nor employers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or even the Supervisory Board of the Social Insurance Institution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u55	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[But she doesn't have a voice anymore!]] [[She lost her voice!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With the rest of your strength. This law is not just a promotion of a change of form of employment. Indeed, the Poles will show you Kozakiewicz's gesture and move on to contracts within the framework of self-employment. It's not only that you don't get a bigger ZUS, you don't get a tax yet, because they're gonna pay a minimum, just like entrepreneurs pay. [[I wish you'd bothered before.]] But this bill is also a promotion of employment of specialists outside the country, because specialists who will have ever worse working conditions in Poland will prefer to go abroad... [[But where, on Madeira?]] ...and not only pay lower taxes... I know that Mr.Cymanski is about to say that there are equally high taxes in Germany, Sweden, but I will tell you something else: there are specialists who do not earn as much as in Poland, only four times more, and you know it well, because I showed you during the debate that a cleaning lady in Sweden earns more than a specialist and professional in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u57	Thank you. [[Mr Tadeusz Cymanski enters the pulpit]] But wait, wait, sir! [[Joy in the Chamber]] I have here written by Mr Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15. [[Excuse me. There you go.]] I'll let you speak, too, just one at a time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u58	I'd love to step down. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice raises taxes once again. 5 billion are to be added to the FUS. Well, what is it if we don't raise taxes? Ladies and gentlemen! The result of this bill will be that young people, highly specialised, who make big money because they learn, who should earn big money, will continue to make big money, but in the Czech Republic, in Germany, and we will see fig with poppy from their taxes. That's the result. Here's another thing. You want to pick up the rich, like Mrs. Kochan said here. Okay, but yesterday there was a project to raise pensions, a pension allowance. In the dumpster right away. That's what you're doing. And one last thing. This threshold, a limit of thirty times, was introduced by your minister, the dead. Gilowska's life. There was some sense in doing this, there was some sense in doing it. You walk away from this, you make no sense. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u59	I'd just like to ask for some questions. I can expect a question from Mr. Tadeusz Cymanski. Here you go, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u60	This time very calmly and extremely substantively. What kind of disaster are we talking about? What a blow this bill will give to an outstanding professional who earns 20,000. gross zloty? Well, he's actually gonna have to walk away 2,000. from his earnings to the ZUS. He'll get $3,000. added as the cost of the company to his account. If any of you think that such a professional, patriot, Pole, because I believe in them more than you do, will run away and go away, then you have a very bad opinion of these people. Really, they hold God's hand. [[You're doing demagogy.]] This really is a solution that will allow this government to carry out a lot. [[Voice from the room: Take more.]] And the apartments for the young? It's true that we're making a bill for the future. It's true, we don't know how it's going to be, but today is Poland, today we have to help, today we have to stop them so they don't leave, today we have to do it, now, today. Tomorrow's today. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u61	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please... With this holding hands, let's be careful, sir. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This question is also addressed to Mr Cymanski. He was talking about an equal distribution for those who need it more, for those with lower pension benefits, that this goal... [[Demographics.]] ...she shines on this bill. Then why don't you agree? Isn't the NSZZ trade union solidarity on the part of those with the lowest pension benefits? [[Applause]] Why is the five representative organisations, including the Solidarity Forum, the Trade Union Forum and employers' organisations, jointly protesting against this law? [[I'm afraid so.]] Why are they raising unconstitutionality? There is a statement on the page "Solidarity', ladies and gentlemen, in which such a statement is made: for the NSZZ "Solidarity', this project is not only appalling because of the procedure, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which, in our view, is unconstitutional. How are you gonna deal with that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u63	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2004, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 226 voted against 209 and 4 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Social Security Act and some other laws. [[Applause]] We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Corporate Income Tax Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2005. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 2005 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 415, against - 3 and abstained 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Guarantees and Guarantees given by the State Treasury and some legal persons and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. This is the 2006 print. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: Why is the PiS policy on small and medium-sized enterprises so inconsistent? On the one hand, you are introducing this law, which we are going to vote on at the moment, which is a good law, because it actually supports small and medium-sized enterprises, and on the other hand you are introducing banking tax, commercial tax, restricting trade on Sunday. You've just passed a bill that's bad for entrepreneurs when it comes to pensions. Why do you treat entrepreneurs like donkeys: once a stick, once a carrot? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u65	In my opinion, it is that is too general a question, Mr Skiba, to answer that. He's supposed to respond to this project we're voting on. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2006 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 423 against - 1, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Guarantees and Guarantees granted by the State Treasury and certain legal persons and certain other laws. We return to the review of item 7 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government bill amending the Act on National Tax Administration and the Law introducing the Act on National Tax Administration. We proceed to the third reading. It's the 2007 print. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law consolidates IT services in the area of the finance minister. When Minister Banas had previously reformed the National Tax Administration, he promised that no one would lose their job. There are 2,600 people left without a job, a small town. Minister, when are you lying and when are you telling the truth? Are you lying or telling the truth today, as you assure me, that no IT guy is going to lose his job? [[Applause]] [[Voices from the O.R.: He's lying. He's lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u67	But is that a logical question? [[Very.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Minister Marian Banaś will answer this question because it is actually unknown. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Well, I would like to say that what hurts the most about the opposition Members is that we have been very successful, that the reform of the tax administration has succeeded, [[Touchdown, applause]] We're going to make 230 billion extra money this year. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What are you doing?]] The issue of the use of workers is also this element, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] That's what this success brings. As far as IT is concerned, unlike what happened at the National Tax Administration... [[Are they gonna lose their jobs or not?]] ... will all be automatically on the basis of the Labour Code employees of the IT center of the Ministry. So once again, I'm confirming that none of the IT guys are gonna lose their jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u69	A clear, clear, clear answer, we can proceed to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft act as a whole in print no. 2007 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 272 voted against - 157, 7 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on National Tax Administration and the Law introducing the Act on National Tax Administration. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government draft law amending laws to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud. We proceed to the third reading. The report shall be published in print No 2022-A. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting yesterday considered two amendments to the Modern Club. After hearing the government's position and after the discussion, the committee rejected both amendments. In accordance with print report 2022, I recommend that the High House reject these two amendments and adopt this draft law, which was submitted in print No 1880, in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u71	Thank you. We will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 1 of point 1. b. This amendment is linked to the 2nd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission, I remind you, requests that they be rejected. The question is raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I understand chasing criminals with a tax carousel, but reaching into citizens' pockets is already too far gone. What are you gonna do? This law allows the head of KAS to block business accounts for up to 3 months inclusive. This law also blocks the payment of full wages from such bills to citizens during these 3 months. What does that mean? This means that if the head of the KAS decides to block the account for a period of 3 months, for 3 months, someone who makes 6,000 in this company will only get a minimum wage. Which means he may not have the money for three months to pay his mortgage. And that in turn means that after these 3 months he will have huge problems, because the bank will give him a loan agreement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what you want to do. That's not what we're authorized to do. If someone in this room has some oil in his head, he should support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u73	Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Mr. Marshal, may I respond?]] Minister Wiesław Janczyk, Deputy Minister of Finance, wants to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The concerns addressed to the High House in this respect are oversized, oversized. Namely, the legislator provided for this possibility and the head of the National Tax Administration has the power to take into account, after carrying out the analysis, the claim for payment of wages in the event of the application of the blocking of the account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u75	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 192 voted against - 222, with 18 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club. [[Does he still have a voice?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u76	I'm short. Mr. Marshal! Dear Members and Dear Members, All the Members of the Committee on Public Finance recognised one thing: workers' salaries are a sacred thing. The payment of these salaries should not be subject to the decision of any minister, any official or head of the KAS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u77	Thank you, ma'am. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Law 2022 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 367 against - 47, with 23. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the draft law on the Supreme Court presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. Questions are asked by Members. Member Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is about ruining the Supreme Court. You want your men there. I ask you to answer the question: How many new judges do you want to create? What amendments have you agreed with the president on this project? What is present in it, and what is not present in it? Who will run for this new Supreme Court? What staff you have, you have already shown in the companies of the State Treasury: Miesiewicze, Mrs Sadurska and many others whom you are calling to important positions. Will they be the same kind of people as before? And you will wash your hands of the judgments given by these men, but the responsibility for these judgments given by those wretched men called to the Supreme Court will fall upon you. You'll be like the Pirates washing your hands, but you'll be responsible for those miserable sentences. Why do you want to ruin the Supreme Court? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u79	Of course, I would like to remind you that if questions arise, please contact the applicant's representative. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You're kidding Poles by saying that the Supreme Court's demolition is a wonderful recipe for improving the judiciary. Is this demolition gonna speed things up in court? No. Will this demolishing of the Supreme Court result in a reduction in court fees? No. Is this wreckage... [[But that's not the case at all.]] ...will finally improve access to free legal care for Poles? No. Often, ladies and gentlemen, you say that you want to eliminate pathologies from the Polish judiciary, only that you introduce pathologies into the second power with these assumptions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u81	Mr Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister of the President's Office argued that the radicalism of the reform of the Supreme Court in the President's project is not an end in itself, and it follows from the belief that the judge's environment needs to be made more sensitive to the needs of citizens. How can one be made sensitive, especially by presenting such a grossly unconstitutional project? We must remember that when we have no free, independent courts, we have no freedom. We cannot count on honesty and impartiality in dealing with cases with which people come to court. This project has no substantive justification. There is no opinion that an emergency complaint or prior retirement of judges is justified. It's a draft against the constitution. What, then, is the substantive justification for these changes? Because it can't just be staff changes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u83	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no. 2003 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. There were 173 votes against and 256 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the motion, and I would like to remind you that it referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on the National Council of Courts and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Very often in this House, we hear about the various institutions giving back to the sovereign, including the National Courts Council. You say, it was in the explanatory memorandum that these changes were very often used to give the National Judicial Council to the sovereign. You want to give the State Election Commission back to the sovereign, because it's also very common, but, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the PiS, why do you not want to give it back to the sovereign when it comes to the debate about the electoral commissioners, the electoral commissioners and the district arrangements? Say it, we're very interested. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We're the sovereign.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u85	Mr President, we are talking about the National Judicial Council. A little bit different. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask: Do you know how much the majority necessary to change the constitution is? What is the majority necessary to change the state? Apparently, the current government camp has a problem with that. Each law student knows that this law on the National Court Register should be submitted as a draft amendment to the Constitution and voted by a qualified majority of 2/3 of the votes. We as an opposition would have blocked this proposal to change the constitution destroying the independent judiciary then. Because that's the law, the right to block changes in the constitution. It's the law that the citizens gave us. It's the law that gave us the sovereign. The ordinary vote on this law undermines the outcome of the elections and limits the rights of all those citizens who did not vote for the PiS in 2015 and that was the majority of citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u87	Let me remind you that we are voting on a motion for rejection, i.e. in the ordinary majority procedure. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Yes, but this is a change of constitution.]] Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask about the consequences, because no one politicizes the courts in Europe, in a civilized world like you do. Have you informed citizens - farmers, entrepreneurs, local governments - that you will lose EU money because of what you are doing, because already in EU documents there is a link between the rule of law and the independence of the courts just to spend EU money? Have you informed the Poles? You have informed the President that he will be responsible - because after reconstruction you want to give him responsibility for foreign policy - that he will turn out to be like Zabłocki on soap, on his total surrender, because the President will be responsible for the loss of EU money? In order to spare the President the grief of seeing leftist Europe, the President will ride to the top and take responsibility for it. And I'm... [[The bears are at the zoo.]] ...they are grateful for the fact that, as a MEP, I fought for the reduction of roaming charges, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the phone calls between the President...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u89	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u90	...and Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u91	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u92	...will cost you a lot of money. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[You reported Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u93	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question should be addressed to the representative of the President, but in fact I would like to address it to President Jarosław Kaczyński. Do you remember, Mr President, the round table session, the sub-group for judicial reform and the law in which you participated? Do you remember the request made by the solidarity party you represented for the establishment of the National Judicial Council, the members of which will be appointed by the General Assembly of the Supreme Court Judges, the Supreme Administrative Court and the District Courts? Did you participate in the arrangement of such a construction with delegated judges not by parliament, but by the judiciary... [[In what mode is that a question?]] ...to the National Judicial Council? And why do you allow that agreement in the Constitution to destroy today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u95	The answer to this question is quite different, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 2002, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 172 votes against - 265, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on the National Judicial Council and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no other country in Europe where Members elect judges. There is no such state in Europe. The only country in the world where Members point to judges is North Korea. The Law on the Supreme Court is a copy of the Cyrankiewicz Act of 1962, while the Act on the National Court Register destroys the programme of "Solidarity" to the end. This is the 'Solidarity' programme for the justice system of October 1980. Three postulates, Mr. President. Independent D.A.'s office destroyed by you. Presidents of the courts independent of the Minister of Justice, destroyed by you. The last of the points is the influence of the judges on the cast. It is the postulate of the Solidarity, that is, the source of free Poland. Mr Budka, is it true, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the PiS eliminates the last of the demands...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u97	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u98	...systemic NSZZ!Solidarity? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u99	Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS is talking about a great compromise on the courts, but we are really dealing with a great deal of conspiracy to take over by the PiS and the President of the independent courts. The PiS plans to illegally remove 40% of the Supreme Court. And what's interesting is that this House will be completely re-established, which is in charge of determining and approving the validity of elections. And the new judges to this chamber will be selected by the spelling nominators in the new politically-politicized KRS. I would like to know, best of all, first of all, from you, Mr President: Will the Supreme Court, after this staff cleaning, as effectively approve the results of the elections as at this point in time the Constitutional Tribunal approves the non-constitutional laws?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u101	Madame, however, ask the relevant addressees a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u102	Will there also be judges in the Supreme Court who will describe themselves as government representatives? What guarantees will people have that the next election, if their outcome is negative for the PiS, will suddenly not be annulled? These guarantees after the adoption of these two laws [[♪ The bell ♪]] No, it won't. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u103	Thank you, Member. But I would ask you to ask questions to specific recipients. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we had a very long debate in this Chamber about both the Supreme Court project and the projects concerning the National Judicial Council. Many times representatives of the PiS and representatives of the President's Chancellery changed the objection against the opposition that we did not participate in any discussion about changes in the judiciary, that we had no ideas. High Izbo! This project, which today for the second time the majority of the Sejm wants to reject, is, firstly, proof that the opposition wants to talk and has constructive, good ideas, and secondly, this is also proof that the judicial community also has a good will to participate in the conversation about change. I also have a question for the Member of the applicant, Boris Budka: What good changes are there in this project? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u105	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u106	And I have a question for all of you from the opposition: And what kind of deal do you have with the judges that you want them to choose instead of... [[But it's outrageous!]] They should be chosen by the sovereign because that's the constitution. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u107	Thank you. Marcin Horała, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We hear a lot about the unconstitutionality of laws here, so I wanted to ask if I read the constitution correctly, word for word, art. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4: The Act sets out the limit of the age upon which the judges retire, paragraph. 5: In the event of a change in the system of courts, judges may be moved to rest. Art. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4: The system, scope and mode of operation of the National Judicial Board and the way in which its members are elected shall be governed by the law. You guys really read the constitution before you start talking about it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Where's the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u109	Thank you. Mr Boris Budka is an applicant. There were two questions for him. There you go. [[Take the constitution, Boris.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these questions, which really show what we are dealing with today. We are dealing with a collision of two visions of justice. Party justice, one in which the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, will dismiss, appoint, dismiss presidents, vice-presidents of the court, in which the party, the only right party, will decide who will be the judge at the National Court Council. And a vision of the democratic justice system, based on the principles of the threefold division of power, a judiciary independent of politicians. Since the draft law of the Members of the opposition, which has been brought into this House for the second time, guarantees, first of all, the fulfilment of this third request for solidarity. The first two requests were thrown in the trash by the majority of the PiS votes. It was in this Seym that the request for solidarity and independence of the prosecutor's office was brought to history. Now the prosecution is headed by a party officer, the chairman or the chairman of a party group. He is a Member of the Polish Parliament, who has the right to account for every prosecutor in Poland at the same time. [[Quiet!]] You threw the first postulate of Solidarity into the basket. The second postulate, in which the Presidents of the courts were so subjected in times of martial law... [[Oh, my gosh!]] ...and earlier in the period of the Polish People's Republic, executive... It's a request for these presidents not to be elected by executives. This too you have destroyed, also with the voices of your fellow Members you have trampled on the second of the demands of Solidarity. And in a moment you will trample on the third postulate, the postulate of Solidarity, which was to guarantee that the courts would be far from political influence. Meanwhile, in the proposal you want to reject, we have made exactly these solutions. I regret that at the moment there is no representative of the President of the Republic, Minister, because it was the President of the Republic who got the first of these solutions. Members of the Civic, Modern and PSL Platform sent this draft law by Iustitia first to the President of the Republic so that he could benefit from good solutions. Instead, Mr. President broke his word to the citizens. There was no public consultation, there was no civil consultation, and what has been happening since July on the National Judicial Council will be included in the history manuals as an example of the worst way of knowing, as an example of the worst conspiracy and really trading state institutions. The draft which the opposition Members have presented and which you are about to reject at first reading is in line with the Constitutional Court's judgment. It guarantees democratic election of members, judges in the National Court Register by all judges in Poland, but above all meets constitutional standards. The Polish constitution clearly indicates that Parliament has six representatives - four elected by this House and two elected by the Senate in the National Council of Courts. In addition, there is a politician - Minister of Justice in the National Judicial Council. In addition, this 8th political element of the National Judicial Council is the Minister of Justice, which you have also made a prosecutor general. That's where the KRS policy ends. This is the element of the sovereignty of the sovereign, which art speaks of. Four constitutions. The remaining 17 are judges - the first President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and 15 judges, judges who must be independent of the National Court of Justice to be an entity that is also independent of politicians. It is the draft law which you want to reject at the moment, and I ask on behalf of the Members of the applicants to refer him to further work in committees, that guarantees the preservation of constitutional standards, but above all that the National Council of the Court remains independent of politicians, regardless of who is in charge. However, the alternative proposal put forward in this House, which can be very much resented by the President of the Republic, is the proposal that each of the 15 judges in the National Court Register should bear a party label, so that each of the 15 judges elected in this Parliament may say that they have been designated by a majority, opposition or minority. But this is the worst thing you can do to Polish judges. You want to put party patches on them once and for all. This judge, after leaving the National Judicial Council, will judge in the District Court, District Court, Appeal Court, Supreme Court or Supreme Administrative Court. And what if the website comes to him and asks, "You are the judge chosen by the PiS majority or the opposition minority?" So you actually have a party patch. I don't want to be judged by a judge who's chosen by any party majority. [[Judge Tuley's voice.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, you have a chance, you have one final test. Will you stand where you stood in 1980, or will you stand where your Member, a representative of the club's state, was in 1980? Unfortunately, you were on the other side then. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you are on the same side as the Polish People's Republic's Government - then - which you were supposed to fight. Ladies and gentlemen! The worst thing you can do for Poland is to get it out of the European Union. The adoption of bad, non-constitutional, anti-European standards that you are pushing at the moment will result in Poland slowly being pushed into Putin's arms. Once before, from this speaker, Rafał Grupiński said that there, in the Kremlin, there could be champagne corks shooting at the moment. I have the impression that after what is happening in this House in every area of life that you are taking on, there is one big fiesta in the Kremlin. And that will not be forgotten by the Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: You're bored.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u111	The Deputy Minister of Justice Michał Wójcik asks for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u112	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Sir, you just spilled a lot of venom here... [[But what do you say? What are you saying?]] ...but today you can ask where you've been in recent years, and Mr. Trzaskowski too. Where have you been? Where were you when people were hurt? It's a reprivatization scandal. What did you do? [[Yes, sir.]] What did you do then? [[Applause]] Where were you when thousands of people were robbed at Amber Gold? [[SKOK-i.]] Where have you been? What did you do as Minister of Justice? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Where were you when the Poles were robbed of VAT? 250 billion PLN. [[Five billion.]] [[In SKOKs?]] 250 billion PLN. Where have you been? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: In the Rabbit Rushing.]] [[Voice from the hall: In Owl.]] You raised the question of reprivatization. Who canceled the case concerning Jolanta Brzeska in the D.A.'s office? It was in your day, in your day. [[Touchdown, applause]] We're the ones who took this case, you might say, the person who is the symbol of this wild reprivatization... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Don't lift a finger.]] ...which is a symbol of your power! [[Applause]] [[Relax, sir.]] [[Don't sweat it, come down.]] Why should the National Judicial Council - because we touch on this subject - be reformed? Because a few weeks ago, she showed us an excellent argument, which she was capable of. She kept 250 people, over 250 people who were supposed to go to justice. [[Because the minister was incompetent.]] And you took their side. We're on the side of the nation, you're on the side of corporations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Yes, sir!]] And I want to tell you, as well as this part of the room, that when you were in charge, Mr. Chairman, just in your day, there was a judge on the phone. [[Crying?]] [[A voice from the courtroom: Judge Crysze?]] You know that very well. This happened in your day, not in ours, not when there's a good change. That's why we're going to reform the justice system. [[Applause]] And the most important of the pillars, the Supreme Court... [[I want everyone on the phone now.]] ...and common courts, and the National Judicial Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u113	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voices from the room: No!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no. 1697 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 255 voted against - 173, 5 abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the citizens' bill on the restriction of trade on Sundays. The additional committee report shall be in print 1958-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Janusz Sniadek to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear representatives of the Civic Committee of the legislative initiative with Mr Alfred Bujara at the head! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour and deep personal satisfaction to present to the High House an additional report, No 1958-A, on the citizens' bill on reducing trade on Sundays. The Commission asks the High House to reject the proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety. In the event of a second reading, 39 amendments, the committee requests that 20 of them be rejected and adopted 19. Let me repeat that with deep personal satisfaction I would like to state that, like other countries of the old Europe, the restriction of trade on Sundays also in Poland will soon become a fact. I would also like to stress that, at last, the long-standing demand for Solidarity, which here in this House is constantly being brought up by the people who have... [[But, sir, you are the rapporteur.]] "Solidarity in the mouth of people who have recently destroyed this "Solidarity" to an unprecedented extent. Today's use of solidarity by them is an insult to this sacred name for many. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[It's a scandal, it's just a scandal.]] [[And Peterovich?]] I would also like to stress that reaching the target state [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Proposald by the applicants will be achieved in the manner suggested in the position of the government, i.e. step by step. The first stage, from 1 March to 31 December 2018, will consist of only two commercial Sundays, two Sundays in which shops will be freely opened each month. In the next stage, from 1 January 2019 to 31 December, it will be only one Sunday, the last. [[Then they'll all be free.]] After 1 January 2020, we will reach our target, i.e. two commercial Sundays before Christmas, one commercial Sunday before Easter and additionally scheduled four Sundays: last Sunday of January, last Sunday of April, last Sunday of June and last Sunday of August. This target will soon be reached, after two transition stages, in 2020. I therefore ask the High House to adopt a law on the restriction of trade on Sunday, a multi-annual demand for solidarity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u115	Thank you, sir. As we have heard, the committee requests that the 1958 print project be adopted. The minority proposals, as well as the amendments, will be voted first. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission, as we have heard, calls for this proposal to be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the whole project is a legislative bubble. There is no distinction between galleries and shops operating in it. The exclusion of a ban on trade at stations does not apply to a situation where the station itself is caught in the definition of a commercial establishment. The regulations are in breach of European rules. Shops with a general ban are about 10% all shops, while 90% of the stores will be excluded, will benefit from the definition of poorly formulated, poorly defined, inconsistent, out of focus. The Civic Platform has submitted a proposal to reject a project that has long ceased to be a civil project and has also submitted a draft amendment to the Labour Code Act. It's the right way. Not for a trade ban on Sunday, so for changes in the [[♪ The bell ♪]] Work codes. Vote for our motion. It's a better way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u117	Thank you, Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, PiS MEPs say it's time to give their families Sundays to spend time together, but you forget to say that most of the trade workers are still not free on Sundays, you forget to say that 70% In fact, the employees of the shopping gallery are people who do not have families. I'm surprised the president didn't give the green light to turn off the Internet on Sunday, because if families are supposed to spend time together, then you should do everything you can to keep young people from spending that time in front of the computer. [[You do it. You take care of it.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the Anti-Polish Act and the Anti-Economic Act. You are cooking problems for small and medium-sized Polish entrepreneurs, because they will lose the most on Sundays, and it will be the hardest for them to work off what they lose without trading on the 7th day of the week. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u119	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u120	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I happen to be at the mall on Sunday. I've been with my wife very often, and I've been with my son very often... [[Don't explain yourself.]] ...and I see families who come there to spend time together. There are various reasons why a shopping gallery is visited on Sunday: it is not only shopping but also pleasure, family, spending time together. Why, therefore, does this ideological law impose on Poles the way they spend their free time, including on a Sunday off? Wouldn't it be enough, Mr reporter, to change the Labour Code - to ban forced work on Sundays and to offer a much higher rate to those who want to work voluntarily: 250% or 300% A day's pay? Why should such a law, if this issue can be resolved in a simpler way: to protect workers from compulsory work on Sundays [[♪ The bell ♪]] A work code? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u121	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 155 voted against - 257, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the title of the draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Platform Club, sorry, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u122	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Let's call things by name. That is why we propose that this law should adopt the most appropriate title, i.e. the law on reducing economic growth. Why? If today the growth of gross domestic product is driven primarily by consumption, and we cut out one of the seven days of consumption, then we have to call things by name: the government cuts the branch on which it sits. [[Enjoy it.]] If this law has been blocking investment in trade for a year now, let's call it by name. That's what I'm talking about. This law blocks investments in Poland. Finally, if this law restricts the possibility of trading Polish small and medium-sized enterprises located in border areas located in shopping galleries, and will eventually lead to destruction [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even small neighborhood shops, let's call it things by name. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u123	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 148 votes against - 268 and 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 1 paragraph 1 The applicants propose to delete the words "Sundays' and "Sundays'. Amendments 4, 8, 10, 22, 29, 31 to 33 and 35 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission, I remind you, requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 5, 7, 23 to 26 and minority proposals from 1 to 3. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Porwich, the Kukiz Club15. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u124	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to remind you that 0.5 million Poles signed under this civil project. [[Applause]] [[It's not under there, it's under...]] In general, under the "Solidarity" project, and I am a man of "Solidarity" and I wanted to emphasize it very strongly. [[It was a different project.]] Secondly, of course, the Platform and Modern will vote against the Trade Reduction Act on Sundays, which is why I am asking Members of the Law and Justice. You guys go all the way on a lot of things. It wasn't 100+, it wasn't 300+, it was 500+. And we in this amendment propose to introduce free Sundays immediately, without undue delay. Why would you do that in stages? What's the point of doing this in stages? There's no substantive justification. These solutions will benefit Polish capital, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for Polish entrepreneurs. [[Yeah, pretty much.]] Why do we have to do this on installments? We can buy a TV on installments, right? You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u125	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u126	Please support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u127	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sunday is a day when not only Poles shop, but also due to better prices come to us Belarusians, Lithuanians, Germans, Russians and Ukrainians. For various reasons, Sunday is the day on which they can buy all the necessary products, because on other days they work and simply cannot come to Poland. I am a Member of the Podlaskie voivodship, thanks to Belarusians who come to Bialystok every weekend to shop, shops in shopping malls are maintained and have a pretty good trade turnover. Minister, tell me what losses these entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who have their shops in shopping malls, are going to suffer. As you know, shopping malls charge these merchants rents in euros and they certainly won't reduce their rent because one of the Sundays will fall out of their trade. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u129	Thank you. Mr Anna Krupka, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The reality of an employee in your day is a trash can and a hard work or an exit after bread. Is this your veto on a slow Sunday a dumb sticking to the old course? Is this the business program where the employee is supposed to be a slave? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u131	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 166 votes against - 237, 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 3 (1) applicants propose to exclude online shops and online platforms from the definition of commercial premises. [[Game in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. Amendment 18 is linked to this amendment. Over them, i.e. amendments 3 and 18, we will vote together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is strange that the promises of solidarity, in terms of trade on Sundays, are so eager to meet some, and the demands of solidarity about democracy and the division of power somehow passed through on this side of the room. But a specific question about the proposed bill. As we know, on Sundays, especially on weekends, he makes a lot of young people, people who study and whose families can't afford to keep them. They also earn people who, for example, during the week. they must take care of the elderly and the disabled. Already last year, for your wonderful governments, the number of people, especially young people who left Poland, has increased dramatically. Tell me how you predict how many more young, well-educated people will have to leave our country as a result of this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u133	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 18 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 409, 15 against, 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 3 (7) applicants shall propose a definition of commercial work and trade activities on Sundays and holidays in commercial establishments. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The questions are asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Changing that definition isn't working. In the provisions of this law, you follow the pattern of other countries. So let me remind you: in Hungary, a year later, trade ban was withdrawn on Sundays, in Germany it has been in force since before the entry into the European Union, which is important in the context of the principle of capital movements, in France, Spain, Greece, it was left to the decision of the local government, i.e. the inhabitants. Maybe it'd be a better idea or a couple of times more wages. Leave freedom to the Poles. Don't decide how to live for them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u135	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The authors of the Act, listing the reasons and objectives for the adoption of the Act, forgot to mention the important group, the students who are an important part of the people working on Sundays, but are not covered by trade union statistics. They often work for contract-ordering, combining weekend work with study during the working week. This approach allows many young Poles to become independent, as well as to ease the domestic budget damaged by the rise in prices funded by the PiS. So what does the government have for thousands of young Poles who lose their ability to earn their income on Sundays and who want to work on Sundays want their savings rather than their whole life being on their parents' pot? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u137	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. It voted 257 against - 25, with 141 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 3 applicants propose the definition of liquid fuel stations in the following point 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. There were 263 votes against, 143 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the article. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 260 voted against - 34, 131 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 5. Amendments 13, 24 and 27 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 11 and 28. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 9, 13, 24 and 27 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 149 votes against - 261 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the article. 5 applicants propose to add point 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 37 against - 228, with 171 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render the amendments 14 to 17 and 19 to 21. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This project, of course, is bad, it is entering the sphere of human freedom, and you want to decide what Poles are going to do. You want to set up small and medium Polish companies. But it also clearly shows that this is a trade union project. Ladies and gentlemen, if the trade union project goes to the proceedings of the High House, there are either some privileges for the union bourgeoisie, or this trade union project discriminates against someone. And so it is in this case. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask you what is worse for shopkeepers who trade cigarettes and similar articles, because according to this project these workers will have to work on Sundays on the same terms as before. What are they worse at than employees who work in shopping malls and don't have to work on Sundays at all? Would you mind explaining that to me? This is public, ladies and gentlemen, discrimination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u139	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that students of Primary School No. 3 in Syców near Wroclaw are listening at the moment. Welcome. [[Applause]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 27 votes against - 383, 20 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) The applicant shall propose that the prohibition in Article 1 (5) be prohibited. 5 was about the gift trade. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment, like the entire bill, is, of course, forced by the Church. I wonder if the priests will be collecting for the tray and working on Sundays. Why wouldn't a trade ban be extended here? Please take my proposal into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u141	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 255 voted against - 146, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 13 of point 13 shall propose that trade in the entities referred to in that provision be possible to the extent related to the direct handling of travellers. Amendment 16 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very interesting recipe. According to this provision, the applicant, the PiS club, wants trade to be possible in the entities referred to in that provision only to the extent related to direct travel services. I wanted to ask you how you're going to investigate whether trade is related to direct travel services. There are such rumors that the state will decide in such a way that e.g. in Warsaw at the Central Station, where there are two floors, you will be able to trade downstairs and at the top - not. The question is, is that rational? Or will it look like he's gonna stand by a political officer and check? You're going to Warsaw, okay, you can buy it, and unfortunately you're here for groceries, so you're leaving home. I'm asking you to explain, because this is a very curiosity recipe. How will you check which sales are related to maintenance? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Travellers who don't? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u143	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 15 and 16 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 265, against - 45, with 131 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 17th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 15 of the proposal proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 269, against - 10, with 153 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) The applicant shall propose that the prohibition in Article 1 (22) be prohibited. 5 did not apply to commercial establishments trading exclusively agricultural machinery and spare parts for such machinery. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 268 against - 156, with 15 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 applicants propose to add point 26 and 29. Amendment 21 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 20 and 21 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 414, 1 against, 16 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 23rd amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Adopting it will make amendments 25th and 26th and minority proposals from 1st to 3rd unobtrusive. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 393 against - 29, with 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 25 and 26 and 1 of the minority proposal are irrelevant. In Amendment 28 to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 applicants propose an editorial and legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Let me remind you, this is about the 28th Amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 273 votes against - 158 and 6 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 30th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 11. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 262, against - 129, with 37 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 34th amendment to the article. Point 14 (2) of the applicant proposes to delete the reference point. a and delete point (a). b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 265, against 153, with 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 36th amendment to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 15c of the Act on State Labour Inspection, the applicants propose a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 277, against - 155, six Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 37th amendment, the applicants propose to add Article to the draft law. 15a and Article 15a 15b. Amendment 39 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 37 and 39 will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Against.]] Not against it. All in favor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 237 voted against - 176, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 38th amendment, applicants propose to add a new article to the bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask why applicants do not want to agree that this whole process of entry into force of this law should not be monitored, and after, say, the year of operation of this law to see what this solution has really affected the Polish economy, the labour market. It may turn out that this impact will be so negative that we will act in accordance with the Law and Justice Directives, i.e. Hungarian standards, and we will withdraw from this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Who has tabled this amendment?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u145	This amendment was submitted by the PSL club. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 174 voted against - 253, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. There are questions about the whole thing. Mr Adam Abramowicz, Polish... Law and Justice. [[Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: You think about us all the time, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! August 1980, 21st postulate for Solidarity: introduce all free Saturdays. Well, in the system rightly passed, I will remind you, on Sundays Poles did not work, also trade workers. Now the situation is, 38 years after August and 28 years after the transformation, that more than a million Poles are forced to work on Sundays. The United Right Camp realizes the legacy of the Solidarity and introduces Poland into the European standards such as they are in Germany, France or Austria. [[Applause]] I have a question for President Bujara. Does this law support small and medium-sized Polish companies and fight against Western corporations that do not trade on Sundays in their countries, and what about this law employees who signed up for this project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u147	Thank you. Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[How about a break?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important and good law, because it shows how our country - located in the centre of Europe, a 38 million-dollar member of the European Union - has one man: a monk from Torun Tadeusz Rydzyk. Let us not be deluded, this bill was not even a sign of concern for the welfare of the workers for a moment. This is a bill written on order and written under dictation. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Don't talk.]] If the applicants in the explanatory memorandum of the law have written that the doctrine of the Catholic Church is fundamental to establishing Sunday as a trade-free day, then we are witnessing a very important event: the secularity of the state goes down to history. And it all happens under the supervision of Tadeusz Rydzyk and does not take place for free. [[Touchdown, applause]] Mr Kaczyński can view the cat Atlas because he knows that you pay millions for this job to Rydzyk. [[Applause]] [[Go and heal yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u149	However, I would like to draw attention to this, Members, in order to weigh the words more... [[Voice from the room: Configure.]] [[Please, really, censorship is not in force in Poland yet.]] ...because sometimes you can get out of range. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Especially since, ladies and gentlemen, the gallery is attended by young people from secondary schools from the counties of Niedan and Tarnobrzeg. Welcome. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u150	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Politics is the art of a responsible compromise and such a compromise has been proposed by the Modern. This is a compromise to ensure that workers are guaranteed two free Sundays a month without a trade ban. According to the Kantar TNS survey, which you like so much, 76% Poles support this solution. I believe that this is a sufficiently binding outcome, so that in the care and responsibility of the economy that you have based on the most fragile pillar of consumption, its mechanism does not cover with such a sand of the trade ban on Sundays. This is not just about worldview issues, it is also about the responsibility you bear, dear state, for those entrepreneurs who lose, for consumers who are not allowed to shape free attitudes, and for all those who have signed the petition: not for a trade ban on Sundays. This compromise can be reached, just abandon the worldview shackles and take responsible action. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u151	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This half-time introduction of free Sundays is not a good solution. Perhaps we should extend the vacathio legis, but introduce immediately four Sundays free, give time for trade to adapt to this, because unfortunately there is also an option to withdraw in such a half solution. And this is an extremely important demand, especially the people who work hard in trade. I realize that the Modern Platform, which represents a narrow group of large-town liberals who mostly use the gallery, does not understand people... [[Please, sir, really, this is embarrassing.]] ...who work in commerce, but unfortunately they must also be claimed from this speaker. And it's a good thing it's a solution, but it should... [[But what is the full solution?]] ...to be modified as soon as possible... [[What about the firefighters, the cops who work?]] ...and go towards every Sunday free trade in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u153	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u154	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will not be referring to the words of the representatives of the Modern, showing their level and unreadness, because I would have to use the words on which the ethics committee and the marshal would have to punish me. [[Courage.]] However, I would like to say briefly: even if this law is not perfect, it is very good. Many thanks to the Legislative Initiative Committee. This bill will give a lot of Poles their breath. And here's what I'm going to say: it's a very good bill, after its adoption, which is about to happen, I'm sure I'll be very pleased. like many Poles. Because of its stagedness I can't call it, I won't be able to call it full happiness, but thank you very, very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u155	Yeah, well, in part, we're lucky enough to vote on the whole bill. [[Mr. Marshal, there was a question for the representative.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1958, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 254 against - 156, with 23 abstentions. [[Some Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice stand up, long-term applause]] I state that the Sejm passed a law on restricting trade on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice chant: "Solidarity! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. -Solidarity! -Solidarity! -Solidarity!]] We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the memory of General Józef Dowbor-Musnicki on the 150th anniversary of his birthday and the 80th anniversary of his death. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1980. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1980 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 417, against - 3 and abstained 3. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on honoring the memory of General Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki on the 150th anniversary of his birthday and the 80th anniversary of his death. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on condemning ideology and the consequences of the Bolshevik revolution. The additional committee report is in print No 1994-A. I ask Elizabeth Zielińska to present this additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media was sitting yesterday. It recommends rejecting the amendment and supporting the resolution on condemning ideology and the consequences of the Bolshevik revolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u157	Thank you. We will vote on the amendment first. In this amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the draft resolution. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the adoption of a resolution as proposed by the applicants and in the non- objectivity of the committee's proposal. Members ask questions. Member of Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! Content of the amendment of the Civic Platform Club: A century ago, the Bolshevik criminal revolution, which broke out in Russia in November 1917, changed the face of this country and later a large part of the world, and its tragic social and economic consequences are felt in many countries and Russia itself until today. Born of the criminal ideology of communism, fueled by anti-humanitarian and anti-Christian slogans, she has made her cruel mark on the lives of many generations. Poland became one of the biggest victims of the Bolshevik Revolution. Although in 1920 thanks to the bravery of the Polish Soldier, the expansion of the revolution to Europe was blocked, but when in 1939 Communists allied with national socialists, aggression and its tragic consequences, it was no longer possible to stop. Since 1945, in the absence of will and consequences of the Western powers allied in the anti-German coalition, it has been possible to import the communist revolution into many countries in Europe and beyond. To millions of victims of the Russian Bolshevik Revolution [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hundreds of millions of victims around the world have arrived, and the scary effects of communist economic experiments have ruined the economies of dozens of countries around the world. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland condemns ideology...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u159	Thank you, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u160	...which led to the tragedy of many millions of people...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u162	...and pay tribute to all the victims of the Bolshevik revolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are dates in history that require obvious condemnation. This date is 7 November 1917. No washing - this date should be clearly remembered, but not cultivated. You want to cultivate it by this kind of commemoration. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that as a result of the Bolshevik revolt more than 100 million people were killed in direct fights, and the result will be that as a result of the adoption by various types of leftist ideologies of this ideology people will continue to die - whether as a result of abortion, euthanasia on request or for example. killing for organs, e.g. China. [[What are you talking about, man?]] Mr Sonik, it was from your environment during the debate on this resolution that there were supporters of Bolshevism in Russia. I don't know if it's as a damnation or as a desire to just [[♪ The bell ♪]] support.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u165	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u166	Sir, I'd like to remind you that the supporter is Żyrinowski...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u167	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u168	...who said that if it weren't for the miracle of the Vistula...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u169	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u170	...the Bolshevik Revolution would not only reach Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u171	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u172	... Berlin, but also over the Atlantic.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u173	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u174	Is that what you want? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The resolution prepared by the Kukiz Group15 and supported by the PiS is a resolution that divides society, which hits left-wing environments in Poland. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is embarrassing. On the other hand, the amendment and resolution prepared by the Civic Platform and Mr Sonik are excellent. I'm asking you to back this up. [[Applause]] [[Another Bolshevism advocate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u176	We'll proceed to the vote... [[Corrigendum.]] I can't let that be corrected. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Because I don't... [[Voice from the room: Name was mentioned.]] ...he quoted Mr Sonik. Anyway, he was in irregular mode because he asked you a question. So I'm sorry. [[Mr. Terlecki, you made Sonika a Bolshevik and a lefty, you know that?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment and, therefore, in favour of adopting a resolution as proposed by the applicants, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 157 voted against - 260, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u177	Mr. Marshal! The accusation of Bogusław Sonik, the creator of the SKS in Krakow, that he has a sympathy for Bolshevism, is simply a rudeness, Mr. [[Applause]] [[It's stupid.]] And now for the resolution. Well, there is simply nonsense in this resolution. The statement that leftist revolts always lead to terror and crime is simply a lie. [[It's true.]] 1905 - The leftist revolution began with a bloody Sunday in St. Petersburg. Then there were hundreds of victims in Warsaw, in Łódź, etc. What was the effect? Restoring Polish language in schools... [[Lefty.]] ...the restoration of Polish language in municipalities, [[Applause]] the possibility of publishing newspapers, creating associations. The left is not just a terrible card in the history of Europe. You can't... [[Voice from the room: Learn history.]] ...that kind of nonsense to write. You have to have some respect for a tradition that we disagree with, not in a thoughtless way according to Kukiz's idea to condemn levity. [[Shame on the Sejm.]] Did you see that line? We all condemn the Bolsheviks, we all sacrifice our lives, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To fight them off. But such foolishness is written in resolutions? [[Voice from the room: Time!]] We're not voting on this. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u178	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a very necessary resolution. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] which unfortunately could not exist in the European Parliament, because unfortunately communism has not been settled, because unfortunately today in Western Europe communist... [[Way to go, PiS.]] ...terror is still hay, still anarchists are burning Hamburg, still this red plague in Europe is still freaking out. [[Applause]] And now... And this is the left hand condemned in this resolution, and it is to be condemned. Don't be Bolshevik allies, terrorists, anarchists. [[A revolutionary fraction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u180	Thank you. Member Michał Kaminski, the European Union, came forward... [[...red scarves...]] Mr Nitras, do not shout. Mr Kaminski has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am a strong supporter of this to condemn the Bolshevik ideology and the October revolution, while I have a question, because here is the wording... Red or purple is also the color of the cardinals, gentlemen, and I would advise you to pay attention to this, [[Applause]] Red cardinals, too. [[Voice from the room: Szalik take off.]] However, I would like to ask whether the doctrine that President Jarosław Kaczyński formulated in the early 1990s still applies, that what separates him from the Catholic right is the attitude towards the French revolution. Is the attitude towards the French Revolution of Law and Justice now positive or negative? [[Applause]] That's a question. [[But what is it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u182	Right. Mr Piotr Babinetz, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u183	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. Isn't it so that during the work of the Committee on Culture and Media on this project, in addition to the provisions proposed by the Kukiz club15, the amendments of the club Law and Justice and part of the project of the Civic Platform club were accepted, which means that the project was still final? And as for Mr Platform, who spoke earlier about the 1905 revolution, first of all, it was a left-wing, socialist revolution, not a left-wing revolution, [[Applause]] And secondly, I have the impression that the 1905 revolution preceded the Bolshevik revolution... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...was about a dozen years earlier, and we are talking about condemning the ideology and consequences of the Bolshevik revolution in this resolution, so this argument was completely hopeless. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Yes, sir.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, Mr. Marshal, this is a resolution that condemns the effects of Bolshevism and is to commemorate all the victims of Bolshevism, so also these Polish victims, among others. victims of anti-Polish Soviet operations... [[Not like this.]] ... NKVD from 1937 to 1938. [[Applause]] And by the way, let us remember those who have always fought Bolshevism, among others. Rafale Gan-Ganovich. Two days ago, it was the 15th anniversary of his death. It was a man who fought Bolshevism in every form of it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As the soldiers sang, cursed. Let's remember these people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u184	Thank you very much. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution... [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] No, you weren't speaking right now. [[I've been called. Mr. Marshal, I'll just say three sentences.]] I'm very sorry, sir, but you haven't spoken or been quoted. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1994 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 287 Members voted. 283 voted against, no one voted against, 4 abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on condemning ideology and the consequences of the Bolshevik revolution. [[Applause]] [[Can I correct it now?]] We would like to refer to item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2021-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u185	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, print No 2008. At its 52nd meeting on 22 November 2017, the Sejm re-directed the draft Print Act No 2021 to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Commission for the purpose of considering the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission examined the amendments at its meeting on 23 November 2017. Three amendments were submitted to the committee. The Commission recommends rejecting them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u186	Thank you very much. We will vote on the proposal first. I would remind you that the committee requests that the motion to reject the draft law be rejected in its entirety. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question will be asked by Krzysztof Truskolaska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS bill shows the authoritarian struggles of the ruling group. It gives the Marshal of the Sejm the freedom of interpretation through the provisions contained therein, which are not strictly defined. Thanks to this, the PiS-owska majority will have the opportunity to impose financial penalties on us, representatives of opposition parties, effectively gagging us, restricting freedom of expression and freedom of speech. The Marshal of the Sejm has repeatedly demonstrated that they are equal and equal between us in this House. Most of the people being punished in this term of office are representatives of the opposition. After this amendment, the Marshals of the Sejm will be able to order the imposition of a financial penalty under any pretext if someone comments or looks in the wrong way as if they wished. And now the question. Does reading the Cat Atlas at the Sejm violate the dignity of this House? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u188	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I hope you can withstand the pressure because you're gonna be a lot of things, because you're gonna decide and punish. You will decide when a Member has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. After all, you have punished Mr Michael Szczerba for the words of the Marshal, beloved, and you have not punished Mr Jarosław Kaczyński for the treasonous murders and canals. [[Applause]] You did not punish Mr Pyzik for a vulgar gesture made with a middle finger. You didn't punish the Mirror Messenger for voting for two hands. Even today, you do not have the courage to call Mr Kaczyński to order, who reads the cat Atlas. [[Applause]] Maybe if he read the constitution, you wouldn't be ruining our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u190	Incidentally, ladies and gentlemen, these are just the kind of speeches that only confirm my conviction that it is necessary to change the rules. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Marshal!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 173 voted against - 230, 22 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The applicant shall propose to delete third points laying down the principle of reducing the payment of allowances to Members and Senators in breach of their conduct in the Chamber of Members of the Sejm, the Senate or the National Assembly. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question will be asked by Krzysztof Truskolaska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law grants and extends the powers of the Marshal of the Sejm, giving him full scope for reprimand and de facto gags, restricting the freedom of expression of the opposition. How can you demand justice from a marshal, whose deputy, Richard Terlecki, recently insulted me, but not as Krzysztof Truskolaskie, he insulted me as a Member of the Polish Parliament, and insulted all the opposition voters in this Seym? [[Because you offended all the Poles from the Seym Hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Are these words worthy of the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm? I quote: You idiot, get out of here, no more quote. [[Voice from the room: Great words.]] This man also challenged [[♪ The bell ♪]] another member of the opposition from a clown. Mr. Marshal, is this deserving behavior at the Sejm meeting? [[Applause]] [[Don't insult the Poles anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u192	Mr Bartłomiej Arłukowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Bartosh.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This session of the Sejm is a symbol of the end of your two-year reign. At this session of the Sejm, you take over, politicalize the courts. During this meeting, the Sejm is changing the electoral order and you are in fact stubborning the elections. During this meeting, you are de facto amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, creating the Sejm mute. It is full of symbolism of how you open the door and put the red carpet for Jarosław Kaczyński to take over Poland. Change of courts, change of ordination and the Sejm mute. Nevertheless, Mr. Marshal, if you wish to call the Seym once every three weeks, I want to tell you, we are not afraid of you. [[We're not afraid of you either.]] We will fight you because you are destroying Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u194	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 173, against - 240, with 23. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 The Law amending the applicant proposes a 2-year deadline for the entry into force of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Witold Zembaczyński, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u195	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We're filing this amendment to give you time to think. You've built fences around the Sejm, maybe put a glass trap here, a glass curtain behind which you can silence the opposition, but really not this way. I mean, you've been doing this all night. It's a scandal for us to discuss things like this at times like this. You change, practically as you wish, this sitting, one of them allowed, one of them not allowed, one of them being punished. You have full authority. You've got this chick. Marshal, what are you afraid of? But President Kaczyński is behind you. [[He's sitting. He's gonna be in jail.]] We do not need to gag Members, we do not need to limit their vote, because Parliament is a forum in which we are to express our thoughts, to which we have full legitimacy as representatives of the sovereign, Mr Marshal. So I think this amendment is very right. Give yourselves some time to think, there's nothing to worry about, we're really not as much a threat to you as you think, even though we're gonna win with you in the next election. Yes, that's why it's enough to make this amendment and it'll be better. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u196	Thank you, sir. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, Mr. Marshal, it is worth some time to think, ladies and gentlemen, because this is the famous project of the democratic law and justice package. I wanted to ask your marshal if gagging the mouth of the opposition is a development of a democratic package. [[Applause]] We're not just speaking for ourselves here, we're speaking for the voters. I know this often bothers you, but, Marshal, should an opposition Member be punished financially for presenting a different opinion than the only right sentence of Jarosław Kaczyński? For that, Mr. President, should we be punished? Like Mr Nitras, who wants to make a formal application and has a penalty of 15 000. Evil? Is this a normal country? Did we fight for this democracy or did our grandparents fight for it? [[Yes.]] This is shame and disgrace, ladies and gentlemen. Members in our country are to be punished for taking the floor from the Parliamentary Speaker. Disgraceful! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u198	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 169 voted against - 242, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Members ask the whole question. Member of Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Doesn't the Sejm's seriousness violate the fact that we've been proceding this bill at hours. 2 a.m.? Is this serious, Marshal? Doesn't the Sejm's seriousness violate the fact that we've dealt with this bill for two and a half days? Is this normal, or is this serious, marshal? [[Very good.]] No, it's not serious. However, the example of the behaviour of Mr Piotr Pyzik, Mr PiS, who showed Mr Cimoszewicz a gesture of the middle finger during the discussion on support for the fishing sector in July 2016. How was he punished? Just a reminder. And other Members who did not do such things, Members of the opposition were punished, were punished with financial penalties. [[Applause]] [[Can I remind you of some things?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u200	Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After this vote, after this change of law, it will no longer be a parliament of the democratic rule of law. This will not be the Parliament of the European model. It will be a facade parliament for Russian prayer. You consistently and quickly push us out of Europe and push us into Russia's hands. Moscow has given us the silent Seym once. And you want to give us another mute Sejm. We don't agree to be the silent Seym. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u202	Thank you. Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One short question: What punishment would you have imposed on the Member who is sitting behind the President who yelled at me two weeks ago, get the fuck out of here when I came to say that their Member behaves inappropriately? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u204	Thank you. Marcin Horała, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the opposition, especially the Platform and the Modern, defend here so freedom of speech and freedom of parliamentarians. Let us sum up their achievements in this area in this term of office: throwing paper, climbing into a chair, pressing committee management table to the wall and eating pate in the hallway on Christmas Eve. Congratulations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: You can eat in the Chamber, like Mrs Pavłowicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u206	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2008 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 238 against - 185, with 16 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. [[Prime Minister Gowin is eating now. Prime Minister Gowin is eating something now, I think.]] We return to item 17 of the agenda... Mr Rutkowski, I urge you not to shout. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the Budget Act for 2018. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law contained in the report in print No 2044. At the same time, the Commission is presenting a minority proposal on which we will vote first. In this application, applicants shall propose to delete Article. 35 including amendments to the Hunting Law Act. Questions are asked by Members. Member Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment on which we will vote will allow for the entry into force of the law on compensation for hunting damages already adopted in June 2016. Unsupported by this amendment will mean betrayal of farmers and further bankruptcy of farms due to massive hunting damage. I have a question for the government. Why does the government want to lie to farmers for the second time, that it cares about their farms and at the same time quietly in the around budget bill, I repeat once again, and for the second time postpones the entry into force of this very important law? I would like to say to you that the failure to support this law will contribute to farmers' strikes in December. Farmers are tired of promising, waiting for this bill to be passed. And speaking of yesterday, I think the JOWs should stay. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u208	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Oh, bravo!]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Come on, Zbyszek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u209	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's unlucky, it's very serious. Prime Minister Morawiecki replied to me in 2017 in this Chamber that the amendment to the Hunting Law Act in Chapter 9: Hunting damages will be implemented in 2018. The Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Beata Szydło confirmed this. I therefore ask, Prime Minister, how are your words to write the amendment that we are about to vote on. Where is the seriousness of your office? I'm not talking about the lynching anymore, I don't know what to call it, the agriculture ministers responsible for this agreement and environmental ministers. Minister Jurgel, where is the importance of the Minister, Mr Morawiecki's Deputy Prime Minister in this regard? Go to the fields and see, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What the wild boars are doing with the corn that's left in the field today. You can't do that. You've blown away your success. We've been working until hours. Two in the morning and what? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u210	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 62 voted against - 334, with 13 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Members ask the whole question. Member of Izabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the bill, which we will be voting on in a moment, PiS decided that next year a Polish pensioner, a pensioner, each taxpayer will pay for lunch by a Member of the Republic. The bill goes unnoticed because the debate was in the morning. And a few hours earlier, PiS destroyed free courts and a three-department of democracy in Poland, a three-department of power in Poland. It is known, however, that democracy is more important than money. However, I would like the Minister of Finance from PiS to go out and tell the Poles how much they have to pay for the catering service in the Sejm next year just because the PiS Members do not like their food so far. [[Voice from the room: Aaaa...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u212	Madam, this is a question. Not about that. [[Voice from the room: About.]] [[Yes, Mr. Marshal, she's so big...]] No, no. I'm so sorry, ma'am. Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two months ago, we adopted a law on the National Institute of Freedom, where the plan was adopted for the next 10 years. Each year there was saved PLN 3.5 million. It turns out that after two months you are already changing this plan, because next year there will be 35 million practically. The plan, which was supposed to be 10 years out of 30 million, will prove to be a plan of 400 million. How do you want us to trust you when you're changing something that you're deciding for the future? How are we supposed to trust how citizens are supposed to look at you when you can change your mind at any time? At this point, you've also fooled us by saying that these costs are going to be 30 million, and they're going to be 400. Why isn't the social security fund frozen as well? There are benefits at the level of 2012. We'll have 2018 in a moment, and you're still living in the past. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u214	Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Any increase in healthcare costs, which Polish patients benefit from. is desirable as much as possible, even if this increase in expenditure is small. However, in the next year's budget, it is futile to look for items that will significantly improve the situation of residents, nurses, located, laboratory diagnostics or, finally, non-medical workers without whom this system would not function properly. I repeat the question to Minister Radziwiłł, whether he provides for the payment of all over-executions this year. Once again, I stress that overperformance is not the whim of all medical professionals, but it is the willingness of all healthcare workers to do more, so shorten the queues. At the same time, at the end of the financial year, everyone, doctors, nurses, stands in a wedge, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Triple clinch. Will the director agree to overexecute? Will the NFZ do, pay for over-executions? Will there be bonuses and allowances for health care professionals? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u216	Thank you, sir. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft bill... But the minister wants to, I'm sorry. Minister Teresa Czerwińska, Deputy Minister of Finance, answers questions. [[Voice from the hall: But not Czerwińska, Deputy Minister of Health.]] Oh, no, that's another thing. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2044 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 256 against 173, with three abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on special arrangements for implementing the 2018 budget law. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Waste Act. The additional report shall be in print No 2025-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission proposes that amendments 2, 3, 7 and 9 be rejected and that the other amendments be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u218	Thank you, sir. We will vote on the amendments first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose a new title of the Act. Amendments 6, 8, 10 and 13 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 6, 8, 10 and 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 268 against - 128, with 23 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose to add point 10a. Amendment 3 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is of a technical nature. It refers to the maximum amount of pollutants disposed of in the atmosphere as a result of the treatment of waste refrigeration equipment. We want the amount of these contaminations to be as small as possible. We also know that waste treatment stations where hazardous greenhouse gas compounds are contained do not yet have the appropriate technologies, although they are not very expensive. We give them time to adapt to this criterion. This time, I will not finish with a question, but with an appeal, although substantive, because I am not used to foaming from this speaker, as many Members do. The point is that the majority of the Parliament should accept this amendment, may even accept it as their own. We don't fight for authorship. You have already accepted good amendments for citizens, even if they relate to police cameras, so don't be embarrassed, we won't cry after they come into force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u220	Mr President, please do not violate the rules of procedure. We're in question mode. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 53 against - 222, with 150 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 110. Point 2 (1) (a) g The applicants propose to delete the words referred to in Annex 3 to the Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 395, against - 6, with 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 238 applicants propose to delete paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 398, against - 1 with 24 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 7, among others. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 37 Act on waste electrical and electronic equipment propose to add paragraph. 2a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is such a blessing for ordinary citizens. It is often the case that the supplier of electrical or electronic equipment supplied via the courier does not fulfil his obligation to pick up the used equipment, or finds that he will do so at a later date. In practice, this equipment is not received and is thrown anywhere, or is simply carried to junkyards that do not have the right equipment. The adoption of this amendment is simply a better enforcement of the existing rules. Mr. Marshal! As usual, the recommendation ends with a question, although the explanation for your Members is more important here. Does the High Sejm care about ordinary citizens while upholding the law on the collection of used equipment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u222	Thank you. We don't have any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 59 voted against - 223, with 143 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 3a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u223	We have already discussed this amendment in the Environment Committee. The paradox is that no one raised any objections about its substance. I am aware that, in the privacy of ministerial offices, she will probably be considered, also in committee, but I would like to speed up this process, because it is very important. This amendment concerns the rules relating to the process of reducing emissions to the atmosphere... [[Game in the O.R.]] Gentlemen... Members, if you are not interested in the environment, you may leave and there will be less damage to this environment. [[Applause]] I'm not bothering you. I would very much ask you to accept this amendment because it will actually reduce pollution. [[It's a waste of hearing to listen to that gibberish.]] Member, Prime Minister, a little class. [[But you're appealing to yourself, aren't you?]] Ladies and gentlemen, according to your Marshal's rule, I'm finishing my speech. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A question. [[But stop it, don't murder people with your ignorance.]] Do you care about air cleanliness in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u224	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 47 votes against 226 and 154 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose to add two new articles. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 381 against - 15, with 26. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose after Article. 9 add a new article. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 405, against - no one, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2025, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 422 against - no one, five Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Waste Act. We would like to return to the discussion of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. At third reading, we will refer to the additional report of the committee, i.e. printing No 2024-A. I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the Law on security of mass events, 1988 and 1988-A prints. A second reading was held yesterday in plenary, amendments were tabled. The committee also met yesterday. At the committee meeting, the amendments were considered, with a proposal, by the committee's recommendation to reject all amendments and adopt the law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u226	Thank you. We will first consider minority proposals and amendments. I would like to inform you that Amendments 3, 4 and 7 and the minority proposal No 2 have been withdrawn. All amendments and minority proposals have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism. In the first amendment to Article. 12 applicants shall propose that, first, the paragraph be deleted. 2 providing that the municipality council may fix a maximum number of authorisations for the sale of alcoholic beverages, secondly, in paragraph 2. 4 change the hours of night selling of alcoholic beverages that may be restricted. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 53 votes against - 248 and 117 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 applicants propose that the municipal council consult the executive body of the municipality before adopting the resolutions referred to in that provision. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This proposal proposes that opinions on the resolutions of the municipality council governing the number of authorisations and the location of the places of sale and administration of alcoholic beverages should be expressed by the executive bodies of the auxiliary bodies. The project leaves the question of who is to speak on behalf of the council or the settlement open. Do applicants realise that the statutes of the Council generally do not determine what the opinion of the municipal council is to look like? Do you really - it's for applicants - wish that, for example. the complex matter of determining the number of licences for the sale of alcoholic beverages in the commune has been distributed by rural meetings in each of the villages or settlements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u228	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 168 votes against 253 and 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second amendment, applicants propose to leave the text in force. Article 2a 14 laying down rules for the consumption of alcohol in public places. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 55 votes against - 246, with 121 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose that in Article. 18 do not add lips. 3b laying down authorisation rules when the number of applications is higher than the maximum number of authorisations. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in an unobjectability of the 6th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 48 against - 242, with 130 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3b applicants propose, inter alia, that the Municipality Council be able to define the selection criteria for applications where their number is greater than the maximum number of authorisations. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! To applicants: Do you question the fact that there are internal roads besides public roads? Are you questioning the fact that your own project provides that the municipality council is to lay down rules on the location of the places of sale and administration of alcoholic beverages and therefore the imposition of rigid licensing criteria is contrary to this? Do you question the fact that many areas of construction operate on the basis of internal roads, so when issuing permits, the distance criterion, which is only defined as, I quote, is not applicable? Not to mention the high-rise buildings, where the premises can be located at the bottom and at the top, on the viewing terrace, and various entities can lead it. So in the name of obvious obviousness and elementary logic, I ask, will you really question this amendment, although it removes [[♪ The bell ♪]] She's obviously a project error?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u230	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 176 voted against - 249, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 laying down rules for the authorisation of entrepreneurs whose activities consist in the organisation of receptions. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 49 votes against - 245, 127 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Members ask the whole question. Member of Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In view of the lack of definition of the concept of "public place" - because there is no concept of "public place" in Polish law, there is no such definition - and the introduction of a general ban on the consumption of alcoholic beverages in public places contained in the revised article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 I regret to say that the project under examination in this respect will increase the strictness of the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism. So, I'm sorry again, we can't support him. Public places are part of our little homelands. People have the right to feel at ease, including proverbial beer, where they meet. Local communities, young people, adults, neighbors, seniors are waiting for such solutions. What do they get? No, no, no, no, [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u232	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u233	Why was there no sober thinking on this project? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u234	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The negative effect of alcohol on the human body is undisputed and undoubtedly alcoholism must be countered. Unfortunately, the procedated design of this positive effect does not provide. Poles will buy alcohol anyway, only in the gray area, where there is no control of what is sold there, and without tax. But it's not over. The rules will cause financial problems for small shops, pubs, which are often the primary source of family support. They will reduce competition, i.e. higher prices, the treatment of entrepreneurs differently depending on the location of their premises in one locality, which may violate the constitutional principle of equality, as well as take away entrepreneurs and entities of TSOs the possibility of selling beer at events for catering companies. It's awful lobbyist, by the way. That's why I wanted to ask. Is it true that excessive rigour of design restrictions will be a source of business problems, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's gonna drive the gray zone...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u236	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u237	...the alcohol market and whether, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is an introduction to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u238	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u239	...prohibition? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u240	The first question was a question to the applicant. On behalf of the applicants, Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Szk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u241	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This project is not a rigorous project, it was a rigorous project on the same matter submitted 1.5 years ago by Members of the Civic Platform. Our project is an expression of compromise, it is supported by local governments, by the Polish City Union, by the Polish Metropolis Union. They expect that they will finally have the tools to fight against the degradation of the centers of Polish cities, degradation, within which the business card of the centers of Polish cities is not what we have the best, but are often groups standing in front of shops and consuming alcohol. These self-governments should have the right to fight and this bill gives them tools. With these tools they will be able to respond to the expectations of the residents, and the residents have the right to feel safe, have the right to live in a neighborhood where there is no storm, no hooliganism, no vandalism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u242	Yet the Minister of Health, Konstanty Radziwiłł, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a parliamentary project and a minister of health. He's just looking into it, but he's looking with great kindness... [[Voice from the room: Just like two whole years.]] ...and I would not ask for the opportunity to speak if it were not for one of the Members who criticised this proposal during the discussion, saying that it creates additional restrictions and makes it difficult for young people to access alcohol. For God's sake! I'm asking you to support this bill. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's manipulation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u244	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Voice from the room: Cigarettes worse than smog.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2024 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. There were 246 votes against and 161 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the law on sobriety and combating alcoholism and the law on security of mass events. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 28 hours 12 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform the High House that a group of students from the primary school in Poniki, the municipality of Sępopol, the district of Bartoszyce are currently listening to the discussions. Welcome. [[Applause]] It's a long drive, Friday. We return to the consideration of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to refer the draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law at first reading. If the motion for rejection is rejected, we will decide on the referral of this bill to the committee. The question is raised by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u245	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the Kukiz15 club will not support the project in this version, because in the part concerning the electoral code it eliminates the JOWs. Unfortunately, you're destroying something that worked best in the election process. I have a question for the Member of the applicant: How many cases of violations, violations of law where there are one-mandate districts? And here's a little appeal to the president. Mr. President, why are you making this bill a gift to the Civic Platform? For the first time we have this story, that your bill will help the Platform in future local elections, and the whole odium will fall on you as a party. I don't get it at all. Politically speaking, it's suicide. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But that's not the point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u246	Thank you, sir. At the moment, Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club, is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Why do you want this bill to be ruthless, I would even say, brutally stubborn government elections? Why do you want to eliminate thousands of active Poles, Poles who do not want to belong to any political party, who do not even want to belong to any political committee, but simply want to be active for their small homelands? Why are you manipulating electoral positions a few months before the election? Allegedly, you have 40%. support. Courage, open the helium and stand under normal conditions for the battlefield. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about self-government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u248	Thank you. I don't know if it's 40%. That's not enough. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to understand well the provisions of this Act on a perverse title suggesting increased participation and control of citizens, we need to go to local level. E.g. you can go down to the Brzeszcze municipality. There, in villages: Przeciszyn, Zasole, Skidziń always chose one councilman. The Prime Minister lives in Przeczyń. But they chose a councilman who was independent of political formations. Today, perhaps the councilman Przeciszyn will be a resident of Zasol or vice versa. Either Krakow or Tarnow will be a resident, if that is the political will of PiS, because it is known that the Prime Minister is loyally following all orders. [[Voices from the Elections Room.]] If you have a functioning Misiewicz, on which you will want to bet in the future in Brzeszczy, he will become the councilman. And the bigger... [[He won't stay.]] Only one citizen will benefit from this: citizen Kaczyński. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u250	Thank you. Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This vote, which is before us, is in fact a vote on the fate of our small homelands and the compatriots who live there, whose voice you have effectively blocked by using a specific draft, which is a parliamentary project. The parliamentary project on such an important issue, connected with an important segment of our country, is indeed unworthy of the matter. Eliminating one-mandate electoral districts in localities up to 20,000. citizens, while reducing the number of seats in electoral districts to influence electoral fate by amending the rules, criticize all possible institutions, ending with the State Election Commission, which at the end you want to bring to legal status from 1946 to 1952, when [[♪ The bell ♪]] The biggest electoral forgeries in the history of contemporary Poland took place. Shame! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u252	Thank you. Marcin Horała, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, we just heard a series of lies from this bleacher. So I'm asking the applicants if it's true that this project doesn't, in any way, limit citizens' rights to run... [[Voices from the O.R.: Restricts!]] ...that they can create election committees for citizens? [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: This is a lie.]] Moreover, in municipalities up to 20,000. It will be easier for residents without an electoral threshold because the real electoral threshold will be lower than in a one-mandate electoral district. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: 20%.]] In particular, while listening to the voices of those from the PSL formation who defend the current state of electoral law, I would like to read briefly one sentence from an article: They fought for the position of Councilman of the Seym of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, Mayor of the Magistrate and Councilman in the Magistrates. It's for them, as the investigators have determined, for vodka and cash, people. PSL bought votes of support in last year's local elections. [[What's this?]] The Central Bureau of Corruption has already detained nine people, and this is not the end of arrests of the PSL bribery ring. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u254	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2014 after scandalous local elections it was not the PiS, but the National Movement organized demonstrations under the PKW. There were a few thousand people here. As a result of these manifestations, which went across the whole country, which we organized, yesterday we did not deal with Mr.Jaworski representing the PKW, only with Mr.Hermelinski, because then the PKW resigned. And then the PiS rather cut off from these protests and from these manifestations. Today you are introducing a law, which on the one hand has a number of positive solutions, such as drafting a electoral card, a type of monitoring, but in its entirety it is a law that introduces such a new amount of bureaucracy, that I fear that in autumn 2018 we will again protest against scandalous elections, as it did 4 years ago, because it creates a malfunctioning system. And I will repeat the appeal: don't pick up the councilman from the Wings, the Upper Wrestlers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] from which I come, because this system that you are introducing, unfortunately the smallest village will take the floor in the council of municipalities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u256	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, I wanted to ask you a question, but after Mr Horala's speech, I just want to protest. I mean, this level of speech, this argument is simply unworthy of the Polish Parliament's deliberations... [[But this is a quote. This is a quote from the Polish-speaking German portal on top.]] ...and you should be ashamed of what you have said here, for the project you have prepared, and for the consequences that this project will bring for Poland and for the quality of the elections in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u258	Thank you. The representative of the applicants is Mr Łukasz Schreiber, and the question was to him. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, I would like to draw attention to the High House that all clubs that apply for the rejection of the project at first reading are opposed to increasing the participation of citizens in local governments. [[Applause]] [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: A lie!]] [[Voices from the room: Lying!]] They are against the citizens' budgets in the city on the rights of the county in this draft law against raising the status of the citizens' initiative resolution. They are against strengthening the position of councillors at all levels. [[You're manipulating. You're lying.]] They are against a real and not just a declaratory discussion, also at all levels of government. High Izbo! Case two: this issue of a gift for the PO, I understand, it's in terms of a joke. Have you ever heard of the Platform ever protesting something that would benefit it? I don't think so. Third case. It's a question of manipulation in the circles you're reporting. I understand that you measure others with your measure and so do you. You've been building districts for the Senate, so now you think it's going to happen as part of this bill. But I would like to point out to you, High Izbo, that today the districts shape those who have the greatest interest in this, the councillors themselves at all levels. [[Applause]] And is this the right situation, or is this the right situation? Here's another thing. The parliamentary project - in this room there is a surprise from the Polish People's Party. Except the electoral code that was adopted for your government is whose project was it? Not an envoy? High Izbo! On the issue of stubbornness, the alleged stubbornness of elections, I ignore the fact that in municipalities up to 20,000. there is a lifted electoral threshold that there are a number of additional good solutions for small committees, but I will briefly draw attention to the facts. And the facts are that in the elections, when the principle of proportionality was last in force, in 2010, the committees that did not represent political parties in Parliament reached 55%. and 71% places in local governments, municipalities. High Izbo! The facts are also that it was the Law and Justice that received the most votes in 2014 in the elections to the municipalities' councils. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: To the Seymists...]] It is also true that the Law and Justice received at that time 2900 councillors, more than on a proportional basis 4 years earlier. Why are you lying? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Because the election was faked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u260	Thank you. The formal application is submitted by Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a break on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. I would like Mr Horała to apologize to the Poles during this break, firstly, for informing Europe for listening in the European Parliament, [[Applause]] For lying about the fake elections, you think the fake elections you won in 2014. Mr President, please apologise to thousands of Poles from the regional electoral committees, including sympathizers and members of the PiS. They were counting those votes. They counted the votes you won the election. And the State Election Commission, which you want to bring to the party body - you are moving from the judicial system to the government-party system - under the chairmanship of Judge Hermelinski conducted the 2015 elections. You win. And there was an unprecedented situation when one party ruled for the first time in Poland. Does anyone claim that these elections have been forged? [[Self-government.]] You're still mentioning the name of the PSL from this speaker. I know you're most afraid of us, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I know you're most afraid of us in this election. It's gonna be a fight between our parties, but it's supposed to be fair, not sewn together. [[Self-government.]] You're sewn underneath each other. You've cut this ordination apart, and you're gonna scrape this election. You want to steal free elections from Poles, you want to conduct them in such a way that they are convenient only for one party. Enough hypocrisy! [[Applause]] [[Remember the last municipal election.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Fair choices.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u262	Thank you. The opposing proposal is made by Marcin Horała.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u263	Mr. Marshal, it's the opposite. [[Voices from the room: Apologize!]] I don't have anything to apologize for. For telling the truth? [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few more facts. In the previous elections to the Seyms there were almost 20% of the votes void. [[Voice from the hall: So what?]] Nothing has changed in the order of the Sejmians in relation to the previous elections. That's one thing. [[Yes, sir!]] Secondly, PSL in Gdynia. In my city, the domination of the liberal electorate - I regret, but this is the reality - there has been an increase in support of the 2006 elections by 1000%. And they said it was because there was such a popular candidate. Janusz Kupcewicz, a famous footballer, got 9,000. Voices. [[But it's already been done.]] How much did he get in the parliamentary election a year later? 392 votes. [[Applause]] Mr Kosiniak-Kamish himself said that the ballot box is such a box - you throw in the Mikołajczyk and it comes out ZSL or something. [[Voice from the room: Gomulka.]] Those days are just over, and that's why it hurts so much. [[Applause]] And they won't come back when in Poland it was possible to win elections the way you did it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u264	There's a formal request for a break. We listened to the formal proposal with a vote against. [[Voice from the room: Not a word was said.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 194 voted against - 235, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in the 2001 print would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 199 against 235. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are now moving on to the matter of referral of the bill to committee. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is that the draft be sent to the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws to be set up for consideration. In the discussion, a request was made to refer this draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. I will put to the vote the proposal of the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will refer the draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Questions are asked by Members. Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, which you want to debate in committee, whether local or extraordinary, is cutting out, Mr President, 3.5 million people with disabilities, 3.5 million people who will not be able to vote. Enough of that, cutting out social organizations and moving places so they can't take part in the local elections. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the manipulation of Law and Justice by election. You want to write down who's going to win the municipal election because you're scared. You're afraid of the Horal who has a PSL complex. I don't blame you, they exist for a hundred and twenty-six years, and you're only 16. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Quiet, don't yell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u266	Hey, hey, that's very interesting. I would ask you to ask questions, not statements. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u267	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, why are we creating a new subcommittee if we have a standing committee? By creating a subcommittee, we do not respect taxpayers' money and we disregard the Sejm committee, which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, should deal with such a project. Back to what the applicant said. Mr. President, I bet you a box of local beer that this bill, when it comes into force, you make polling points for the P.O., and you get whipped. This is how it's gonna end. A box of local beer from Olsztyn. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u268	Thank you. Mr Horała, Member of the Law and Justice Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for applicants. Is it true that this project does not limit the rights of persons with disabilities in any way? There is the possibility of a proxy voting, there are Braille stickers for the ballot card. [[We're discussing the committee.]] What, on the other hand, is limited? The possibility of creating a system for buying electoral packages. There was a walbrzych scandal, there was a Podkarpacka scandal, which I already quoted here... [[Voice from the O.R.: Not on the subject.]] ...there was a scandal in Pyrzyce and there were many other scandals... [[Voice from the O.R.: Talk about it.]] ...where a voting system was created, e.g. for alcohol. [[Voice from the room: We are talking about committee, about referral to committee.]] [[Okay, here's the thing.]] In a situation where you can buy votes that are ordered as mailing voting packages, it is very simple and we remove it. [[That's about it?]] Since it is a very important project, it is important that it be addressed to the Extraordinary Commission... [[Mr. Marshal, please summon the envoy to the matter.]] ...which will give him the right rank, will also allow the vote of the social side to be dealt with in an efficient manner and to change the electoral law for the better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u270	However, I would just ask you to put your speech in a robe of questions. Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[But the question is, don't say another word.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Horała stated as a reason for changing the electoral rules that there was 20% in the last elections in 2014 Voices that don't matter. You either don't know, or you're pretending, Mr. President, that within the structure of 20% votes not valid 80% they were blank cards. How do you fake an empty card? [[Applause]] [[How do they know how to change cards?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] On the other hand, I agree that the average in the country was 20% Voices that don't matter... [[How do you do that?]] [[Where are the protocols?]] ...only 35 in the municipality of Koneck, the district of Aleksander, where is who? [[Voices from the room: PiS!]] And that's the answer to that question. [[Applause]] And last but not least, if you're already so perverse that after winning the 2014 elections, you go to [[♪ The bell ♪]] The European Union and you report on Poland, I congratulate you on this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u272	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to draw the attention of Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, who talks about the tradition of PSL, that the National Movement also has a political tradition - 130 years. Comparing 130 years with 16 when you're in a party that was formed two years ago... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Cool.]] And the next two years that he's gonna live, that's gonna be max, that's not really a good phrase. [[Applause]] [[Mr Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: corrected. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u274	No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Why not?]] First don't give false facts, and then don't straighten it out. We'll proceed with the vote. [[I was still on the record.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of referring the draft law contained in print 2001 to the Extraordinary Commission would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 357 against - 77, with four abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted and sent the bill to the Extraordinary Commission. We return to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the electoral code law and some other laws. In the discussion, a request was made to refer the draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is that the draft be sent to the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws to be set up for consideration. I will put to the vote the motion of the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will refer the draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From 1990, councillors in municipalities to 20,000. residents have always been elected in majority elections. Each small community had its representative in its councils, could represent them. This ordination you want to introduce will deprive hundreds of the village of your representative. This will be the increased participation of citizens in the control of the municipality. I have a question for you, ladies and gentlemen, if you forgot to file a motion to reject a project submitted by the Kukiz Club15 or have you chickened out, because it is clear that the Kukiz Club's proposal goes completely the other way than what you proposed. These projects cannot be dealt with together. I have a question for the applicant how he imagines this situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't it going to be like, step by step, that every point of yours is going to be thrown in the trash? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u276	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Reporter, Mr Schreiber, is it true that when you wrote this law, you showed unintended sincerity? [[But this is the Kukiza project, Mr. President, you don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Voice from the room: It's not the bill.]] Because in the text of this bill you're using for the committee you're planning to set up, the second, more important committee, the term... You're calling it a committee to determine the outcome of the election. [[Applause]] not to count the votes. [[What are you talking about, sir? That's not the point.]] That's what the new bill, the new election procedure, is supposed to look like according to the PiS project. The Poles will vote, and you will determine the results. [[The results have already been established.]] The bad news is you can figure out a lot, but you're still gonna lose the election. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u278	Thank you. Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Supporters of the one-mandate electoral districts say that this will allow the local government to be pushed away. There's no bigger myth. Let's say I'm checking. Elections in Węczyeż, 2014, are valid for one-mandate electoral districts. The Civic Platform receives 35% Voices. [[That's a great score.]] That's 35%. The votes shall be translated into 13 out of 15 seats on the council of the municipality. Local committees receive more than 50% Voices. That's 50%. The votes, the majority of the residents, translates into 2 seats from 15 on the council of the municipality. Is it? Is that a denial? [[Applause]] I would therefore like to ask one more question. You're also talking about how this will encourage citizens to take part in the election. Is that true, since only one candidate was elected in the one-mandate electoral districts in 1736 and those only candidates were elected automatically? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u280	Thank you. Would the applicant's representative Andrzej Maciejewski like to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u281	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the last 15 minutes have shown only one thing: that the party system, the letter system in local governments goes to the trash and really needs JOWs. The fights between the gentlemen, who's been falsifying how much and how much, show that the JOWs are the only healthy solution, [[Applause]] that it's a denial of self-government. We're not confused with politics, we're talking about stubbornness. Both parties arguing here today are talking about stubbornness, and we want to restore the local government to citizens. And that's what JOWs are for. Ladies and gentlemen, another question. A friend of mine is talking about the results of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a democratic system. In a democratic system, as it happens, somebody wins, somebody loses. PO has a claim on Law and Justice that with a result of 38% He rules and divides. But they won the election. Can you blame them for winning? No. There's always someone to win. And now the question is, if we have a list where there are 3 and 4 people in JOWs and everyone gets their score, is it undemocratic that someone wins and someone loses? Finally. This is the essence of democracy, not a random case. That's what the voters wanted. So let us not be offended by democracy, let us not be afraid of citizens and let them act, wake them up. The JOWs aren't panaceas, they're not megarecepts, they're one of the means to wake citizens to life. Why do we not have social support among the citizens of the Sejm, we do not have that trust? Why? That's the problem. We need to wake up society. The JOWs are such a formula. Everyone has the right to run, everyone has the right to vote, everyone has the right to be settled afterwards, there is responsibility. That's the difference. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not be afraid of the JOWs. Let's let people build small homelands, let's not be afraid. Here in the Seym, let the parties rule. If that's the case, then let's give our citizens freedom. And one more thing, Mr. President. Bet's in. Brewery box, if the Platform wins. That's it, thank you. It's a bet. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u282	But, sir, I beg your pardon, how can you speak from this speaker about the cases of the brewery? Well, sir... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But why not?]] I'm so sorry, sir. And that's in such a serious situation. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[To the president...]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of referring the draft law contained in print 2023 to the Extraordinary Commission would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 389 against - 45, 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the proposal and has therefore referred this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws, which will be set up for consideration. We return to the consideration of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary bill on the fixed cash allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. The question is asked by Mr Krystian Jarubas, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u283	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The PiS in the election campaign said there's no return: there's no way. Today, after two years, he says, "You can't. It is not possible to introduce a project of the Polish People's Party concerning 500 PLN supplement for pensioners. I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Dear Mr Kasprzak, before, under the rule of the Polish People's Party, did such allowances function? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u284	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question, because we hear that this project is not suitable for anything, because there is no money for it, there is no money to give seniors additionally, once a year, 300, 400 or 500 PLN, it is worth to add, to those seniors who have a pension under 2 000 PLN. zł, so those rich people wouldn't get any more of that money. How, then, are seniors different from young people or parents? Are those seniors gonna burn that money in the oven? Are they gonna eat them? No. I mean, they're gonna spend that money, too. They're gonna drive consumption. That's one thing. Secondly, since there is no money to support seniors to support Polish consumption, will you all support, from Law and Justice, Platforms, PSL, Modern, Kukiz We spend PLN 0.5 billion each year on carriers of folders. That money we could use for seniors, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So they can at least have a decent Christmas. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u286	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about this bill. Isn't this bill's cheap populism? [[Oh, my God!]] Tell the Minister of Labour and Social Policy how much Law and Justice have given and helped in pro-social policies for pensioners and pensioners. There were similar draft laws submitted under the rule of law and justice, and as far as I know, the POs and PSLs rejected all these projects. Tell me... [[And it didn't do anything in return.]] Yeah, it didn't work. PSL didn't give pensioners and rencists anything. Please answer me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Lie!]] [[Voice from the room: You're lying!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u288	Thank you. The representative of the applicants is Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, and the question was to him. There you go. Unless you don't answer. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[The Minister's office, Mr. Marshal.]] Wants or doesn't want to? Here you go, the representative of the applicants Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u289	Mr. Marshal! Dear Government! There was a question for me, High Izbo, what it looked like in previous years. It would take longer to talk about this, because in various years we have a different situation, but in the most difficult year, when the crisis was still going on in the world and in Poland the situation was not the best, the valorization was 85 PLN, while there was valorisation when pensions were reduced in many European countries. We remember those times. European countries have reduced pension benefits. We had 85 zlotys, and so it was in the following years. This year is the worst year, it is a dramatic year, because this valorization is 10 PLN, and in the case of many pensioners it was... [[Lie!]] It's not a lie. Ask the pensioners. Today millions of pensioners get 850 zlotys. Did PSL make such requests? That's what he applied for. We applied for this last year. Yeah, last year. And PiS supported it, only conditionally - first he rejected our motion... [[The piss did.]] ...and then he put up an identical one and voted it out. [[Applause]] Why all the fun? What's the point of having so much fun? Was it or wasn't it? That's what happened. At the moment, we are applying because we have winter: coal - 1 000. Zloty, no drugs for free. Where are those drugs for free? [[Lies!]] Ask me where these drugs are. Food - How much did it cost? The inflation's over 2%, and we're giving... Of course, we're gonna operate billions of dollars here, and we're gonna talk about how much this year, how much we've already given to pensioners for two years, how much in 10 years we're gonna give them billions. Let's just think about it, because it's still 850 zlotys. I suggest that everyone close their eyes before the vote and do a conscience check. 850 zł - will I survive a month or will I not survive a month? This should be your reflection, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] If this doesn't work on you, there's nothing left to touch you. And for there to be a piece of justice - we have your 500+ proposal, although it wasn't what we wanted, we supported it. Did we? [[Voice from the room: Graceful.]] Every step of the way, we emphasize it and enjoy it. Although this is not what it was supposed to be, that is, for every child, we are making our application today. Support this motion. On the other hand, the Minister has just... PSL is and will be, don't be afraid of PSL... Don't be so afraid of PSL. That's because you're scared of PSL, you're doing this kind of thing. [[He's gonna kill himself.]] Don't make that kind of shit. The minister just said how much money it's gonna cost. He was wrong by now, he was wrong -- 100 billion, 200 billion, people. The money is. We hear every moment from the Minister's mouth that it will be 500+ for pensioners. In a month, in two months, it lasted a year. I ask: When will it be 500+ for pensioners? I know when it's gonna be. [[When it's time.]] It's not until next fall. Why? [[Voice from the room: Elections!]] [[It will be.]] Because elections, that's right, that's right. [[Applause]] So let's not play retired here, let's do... [[You guys play.]] ...once fair, there's a chance. Anyway, the money issue, because yesterday, this element of lack of resources also appeared in the debate... [[And on TV...]] Well, what is the lack of resources, since a week ago, two weeks ago, during Friday's votes, two weeks ago, we took from the Social Security Office four billion funds, funds that were supposed to go to retirement? [[No more talking.]] This project will cost 2,800 million, and we took 4 billion. So who's telling the truth? I'm going back to what I said last night. [[1 billion for TV.]] When are we telling the truth? When do we lie? Whether in the morning or evening or yesterday or tonight... [[That's for the PSL question.]] That's a fundamental question. My fellow Members, once again, squint your eyes, grab your head and think... [[You squint. Eight years.]] ...can an older man survive for $850? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You should have squinted eight years ago.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u290	The Minister of the Family, Elizabeth Rafalska, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that Members are very busy and perhaps not everyone knows what the Government of Law and Justice did in 2017 for social reforms. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 two important social security projects were implemented, which were addressed to the Polish society. The first is the restoration of the previous retirement age - 60 years for women, 65 years for men - of the retirement age, which the Coalition of the Civic Platform and PSL in 2012 extended, and compared this age for men and women to 67 years of age. So we're in the first quarter after the previous retirement age has been restored. The second is an increase in the lowest benefits guaranteed by the State, I am talking about raising the minimum pension. As far as the retirement age is concerned, when you raised it, you didn't even know it, you didn't bother to recognize how many people were completely excluded, deprived of retirement benefits, how much access to the labour market was also limited. This can be seen perfectly from today's applications - for more than 250 thousand. decisions issued by 160,000. the decision concerns persons who have received low pre-retirement benefits, low pensions or who have been entitled to unemployment benefits or who have not had any benefits at all. These people today can count on low retirement times, in the case of women almost PLN 1700, but it is probably better to have pension benefits of the amount I was talking about, than to have a first-rate pension of not much higher than PLN 1000. Mr Kasprzak talked about the fact that you want to propose 500 PLN for pensioners as a permanent supplement. Mr President, within 8 years, you have been able to propose such a solution, and I assure you... [[Yes, sir.]] ...that today we would certainly not withdraw from this benefit, but we would continue to do so. Why didn't you? [[Applause]] You haven't had time for this in eight years? And now I'm going to tell you if we gave you 500 zlotys because such an allowance is proposed for minimum pensions. [[Too bad it's not for everyone.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have made a really conscious political decision to raise minimum pensions from 1 March to the amount that no one has ever done before. We raised minimum pensions by 13.3%, from 882 PLN to 1000 PLN. Even roughly counting, ladies and gentlemen, this is growth. with a minimum pension of 112 zł times 10, 9 months - this is probably more than a one-off allowance, and an increase in the minimum pension amount results in every year. We raised the minimum pension, raised the social pension by almost PLN 100, and by 13%, the pension for partial incapacity for work, the pension for total incapacity for work, and on 29 September 2017 a law was adopted which allows the benefit of this increased benefit to all those persons who were on incapacity for full or partial work and did not meet the requirement of internship. And this right will benefit from an additional 105 thousand. persons. You can see, ladies and gentlemen, clearly what these actions are... [[You can't see anything.]] ...as they are precisely addressed to a group of pensioners with the lowest benefits. We can also talk about the valorisation, which will be in 2018 and which will cost more than 5 billion. Previously, there were much lower values, they were ordered by us, because there were no such values of peas. In 2016, ladies and gentlemen, because we have adopted the budget partly prepared by you, we have directed these one-off allowances as a one-year solution, because we believe that our solution, the system solution that raised the minimum benefit, is a much better solution. And so far, ladies and gentlemen, we have our own program, our own time to investigate for solutions. We remember about pensioners, about their very difficult situation, because retirement farms today are much more vulnerable to poverty than families with children because we managed here. And we will not benefit from your ideas in this situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u292	Thank you very much. [[Voice in the room: corrected. My name...]] No, no. The Minister didn't quote you, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] She was referring to... Please refer to me later in your statements. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1913 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 248 voted against - 180, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion denied... accepted, I'm sorry. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the consideration of item 26. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This question is basically for all countries because in the project we propose to leave - small, but still - amounts every month in the pockets of Poles. To vote against this project will mean to support a total state, one that wants to take as much money as possible from its citizens, so that they can be redistributed later, giving it to those whom it considers worthy of receiving it. Ladies and gentlemen! The question is this: Mr applicant, who really would benefit most from these changes? Poor people, those who earn the most common salary in Poland, or 1500 per hand, or maybe the so-called. Fat cats you'd love to look everywhere? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u294	The applicant is Mr Blazej Parda, right? There you go, you will answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice applied to reject the draft law of the Kukiz club15, but we will not give up and we will continue to inform about how disgraceful Poles are being treated because for 10 years the relief for commuting to work has not been updated. It's a good thing there's this conclusion, because maybe today Poles will find out that they're made grey in white gloves. The employees lost about PLN 4 billion during this period. Where are they? The cost is now 500 million. I think that this 4 billion at that time would probably result in the result that it would be possible today, when there is a good economic situation, to return to that. Of course, people who are the poorest will benefit, because for them the tens of zlotys - because we are talking about tens of zlotys per year - this will be a significant amount. And what's important is that they're employees... We're talking about 14 million people who work for an employment contract. They also work so that you can make money, whether you're workers or free eaters, and we know there's no shortage of work here. I also have a question about why Law and Justice and the Civic Platform are coalitioners in tax raising. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u296	You must be directing this question to yourself, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 1914 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 225 voted against - 198, 8 abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We are returning to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Act on Nature Conservation and the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments. One amendment was tabled in the discussion and a request to proceed to the third reading without delay without referring the draft law to the committee. I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of proposing to proceed immediately to the third reading of the bill will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 418 voted against - 14, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2019. The amendment was submitted to the ladies and gentlemen for print no 2019. In the amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 2a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 401 against - 5, with 27. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the 2019 Draft Print Act as a whole, along with the amendment adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 432, no one voted against, two Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Nature Conservation. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the 150th anniversary of the birth of President Ignacy Mościcki (prints No. 1953 and 2018). I ask Mr Robert Kołakowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I have the honour to present a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the 150th anniversary of the birth of President Ignacy Mościcki, print No. 1953. Following the first reading and the examination of the draft resolution at its meeting on 22 November 2017, the Committee on Culture and Media requests the adoption by the High Sejm of a resolution of the following content: [[The Gathered Rise Up]] On December 1, 2017, the 150th anniversary of the birth of Ignacy Mościcki - President of the Republic of Poland in 1926-1939, international renowned scientist and inventor, co-founder of the Polish chemical industry. Ignacy Mościcki was born in Mierzanów K. Ciechanowa in a noble family with strong independence traditions. His grandfather, father, and uncles fought in national uprisings. In his youth Ignacy Mościcki was associated with the National League and then joined the PPS. He was part of a network of assassins planning to assassinate the Russian governor in Warsaw, but because of the deconspiracy he had to flee the country. He was in exile in England, then in Switzerland, where he continued his scientific career by becoming a lecturer at the University of Friburg. He worked there on efficient ways of using nitrogen and obtaining its derivatives, purification of crude oil, as well as production of capacitors, with significant successes in this field, among others. Invented a method of extracting nitric acid from the air. In later years he was a lecturer and rector of the Lviv University of Technology and then a professor at the Warsaw University of Technology. In addition to his research work, he also organized the Polish chemical industry. He became the director of the State Nitrogen Union Factory in Chorzów and the founder of the State Nitrogen Union Factory in Mościce near Tarnow. Ignacy Mościcki was highly appreciated in the scientific community. He has been an expert in many areas, and all his scientific achievements are impressive. He published more than sixty works, was the author of forty patents, received several doctorates of honoris causa of European universities and two titles of honor professor. His rights to his patents - of great wealth - were transferred free of charge to the reborn Republic. On 4 June 1926 Józef Piłsudski became President of the Second Republic of Poland and later became one of the most important politicians of the Sanitation Camp, focusing mainly on economic matters and at the same time as President becoming a guarantee of the stability of the state. After the outbreak of World War II, saving the continuity of the Polish state left the country, he was interned in Romania and handed over the position of President of his successor on 30 September 1939. He spent the rest of his life in Switzerland - a country that gave him honorary citizenship. He died on October 2, 1946 in Versoix near Geneva. In 1993 his remains returned to Poland and were deposited in the crypt of the Presidential basilica of the architectral St. John the Baptist in Warsaw. Appreciating the merits of President Ignacy Mościcki for Poland and the outstanding scientific achievements, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland honors His memory and pays tribute to one of the most outstanding representatives of Polish intelligence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u298	Thank you very much. I propose that the Sejm adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] There's an objection. If there is an objection, we must have a second reading. Does anyone report at second reading? No one's checking in. Let's move on to the vote. [[Tell me who objected.]] [[Voice from the room: Winnicki.]] The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print no 2018. [[Voice from the room: Who objected?]] [[Voice from the room: Anonymous.]] Since Mr Winnicki objected, we are voting. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 2018 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 414 against - 3 with 11 abstentions. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the 150th anniversary of the birth of President Ignacy Mościcki. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution submitted by the Sejm Bureau on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws (print No 2050). The Sejm decided to refer draft laws to the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws: - amending certain laws to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities, as contained in print 2001, - amending the electoral code law and certain other laws contained in print No 2023, Consequently, the Sejm Bureau, on the basis of Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, presented a draft resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the above-mentioned Sejm. The Extraordinary Commission. You have come to the debate at first reading. Doesn't anybody else volunteer? I'm shutting down then... As a time limit, I'm offering you three minutes. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank you, I understand that the proposal has been accepted. Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club, was the first to come forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill that we are unfortunately going to work on is bad, harmful and written on our knees by, quote: Little Kazik. The Civic Platform Club will do everything to ensure that in the course of the work on this bill, changes are made that will not interfere with the electoral process and will not result in it being stubborn, politicised and that the chances of winning in this process, in these elections, will have only one lead party. First of all, we do not agree to the liquidation of one-mandate electoral districts in small municipalities and cities. We introduced this solution in 2010 and it worked. It made people feel like they were hosts of their little homelands. They didn't have to sign up for any parties, no committees. They reported a one-man election committee and became councillors. They worked actively for the local community. In addition, reducing the electoral districts to 2-, 3-mandates will de facto increase the electoral threshold in extreme cases even to a figure of 20.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u300	Mr President, we are talking about a resolution setting up the Extraordinary Commission, not the content of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u301	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u302	I would like to point out to you that we are talking about setting up an Extraordinary Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u303	Yes, sir. I'm telling you what we're going to do as members of this team, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u304	So let's get to the point of setting up an Extraordinary Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u305	We will also oppose the appointment of Commissioners, who will be arbitrary, for the purposes of one group, one party, cut down the electoral districts in order to increase the chances of their rulers. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the President of the State Election Commission very substantively indicated that the preparation of these elections, such a short time to prepare them in the new formula could bring total chaos. The National Election Commission will not be ready for autumn next year. The new IT system will not be ready, the newly appointed Commissioners will not be properly trained. This could cause huge confusion during these elections. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will do anything to improve this evil and harmful project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u306	Thank you, sir. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are debating the establishment of an Extraordinary Commission. The debate on the content of the bill projects has already been conducted. So talk about it. Mr Horała, Member of the Law and Justice Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This committee is to deal with changes projects not only in electoral laws, in the electoral code, but also in local law. It is particularly important for the committee we are now calling to lean on this section on local legislation, which we are not talking about. The Commission will be able to draw attention to the particularly important changes in this area, giving more power to citizens, the greater influence of citizens in the exercise of power in local governments not only at the time of the election, but for four years. This concerns, for example, the civil budget, the citizens' initiative for resolution. You don't want to admit it, you're hiding the fact that you're against these solutions, that you want to reject these solutions, that you want to reject solutions such as those for example. transmission of city councils and registrations, access of citizens to votes of their councillors. Apparently, you're comfortable with your councillors telling the voters one thing and then voting the other way around, and no one can find out what happened. We want to guarantee citizens' access to this information. This committee will also consider a major change in the organisation of the electoral process. Now control of this process, especially in the local elections, is exercised by people directly interested in their outcome, i.e. in the technical aspect, the mayors, in terms of division into districts and circuits - the boards of resolution bodies. So the councilmen who stand in these elections decide for themselves about these districts. There are many reservations that perhaps someday, in the future, some Commissioner will be biased. This is very far-reaching probabilistics, but it is still a much better situation than the current one, when we have a 100-percent guarantee of bias, a 100-percent one, because always about these elections, their organization is decided by whoever runs in them themselves. The last topic on which the committee that we are now creating is the liquidation of one-mandate electoral districts. Once again, I have to straighten out the lies, because otherwise it can't be called, which fall from this bleacher. There's no question of stubborning local governments. Citizens will be able to register citizens' election committees, they will be able to run for elections, and they will not be forbidden. That's not enough. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, that's right. This is a very important matter. What you won't be able to do is take off one at a time as one person. [[Yeah, that's the difference.]] And that's the basic question. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Is the municipality - i.e. even in the smallest municipality - thousands of people, large budgets, legal issues to be dealt with by someone who is unable to handle the simple operation of setting up an electoral committee, who is unable to date 3, 5, 15 neighbours to set up such a committee? What's the problem? What's the problem? [[One of them has to come in to blow you up first.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us set up this committee so that we can prepare these good changes in the local governments, the pro-Citizens, which affect the integrity of the elections in a smooth and reliable manner. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u308	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u309	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Elections are a celebration of democracy. The topic is important, serious and unseriously debated by the Polish Parliament. Question: "Why could it not be possible to use already existing committees, committees of government, codification committees to deal with this?" You wouldn't really have to squawk and discuss here today. So it turns out that we're taking this subject seriously, and at the same time we're starting to play on time. If we really want to build a good electoral code, which is the right thing to do... Nobody here, ladies and gentlemen - here I am addressing colleagues from the Law and Justice - does not question the need to strengthen the role of men of trust, cameras, transparency, transparency and all these things, no one is questioning the strengthening of the role of councillors, no one is questioning, I ask you, that at last the councillors have the powers to control the councillor, so that the opposition club also has the right to act, to be more active. No one's questioning that, sir, in Kukiz15. We say: let us take matters very seriously and do it properly, professionally and not on the basis that we are drawing a new electoral map less than a year before the election. Ladies and gentlemen, the classic says it doesn't matter who's voting, but who's counting, and today we can tell, and he's drawing the constituency. Because that's how it's gonna end. A year before the election. Let's learn to build good practices, and good practice says that if we change the electoral code, it's not a year before the election, and for the next two terms, so that it's time for the PKW to get ready for the computer system to work, and not that you're gonna be throwing each other off, who ruined this election more in what year. That's not the point. We are talking about a very serious matter not for the Law and Justice, not for the Platform, but for Poland, for Poles, because it is a celebration of Polish democracy. And here at this point I have a hot appeal for this committee to come to this really very seriously, not afraid to listen to the citizens, so that members, committee and the highest political power open themselves to a public hearing, at the invitation of all local communities, to invite representatives of the PKW, with a very specific question: Is the PKW able to physically introduce you to the next municipal elections, in a computer sense, and is there money for this? 'Cause we're gonna have to increase the funding, and that's really gonna be a lot of money. Question: "Can't we do all this with our heads, quietly, not as part of unnecessary party fights?" My appeal and my request: let's do it. For today we will support the appointment of this committee in the proposed composition, but I ask for wisdom, not partying. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u310	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u311	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday, for nearly 7 hours, we were debating these two projects that were submitted. The amendments proposed mainly by Members of the Law and Justice are revolutionary, overturning the current electoral system. I very much regret that yesterday you did not have a chance to listen to this debate, that the benches of the Members were empty. [[There was nothing to listen to. I didn't want to, but there was nothing to listen to.]] That's too bad, 'cause you could learn a lot about what you're doing in these laws. You could listen to the President of the State Election Commission, who here has warned you, we will be affected by the implementation of the solutions proposed by the State. At the moment, in the State Election Commission, there is in recent stages of testing an IT system which failed elections in 2014. They made a new one. They are prepared according to the current provisions of the electoral code. The system for which we paid millions of dollars from taxpayers' money will go to the basket within a year. I wonder how you will prepare a new IT system that will fully respond to the needs and records of your proposal. You have introduced a bill that has not been consulted in any way. You have introduced a bill that, as I said before, will bring chaos. I get it. I understand that in English. You're a political formation that feels very good in chaos. You're a political formation whose confusion serves because you can do anything in confusion. I guarantee you... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u312	Mr, but talk about the appointment of a committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u313	Mr. Marshal! I want to tell you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u314	...or about the resolution, not about the content of the laws, because this debate is over.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u315	Mr. Marshal, you're wrong because we're calling a committee not only...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u316	I'm asking you to talk to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u317	...but also in the context of the examination of electoral laws. [[Applause]] We are not to discuss the people who are being sent to committee because it is a sovereign decision of individual clubs, but about the content of these laws. Please don't speak to me about this. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Mr Marshal is not here to censor Members' speeches.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u318	I draw your attention, Mr President, to talking about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u319	This is a time for dispute, and you are doing everything you can to gag your mouth. We're not gonna let that happen, no matter what you do.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u320	I draw your attention, Mr President, to the draft resolution on the appointment of an emergency committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u321	Ladies and gentlemen! So that the marshal doesn't take advantage of any miracles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] request a public hearing on 14 December 2017. There you go. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Not 13?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u322	This is a non-regulatory proposal because such applications are not being made at the moment. [[When? This is the first reading.]] So, please, please behave by the book. First of all, you have to act in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[How can you not? This is the first reading.]] [[By the end of the first reading.]] Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will also organise a public hearing on these issues, because when there was time to talk, to consult, to discuss, simply to citizens, but also to social, non-governmental, self-government organizations, mouth gagged. Therefore, we will certainly hold a public hearing in the near future, so that the voice of the citizens can be heard. The Polish People's Party has many reservations and comments, which will be formulated in the form of amendments. We will certainly refer to the change of the electoral commissioners. In such a short period of time there is a very serious concern whether 380 new de facto political officers will be able to effectively secure the electoral process, as regards the correctness and organisation of which the State Election Commission was very critical. We will no longer quote and bully the authors here, but Mr Wojciech Hermelinski does not leave dry thread on these projects. We are very concerned about the destruction of such an important constitutional body as the State Election Commission. It's been said. This is a return to legal status from the darkest period of modern Poland, because the composition of this committee will be a representation of the Stalinist PKW. Is that really what this is about? The State Election Commission, but also other specialists, are very critical of whether the IT system can be effectively secured. We remember the perturbations when the system didn't work in the previous elections. Finally, as a PSL, we will protest very strongly, putting forward the opinions of the most outstanding constitutionalists, on the issue of two-cadence. Whether backwards or not, this is simply a non-constitutional solution, because it violates passive and active electoral law and interferes with the will of the sovereign, and this is simply not to be done. Also - and this is the last thing I want to say - we will be interested in why PiS is so interested in quickly destroying voting cards. We will be presenting an amendment going the other way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u324	I believe that your speech also deviated from the point we are leading, where we are to choose the Extraordinary Commission. I would like to inform you that the list of Members voted in has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. The formal request was made by Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to make a formal request for a break and to explain to Mr Horale what single-mandate electoral districts are. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You said that a councilman who is unable to organize a committee in his community is an incompetent councilman who shouldn't have a mandate. In Proszowice, the chairman of the city council is Krzysztof Wojtusik, a great president supported by all the councillors. He ran from his own committee, didn't have structures, didn't build something on a party basis in his local activities, just acted, acted in his own city and got his support. They're one-mandate electoral districts. I invite you, sir, to myself, to your district, from which I was also elected councillor. These are four villages: Chews, Wolwanowice, Bobin and Kochanów. In these four villages, I was elected from the one-mandate electoral district just as a councilman. I do not consider myself an incompetent person, inappropriate, irresponsible person, because later people in this constituency also gave me a witness and gave me votes and support in the parliamentary elections, which means that I have proved myself during this year in the municipal elections and in fulfilling the councillor's mandate. So please don't insult these great councilmen from individual electoral committees, because they're great people who know where to fix the sidewalk where you have to make a way where you have to help the residents. These are people who aren't brought from Warsaw in files, they're not arranged election lists somewhere in the headquarters, they're just people who know what to do. They need help. And if you want to get into trouble with them, everyone has the opportunity. This is democracy. It's beautiful that everyone has a chance: and the state, and me, and everyone else. So let's not destroy it. And please understand what a one-mandate electoral district is. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u326	Mr Horal, with a vote against, has made the contrary request. There you go. [[And what's the counterclaim here, I'm sorry?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u327	Because it was a formal motion, and this is a motion against a formal proposal, a vote against it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Ladies and gentlemen! The Member absolutely did not understand my statement, which is why the interruption is unreasonable and therefore my proposal is against it. Mr President, and Mr President, and other excellent councillors elected in the one-mandate elections, I am quite sure that, being excellent councillors and local activists, they will have no problem organising an election committee. [[But why?]] It will require 15 people, their neighbors, and they will be able to take off. Moreover, thanks to our amendment to the electoral laws in proportional elections in a larger district without the electoral threshold they will have a better chance, it will be easier, because the real threshold in the multi-ndat district is smaller... [[You don't get it, man, really.]] ...than in a one-mandate district, because in a five-ward district - six-mandate real threshold is 12%. And in JOW, it can be 50%. That is why, sir, we can arrange lessons in the electoral systems in the cloughs, there is no need to take a break in the Seym. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Come on in.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u328	Thank you. So there's a request for a break. We will proceed with the vote. This motion shall be put to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a recess, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 177 voted against - 219, 3 Members abstained. The motion was rejected. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you like to speak? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print 2050 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 380 against - 35, 2 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws. On the basis of the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be convened by the first sitting of the committee in order to establish itself 15 minutes after the end of the vote in Chamber 102. We return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs and the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Repatriation, the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 7. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Repetition Act. Amendments 1 to 7 and 9. The Senate proposes legislative amendments. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 1 to 7 and 9 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. The vote was 3 against - 409, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 8. to Article. 4 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that the Senate saved the situation a little? Unfortunately, this law had one flaw: it had no transitional provisions at all. Therefore, on this occasion, I would like to call on us to take our time in a situation where we do not have to, and to try to create the right so that there is no later situation that we need to fix something later. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u330	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. Two Members voted against - 426. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Foreigners and some other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 22. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on Foreigners. In amendments 1 to 5, from 7 to 10, from 13. 16th, 18th to 22nd, 24th, 26th and 27th. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. Two Members voted against - 417. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 104 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 and Article 1 The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Senate proposes to amend The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 149 of the amended law, the Senate proposes a different wording of paragraph 1. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 12, 23, 25 and 28 to 30. The Senate proposes, among other things, that certain provisions enter into force 30 days after the date of publication. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 1 Member voted against, 421 against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 17th amendment to the article. 343 of the amended law, the Senate proposes a different wording of paragraph 1. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 1 Member voted in favour, 414 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and certain other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment to the article. 1 The amending act containing amendments to the Act on the Protection of Mental Health The Senate proposes in Article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 amendment concerning the need to obtain the consent of the custody court to admit a minor or a person wholly incapacitated to a social security home. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Justice about this bill. A completely different record of this article came out of the Seym. Under the influence of the Minister of Health, the Senate introduces an amendment, as it were, bringing back the opinion of the Minister of Health, with a sharp opposition from the Minister of Justice. At a committee meeting, the Minister of Justice admitted that this provision, as amended, first, is non-constitutional, but secondly, deprives parents of parental rights where there is no need. Of course, in many cases the decision of the family court is necessary and necessary, but in some cases it is not. And such a provision of this law, according to the Minister of Justice, interferes with parental authority, depriving her of it. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice about this issue, because it is very important, delicate matter, all the more so that children are sent home. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Social assistance is most often directed...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u332	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u333	...and parents agree when the situation in the family is already very dramatic.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u334	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u335	To the Minister of Justice. [[Voices from the room: How?]] To the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u336	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Question, Marshal.]] [[The question was.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. For - 128, against - 289, 1 Member abstained. [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]] The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourism Services. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 (1) of the Senate proposes that words not constitute a significant substitute for words less than 25% It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 5th Senate proposes an editorial change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 1 voted in favour, 408 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th Amendment, the Senate in the added article containing amendments to the Consular Law Act in Article. 39 (1) (a) Point 3 (3) (a), (b), (c), (c), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 1 Member voted in favour, 419 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic Law and certain other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 5. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Road Traffic Law Act. In the third amendment, among others. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 80s. 1 The Senate proposes that this provision apply to a vehicle not previously registered on the territory of the Republic of Poland or abroad. Amendments 1 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a good law, and we need it, and we are very limited in its scope. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you are aware, because this is an amendment of the Senate - throughout the legislative process this law has been praised by everyone in this Seym, and this amendment we turn off used cars. And I remind you that Poles are not such a rich nation that everyone can afford new cars. So that I propose that you consult each other on this amendment, whether it is worth voting for, because the social side has already resented it. They wanted to speak at the committee meeting, but you only allowed them to do so after the votes. This is a little ridiculous. Really, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote against this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u338	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u339	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Since we're at the Road Traffic Law Act, it's worth telling the Law and Justice government to thousands of angry drivers when they can finally register their cars without problems. The CEPiK 2.0 system was launched last Monday. Looks like he's 2.0 just because he's twice the vehicle registration time. Only the first week wasn't taken down by 20,000. cases, and the registration time extended twice: in Bialystok from 28 to 125 minutes, in Gdańsk from 20 to 45, in Katowice from 20 to 40, in Cracow from 16 to 48, etc., can be exchanged. It's the tenth working day when the system doesn't work the way it should. I want you to explain to Poles when they will finally be able to register cars efficiently, because it is the tenth working day when the system does not work properly, as it should. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u340	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question, because it is not normal, ladies and gentlemen, that from the High House, from the Sejm, there are regulations coming out that deregulate a certain area of the market, that make it easier for entrepreneurs to do the things they need to do in connection with vehicle registration, and suddenly the Senate takes us back one step at a time. I'm asking you, why? After all, this is why we are here to make life easier for citizens to make life easier for entrepreneurs. Meanwhile, this amendment - we will recommend that you reject it - significantly narrows down a group of entrepreneurs who will be able to benefit from these facilitations. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if that's true, but I hear there's a problem with the IT system. Unfortunately, this has already become a tradition in our country, but this cannot be done. Entrepreneurs cannot be punished for failing to manage the state properly. Really, all this can be better organized with the same money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u342	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Liroy-March, not associated Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. That bill was a great idea I was working on, too. This amendment in the Senate practically neutered this bill. At the moment, it's dictated by Western car companies. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I'm turning to law and justice. This bill was great until someone in the Senate tried to set it up for Western companies at all costs. This amendment destroys everything about this bill. I ask you to vote against this Senate amendment because the bill is excellent in the form it was in the Seym. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u344	Thank you. The Senate's representative isn't here. There has not been such a custom so far, but if the Seym wishes, I will invite. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 3 and 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. The absolute majority is 204. The vote was 198, against - 202, with seven abstentions. I therefore inform you that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. [[Applause]] Amendments 2, 7 and 9. The Senate is proposing editorial changes. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2, 7 and 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 394 Members voted. The absolute majority is 198. The vote was 4 against - 389, with 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 80t. 4 and to Article 4 80 out of the mouth. 2 The Senate proposes that the expression "confessions" be replaced by "contestments." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. Against 419 votes, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 80v paragraph. 1 and 3 Senate proposes editorial changes. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. Against the vote of 417, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 4 amending act containing amendments to the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund Guarantee and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances Senate in Art. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (8) proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 9 to 11. The Senate reported it to the article. The 5th Amendment Act. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. in the mouth. 6 add point 6 extending the list referred to in that provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The absolute majority is 209. The vote was 82, against - 313, with 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Senate proposes to reduce the time limit for transmission of the documents referred to in those provisions to 14 days. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 413 voted against, in favour - 1, abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. The 7th Law amending the Senate proposes that the information referred to in this provision should also be published in the Official Journal of the Minister for Digitalization. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. No one voted against - 415, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. No more votes for today. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 17 hours 14 min 25]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 37 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft Power Market Act (Prints No 1722 and 2017). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u345	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft power market law from print no. 1722. The Commission for Energy and Treasury dealt with this bill twice: on 26 October 2017 and on 21 November 2017. On 26 October, a subcommittee was set up, which worked this draft law in detail. As you can remember from the first reading, the need for a law arises, among others. from the state of Polish electricity, threatening us blackouts. The subcommittee was set up on 26 October and held three meetings: 26 October, 27 October and 15 November. The first meeting presented the draft law and its solutions. At its second meeting, on 27 October, a representative of the Ministry of Energy discussed proposals for amendments to the draft law on the power market, which were subject to agreements in the Council of Ministers, and after their adoption will be presented as government amendments. The amendments presented were based on the arrangements with the European Commission on the power mechanism in the pre-notice process. Talks with the European Commission have been focused around key areas such as the auction model providing equal and competitive rules for all participants, foreign capacity participation, technological neutrality and the preference for low-carbon power. The five main blocks of change were therefore proposed. The first block is a model of auction - the liquidation of the so-called. auction baskets for new, upgraded and existing power market units. All auction participants will compete in the same auction. The auction will be completed with one settlement price. The only distinguishing elements will be the status of the pricer, the pricer and the length of the power contract. Different lengths of the Capacity Agreement are currently proposed, depending on the level of investment. The second block is a more favourable solution for DSR units: allowing the conclusion of five-year power contracts while meeting the same level CAPEX as for modernised units, easier certification process, the possibility of coming into certification with the planned DSR unit only or the elimination of discriminatory factors of DSRs when clearing the performance of the power obligation to conventional manufacturers. The third block is the opening of an auction for cross-border capacity: allowing the share of capacity located in the electricity systems of the Member States of the European Union connected directly with the Polish system by allowing foreign power market units to participate in capacity auctions. Fourth - preference for low-carbon capacity for entities that will be entitled to apply for a long-term contract, 15 or 5 years. If the relevant conditions are met, the contract will be extended by 2 years. There are also legislative changes: more precise, resulting and editorial, as well as transitional and adaptation provisions. The introduction of these substantive changes entails the need to adapt many other provisions and appeals due to the dynamics of the legislative process. The subcommittee meeting on 15 November also discussed proposals, the subject of amendments that were also discussed at the Energy and Treasury Commission meeting yesterday. There has been information that it is still necessary to discuss this and to take a position by the Ministry of Energy. Therefore, it cannot be excluded that the amendments to the Act will still be tabled during this reading. On behalf of the committee, I recommend that the bill be adopted together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u346	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Our meetings are attended by children and young people from the Association of Friends of Children from Legnica and Krzywa. Welcome. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u347	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft power market law, 1722 and 2017. The power market, which is called the two-track market, is a mechanism whereby energy generators are rewarded not only for their energy supply but also for their willingness to supply it. In such a model, the goods are not only energy itself, but also the availability of power plants in terms of power generation. With regard to the European Union's climate policy - ETS emissions trading system, restrictive requirements for the admissibility of emissions, it is about the BAT conclusion or the risks arising from the so-called proposals. the winter package in the coming years - Poland will be forced to shut down further developed and increasingly less efficient power plants. In order to recreate the capacity that will be lacking in the national electricity system, new power plants need to be built, ensuring the adequacy of energy, whose level of consumption is increasing with the economic and industrial development of Poland. The current shape of the energy market based on a single commodity market model does not provide sufficient investment resources and impulses in the power generation sector in Poland. In view of the instability of renewable energy generation, which is dependent on weather conditions, and the difficulty of building new steering capacity, i.e. conventional generation, the security of energy supply to final customers is at risk. One of the main tasks of the power market will be to encourage new investments and modernise existing generation capacity and to make Poland independent of imports of electricity from abroad. These actions, by protecting Poland from the threat of power shortages in the future and ensuring the energy security of the country, make the introduction of the power market a priority now. According to data from the Ministry of Energy, the power market should create conditions for the construction of generation sources in the energy industry with a total capacity of at least 12 to 14 GW, which will provide an adequate amount of energy in the system. Ladies and gentlemen! A subcommittee was set up in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury to consider the draft power market law, which presented a report following a thorough analysis of all the amendments tabled by parliamentary clubs. Nevertheless, in order to further clarify all issues relating to the power market, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is proposing a package of 16 amendments which it sends to the Marshal. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the committee's report presented today and recommends that the draft law be referred to the committee in order to consider the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u348	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u349	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the club's position on the Government's draft power market law, Parliamentary Printing No. 1722. Assumptions of the Polish Society of Transmission and Distribution of Electricity are the maintenance of quality, security of energy supply at the lowest possible price of the product. Distribution system operators and transmission system operators await the adoption of the Power Market Act. The future of the Polish electricity and energy network depends on the provisions of this law. PLN 7.1 billion in 2016 spent on investments by energy companies and transmission network operators. In order to meet the expectations of a customer of this type, one must meet the expectations of electricity supply. The sectors that make the most of electricity and where demand continues to grow are heavy industries, processing and transport. The time runs out when the old installations could be upgraded forever. New generation capacity needs to be built. The figures do not lie, let's look at electricity consumption in Poland. According to the national system operator data, from January to April this year. energy consumption was 57 168 GWh in production at the same time 57 314 GWh. The demand for electricity compared to the same period of 2016 increased by 4.58%. Funds are needed for joint investment initiatives of energy companies with public-private partners, e.g. Local authorities, and most importantly, should also take into account the specificities of the Polish energy market and the production of classical, conventional electricity. Distribution system operators are working on models of local smart grids. They create smart city licenses, they build smart grid systems. I would like to mention information about the results of the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit, the publication of 2014. .Providing capacity in conventional electricity. And here I will quote: Given the deadlines for the implementation of new generation sources, regardless of the option of building new capacities, it will be necessary for transmission system operators to apply basic measures to improve the balance sheet in order to maintain the excess capacity at the required level. Notwithstanding the option and the application of the basic remedies, there will be periods during which current remedies need to be used to improve the balance sheet. The NIK also pointed out the practice of the necessary TSOs, i.e. feeding on the current measure to improve the capacity balance based on contracts with neighbouring electricity system operators. Under the leadership of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, the Ministry of Economy did not prepare information on the implementation of energy policy in 2013 together with proposals on how to carry out tasks. This means that practically then governments ignored the Energy Law Act and did not prepare the state's energy policy, and this is crucial for the security of the state, also for the sovereignty of our country. At the meeting of the subcommittee, in which I was also privileged to participate, there was a presentation, with the participation of the Minister of Energy, of amendments to the Act. Changes force the procedure of notification of the law here. The law introduces the possibility to adopt the frontier power of electricity. Such readiness for adoption in 2018 is expected to be of a value of 2 GWh. It's one of the most important amendments. All amendments to the Act require notification to the European Commission. The auction model has changed, open to foreign power. Representatives of the Ministry of Energy recalled that low-carbon energy sources are preferred in the European Union. Here it is assumed that auction baskets for new and modernized production units will be removed. The auction will be completed with one price. The length of power contracts will depend on investment expenditure, and so will be 1 year, 5 years, 15 years. There were a few new definitions. In general, Kukiz15 supports the pursuit of the stability and energy security of our country. Except one thing: I make two amendments on behalf of the Kukiz club. They relate to the imposition of an information obligation on the transmission system operator and the distribution system operator, who are not capacity payers, and manufacturers connected to the distribution network. The obligation will apply to the transmission of information which will allow the calculation of the capacity charge. These are the two amendments I make to the marshal's hands. There's another thing that's very important. We will also need to look at quality charges and overall burdens for manufacturers, that is to say for [[♪ The bell ♪]] energy-intensive companies. But this is already in relation to the regulation, in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u350	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u351	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will make a statement on this bill, maintaining the application from the first reading. Dear Minister, It will probably not be a special occasion for you to remind some Members, my previous speaker, that the energy policy of our country was first prepared in 2002 by a government in which neither representatives of the PiS nor representatives of the Platform participated. It was subsequently amended and verified several times. The government of PSL and the Civic Platform has prepared this policy by 2030 with the assumption that it will be subsequently updated. The policy paper contains four annexes, including the energy balance and the scope of the laws to be implemented, with a timetable for their implementation. This document is, was presented to the Minister for inspection and was submitted to him at the end of our term of office. We didn't have the habit of dropping off a hot potato to someone who could take over this policy in a minute. That's why our opinion is stable, it goes out to the audience and doesn't change. I wouldn't want there to be a direct hit on the minister or anybody else, because this roller's spinning, he's gaining momentum, no one's gonna stop him. This roller, also energy roller, has been aimed at the European Union's tracks, is part of the law that we have already adopted as our right by 2020. And why are we criticizing this bill and the moment of implementation? Because whoever knows the details knows that he must be accepted for a particular purpose. Why, without following our lead, do we not make public the discussion, discuss with specific recipients, those who do not decide, who do not yet have the possibility to influence where they get energy and at what price? I'm not talking about a competitive market where the recipient can change the supplier, but about the producer. Introducing e.g. The Renewable Energy Act led to a final dialogue, which was a public hearing. This has lengthened our process, but we wanted the key laws to be approved by the audience, every family. Now, if we look at what the Minister, what the government is actually serving us, it is nothing more than preserving coal production, and it is specifically in this second five-year auction package, namely the modernisation of coal power plants, which will make Polish energy uncompetitive in Europe and in the world even in the near future. If we have specialists who say: without restructuring the mining industry, without restructuring the energy tone of coal will cost 1 000. zł - I'm talking about energy coal, not the one that is now on deposits to buy - is how will Polish energy meet the requirements of competitiveness? We simply told the Minister at first reading that if we are to stabilise energy and if we are all to work in this area, we should start with an energy policy, the one agreed and updated for many years, so that we can now hear what this balance is going to be like, the so-called one. The energy mix, which will be the role, in percentage terms, of coal. We hear there's going to be a nuclear power plant in a minute, because the ministers are telling us, and now we're saying that the recipe for everything is the power market. After all, the power market, all professionals know this well, is to stabilise, say, Polish energy. And if we're talking about manufacturing support, the world has developed mechanisms, so-called. differential contracts that finance this on an ongoing basis depending on the manufacturing economy. We will face the problem of sources of financing for nuclear energy, the problem of competition in foreign markets, and with this competition we will lose if we adopt this law now. The platform will sustain these requests, which will be made here, for rejection [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project at second reading. [[Applause]] [[Third.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u352	Thank you. The voice of Mrs Monica Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When discussing this draft law, we need to ask ourselves basic questions: firstly, how much the power market is going to cost, secondly, what strategic objective it is going to achieve, and, thirdly, how it will contribute to the transformation of the current system. According to the impact assessment concerning the original draft law by 2027, this project was expected to cost almost PLN 27 billion, but during the project process numerous amendments were made, which increase the financial burden on the recipients. Hence the questions: What will be the real cost of implementing this bill? How much did the costs increase compared to the original project? At the last meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, the experts, referring to the energy-intensive sector, indicated that the cost of the mechanism could be twice as high. Does this mean that small and medium-sized enterprises will pay even more? Will it be 20, 30 billion PLN more? How will this burden affect the SME sector as a whole? How much are the households gonna pay? Where can I get a look at the real impact assessment? What is the strategic objective of this draft law? The power market is to be part of the state's energy strategy, only that you have not presented this strategy to us. We don't even know what the energy mix is going to look like by 2030. We do not know what the power market is going to look like, what the energy market in Poland is going to look like after the introduction of the power market, whether it is a coal-based market, gas-based market, nuclear power, renewable market, hopefully so, but you are creating a tool, just that you do not know what purpose you want to achieve with this tool. Third question. How is this power market supposed to contribute to transformation? Here all the experts and Members of the opposition say that this bill will concrete the current situation for decades, will cost energy consumers, but will not force them to look for innovative, modern solutions that will allow for a real improvement in the country's energy security. We're probably going to have a wave of investment, but it's going to be an investment that saves nuclear energy. The power market can be seen as the last resort for energy. This is such a short-lived escape to the front of a weak player who mobilizes his forces to run a few hundred meters, but then he falls. Only that this player is sponsored by all of us, Poles. According to the report by WiseEurope, almost PLN 230 billion have been paid by Poles to mining since 1990. This law imposes further charges. Interestingly, we import more and more coal. According to experts, by 2050 this will be between 45 and 70% So we're gonna be adding to the coal that we're importing from abroad. What is more, will this draft law solve the problem of power shortages during the summer period? Wouldn't it be better to install renewable energy sources? So let's talk about goals, not just tools, not just measures, because energy security, of course, yes, but related to modern energy, and this energy that is based only on coal, this safe and modern energy is not. The power market requires a comprehensive approach, which also takes into account the shape of the energy market in the European Union, the winter package, BAT conclusions and even Brexit. So this is a power market that looks at the energy market without a plan, without a strategy, without any agreement on the future of RES, nuclear power, gas, electromobility, energy savings, innovation. It's irresponsible and it's very shortsighted. If we go this way, there will be no transformation in Poland. Of course, for a few, several years you may be putting the problem on the table, but we will pay double for it: now, paying for the power market, and in the future, paying for the real transformation of the sector. That is why we are requesting that this project be rejected at second reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u354	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u355	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Energy security is very important and important for citizens, but above all also for the national economy, because the competitiveness of the economy and its development depend on it. Permanent security, no interruptions in energy security - all of this is very important. There must be an accurate vision of what is happening with Polish energy, what growth will be taking place, because every year we need more eclectic energy, because the economy is developing, and we need to anticipate it. However, we must also predict from which sources this energy will come, which will be competitive, which will be the cheapest. We've been focused for two years, you've focused on such a strong defense of our coal. If anyone said anything wrong with coal, he was already an enemy. No, it's not about being the enemy, it's about really looking at the situation of carbon perspective, the perspective of carbon energy, what other possibilities are, how it can be spread out temporarily. We have lost two years, with renewable energy we have gone back so far that we fear to speak, because we really will not be able to make up for it and there will be consequences for our economy, because those manufacturers who planned to install in Poland, whether it is our own, domestic or even foreign, have withdrawn, while today we are looking for a rape solution that is supposed to run forward, as a colleague here spoke before me, and show the Union that we are still such a coal power, we have everything worked out, so the Sejm adopts a power bill, we have everything worked out and nothing is worked out. An example of this bill. After 2 years, you report it, as if it's been processed for quite a long time, agreed, but there are still 16 very important amendments. We haven't seen these corrections. The energy-intensive industry has raised reservations, and it is powerful that practically in this formula this law is not acceptable, because it is a tragedy for the energy-intensive industry if we introduce it. These are important and important things. Next: How much will it cost? The question was, except for all of this, they're gonna pay the final recipients, and they're gonna pay the final recipients. Citizens will pay for this. How many times have we raised energy prices in the last two years? Various additions, various additions are preparing at the moment, maybe not yet this year, but the perspective is very, very sad. If this is to continue to support the mining industry, which must be respected, responsible dialogue with the miners must also be conducted, it is not possible to bend at any request because it is a strong social group. Retirement doesn't matter what retirees do, they don't organize, they don't come to Warsaw. In the case of miners, we don't wonder, we give money, we take Social Security last week, and we give it to the miners. I'm already overlooking whether it's right or wrong, but it shows the direction of action, it shows the direction of action. Now our energy addiction. We say energy independence all the time. We are betting on coal energy, although it is already so soft, it is no longer so hard, here something is beginning to dawn, while coal, such energy, good, is beginning to run out. It's getting more expensive, we bring it back. How? From Russia, from Putin we bring. We complain all the time about our energy dependence on Russia, and we bring back coal. Have we predicted how much more of this coal will have to be brought in? What will be the world's economic climate for coal? It's very fluid, it's variable, and you have to be a good strategy to predict it. Therefore, the Polish People's Party cannot support such a law. Although we know what energy security means, we will not support it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause there's no perspective or vision in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u356	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, We get a tool to help us realize something, but we do not know exactly what this tool is supposed to help us implement in the energy programme, the energy security programme of the Polish state. Today we do not know the energy security programme, we do not even know the program for coal mining, which we have been discussing for several months. Many times you talk about the fact that Poland's energy security will be built on coal. Minister, I'd like to know how much coal we're going to need to secure those coal blocks that we want to build out of these resources or modernise. I understand that the Ministry of Energy has been analysing which energy companies of the State Treasury, which power plants can use the funds they will want to use to secure this generation capacity, in a situation where we need this power. Minister! When will we have Poland's energy security programme when we see this energy mix and when will we have a balanced amount of coal that will be needed to achieve the goal that you are setting yourself? We in Silesia would very much like to know [[♪ The bell ♪]] to what extent and to what percentage the energy mix will be built on coal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u358	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u359	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has already been 2 weeks since the extraordinary meeting of the Energy and Treasury Commission on PAK and Osciusłow. It was supposed to be a decision, and it's still not a decision. Now in the context of the power market. If there is no positive decision for PAK, then if PAK wants to start in power auctions, will it be able to benefit from the power market if it does not have a fuel perspective, and so will not have a modernization perspective. However, the capacity market is linked to the modernisation perspective and not only to the prospect of overeating the second market on the two-stock market to consume and relieve itself of the cost. Hence the question: Is the minister still determined to have PAK on the market? If the Minister is determined and will lead to a positive decision, will the PAK, which will apply for a capacity market for auctions, be able to benefit from this market in terms of, first, modernisation, second, the operation of cost aid for itself? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u360	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u361	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The Act is dedicated to commercial installations producing energy for sale, virtually not for own use. Here there is a real concern that power suppliers will be generators who, at an underpriced price, won the power auction. Here, the justification is obvious. The advantaged companies may win auctions, after which the prize for maintaining the readiness to supply energy and the proceeds of the capacity levy will issue a high bill to final customers as not threatened by competition. Such a fear would have to be considered. Is there a list of entities for which investment support is being prepared? Which companies are on it? What are the projects to be carried out in connection with the Capacity Market Act? Here we would have to refer to historical announcements, such as the French company, which recently gave its assets to the Polish company of the State Treasury, which declared 1800 million PLN for investment, for example in one of the power plants and increase in power, investment in the 900-megawatt block. It didn't work out. Here was the question of why there was a shortage of coal. Here we would have to look at the policy of the PSL activists, why the operating fronts were reduced. Now the question is: What will be the investments so that the power market will not charge too much? [[♪ The bell ♪]] a citizen at the expense of the final energy price? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u362	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It follows from the justification of the Act that the cost of the capacity market for individual customers will be PLN 1030 million. Perhaps someone listening to us will want to know how it will cost one household a year and how much it will cost up to 1 kWh. I think that would be useful information for the citizen if the Minister were kind enough to give it at this point. At the same time, I have a question, quite detailed. You assume that these revenues, both from households and from entrepreneurs, which are to be more than 2 times larger, are fluctuating, plus minus 10%, for example. for households between 1030 million... And in the next third year, 2013, 910 million. What is the result of these fluctuations, and why in general do we have constans in the arrangement given here for 7 years, as if not assuming an increase in electricity consumption, both in households and in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u364	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Energy, Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! With regard to today's discussion, I would like to stress that there is a clear need for energy policy in the state in this area. The State, both during previous governments of the Civic Platform and PSL, had to secure electricity for individual consumers and for industry, depending on what development forecasts are, how much will be coming. And we really are facing a big dilemma about the future, because this 2.6 increase in electricity consumption in 2016 was far beyond forecast. For the first quarter of this year, this is estimated at the moment, this is an incomplete number, this is about 2% , and it can be predicted that in two years' time, this figure will not be much different from that of 2015, if it is said that the increase of these two years will be approximately 5% in total. higher than in 2015 So that's, like, 1/20 of our power supply in terms of generation capacity, which means that these needs are moving forward, very seriously. This is a question of the kind that we need to take into account the development of renewable energy, the assumptions and agreement with the European Commission, the direction in which and in what time we are going to implement these requirements. We're trying to do this. If you look at it from such a point of view, the 2013 report already mentions the need to build a power market. This report was drawn up by ministers. You have to build about 7,000. MW of new power, this was the prediction at the time. This was repeated in the 2015 report. So when it comes to what you guys have pointed out in your reports, what you really need to do to make the economy... turns out that even more, we're just doing what needs to be done. Objection to the power market. If, on the one hand, you point out in your documents that without this, our economy cannot cope with the fact that we will not be able to tighten the power plant economically if they wait until they stop giving up first - in line with the decision of the European Commission, which we have accepted, that renewable energy has priority, so conventional energy waits and enters at a time when the wind or the sun is weakening behind the clouds - then... ♪ And right now ♪ It's a known thing that they're not gonna be able to make them viable. Already then, in 2013 and 2015 it was visible after what was happening on the market that this power market was needed. The question is why nothing has been done in this matter - I will leave this question open - because then it would be easier for the European Commission to get this market of power than today, when the mood, so to speak, is what it is. So if you look at it from this point of view, it's weird to object because if you continue to arrive - and you continue to arrive, and you have to arrive - renewable energy sources, then you just have power plants waiting, and you have to get money for waiting. Otherwise, the 7,000. MW power... I can't imagine how, without the prospect of building a power market, the construction of these power plants could have started. At that time it was known that without the power market they would be ineffective, would bring losses. Looking at it, it's just how I feel about it. On the other hand, as regards what Mr Kasprzak said the power market should support mining, there is nothing like that. Here to mining, to income or losses of mining power market is nothing. He simply assures us that this energy that can replace renewable energy, when needed... Both gas and coal power plants and power plants are involved. One to the other has nothing to do with it. The issue of the overall price, still projected in terms of annual costs. They'll settle at the auction. We only estimate that it will be PLN 3.5 billion, PLN 4 billion, depending on how it will look. It's all just prognosis. And the other thing. I would like to say that, in fact, when it comes to exports - let's remember, everyone knows - in Poland we supply heavy coal, i.e. this coal, which goes to simple fuel consumption. The demand is covered by about 50% from our coal resources and 50% from imports, while we import from different sides. [[And where do we supply heat and power from?]] Please? [[Where do we supply heat and power?]] As far as the supply of electricity is concerned, this is a normal market. We have our coal production, we have these several million tonnes of imports, which is roughly similar to 2015. In 2016 there was no special difference. This year there was indeed a gap resulting from restructuring operations, but this gap also led to the fact that, from an economic point of view, coal costs as much as it should cost, and mining is starting to function normally. On the other hand, the restructuring shows that there will be no shortage of coal. We're talking about prospects. On the other hand, the prospects are that of my discussions in the European Commission summarizing the recent negotiations that I will be holding with Commissioner Vestager and Commissioner Canete at the beginning of December, that we declare that we will not increase the consumption of coal for energy purposes and negotiate the agreement of the European Commission that this potential that we have will be maintained after 2023. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yeah, after 2030. Mining has prospects and can look forward with confidence when it comes to referring to the current potential of mining. Of course, mining needs to be ensured and mines must be even more profitable than they are today to meet investment requirements. The investment requirements for this year and next year are secured by investment, because the money from the investment, I would like to point out, are not aimed at the current operation, are secured and are directed only at investment. Therefore, the size of the investment planned this year will be slightly smaller, but not because there is no money, because there is money in the accounts of the Polish Mining Group, while this money, as I said, is from the recapitalisation and is therefore intended for investments. We have here a problem of this kind, that in recent years the investment potential in mining has collapsed. Very low investments, a drop in the number of mining walls by more than 30% caused that many companies that worked to prepare mining fronts have retrained, turned to other markets, and in this area there is a problem. At the moment, in a large part of the preparatory investment on the fronts, especially in the preparation of mining walls, is carried out by own forces. As regards consumption, I would like to say that this is about 26 million tons of coal in power plants and about 10 million tons of coal in power plants. On the other hand, when it comes to the timing of the auction, it is December 2018. Until then, companies, having already had a bill, can make a summary, see what auctions they can start with and what they can do. And here it is specified that those who will have, when starting to auction, an investment commitment greater than PLN 0.5 billion may take place for a five-year auction and those who will have an investment commitment above PLN 3.5 billion - for a 15-year auction. As far as the auction dates are concerned, the bill has exactly written this down. These are the dates of 5 December and 21 December 2018. Three auctions are scheduled in December 2018. The PAK case. The PAK case is settled. I believe that the PAK is needed in our market, so I tried quite hard to support efforts to launch a new Occlusive deposit, which enables the operation of brown coal power plants that PAK has in the coming years, because under the future functioning of the PAK we are slowly decompose our investment programme, which covers this field. For us, too, from the point of view of energy needs, the point is that the PAK should be functioning, and I think I have this idea that this should happen. [[When, Minister, when?]] Decisions are made when it comes to environmental research that is currently underway. As for the decisions to be made, I am unable to answer. I'm trying to make it as quick as possible, and I'm trying to cheer up my colleagues, but decisions are in the hands of the community department. [[Without this discovery there is no power market for PAK.]] I'm saying I'm trying to support you, but I can't answer for you for the Minister of the Environment. I'm not gonna answer for the Minister of Environment. Mr Sitarski. Which companies will enter the power market? Those that decide and meet the conditions of the power market. We assume there should be cover. These are, as I say, annual, five-year and 15-year contracts. What are the costs when it comes to households? Mr Nowak. I have already answered this question, speaking of the PAK case, which I could have answered. Mr Sitarski. Which companies are coming in? Which they'll decide. Mr Wilczyński - a burden on the household. Indeed, it will all depend on who will offer how and how much in the auctions. On the other hand, we estimate that about 2... In the case of the largest group, these poorest households will be about PLN 1.7 per month to the bill. For the richest households, very rich rural production farms, etc. It's gonna be about 9 zlotys a month. It's an estimate. Thank you very much. I am asking for support for the power market because, as you can see from the beginning of my speech, everyone has an interest in the power market being, and our economy needs it too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u366	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Zubowski is the rapporteur of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u367	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Just a few things I'd like to draw attention to. Maybe it didn't sound loud enough. So, first of all, the power market also operates in other European countries. It has been pointed out that amendments will be tabled and that these amendments, which were signalled at the committee meeting, have actually appeared. It's a matter of public consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been known since last year that this power market project will be processed. That is not enough, after all, he twice was off the agenda and absolutely anyone who had only a little good will and wanted to make any comments and amendments could have done so. After all, the public consultation was in December 2016. The committee meeting, the subcommittee meeting - there's a transcript, there's a recording where it's said that if anyone has any comments, they can still submit them to the committee secretariat. I guess for a year absolutely anyone who had any interest in it and wanted to pay attention to certain things could have just done it. Why we meet, among others. Today, why are there amendments? She was, for example. attention paid by the Energy Regulatory Office and we will also work on this. So the allegation that there has been no consultation is absolutely missed. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. If you would like to extend this, remember that according to the data we have in 2020 - this is the term, the pessimistic option - we will not have enough power on the market. There's going to be power outages. In an optimistic variant, it's 2022. What else do you want to wait for? Second thing, ladies and gentlemen. As far as the cost to the recipient is concerned, this was also given. From less than 2 PLN to less than 7 PLN for these most energy-intensive households. The Minister drew attention here to rural farms, because in fact, there the power consumption due to different types of equipment may be a little larger. If we are talking about the costs associated with the introduction of the power market, let us also talk about the other side. It is said, yes, that it is several billion a year, but the data of the Polish Electricity Committee... Aren't we gonna put in a power market? The cost of PLN 10 billion, and so lightly counting. Some say that this cost will be much higher because we won't have enough electricity, that's all. Ladies and gentlemen, many of the questions that have emerged today, in my opinion, are due to the fact that you are taking the floor in the plenary room, but you are not at committee or subcommittee meetings. After all, we discussed it there, point by point, article by article. If any of you were at the subcommittee meeting, you'd want to take the floor... It's all been discussed. And since you weren't at the subcommittee meeting, it's hard to blame. [[Don't fry yourself. Take it easy.]] One more thing... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The subcommittee did, but there were no representatives of some clubs at the subcommittee meeting. You can check the attendance list, you can check the recording. Ladies and gentlemen, another thing. It's about the shape of our energy, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not said that if someone has a windmill, if someone has any other source of so-called. Green energy, it can't take part in the auction. He can take part in the auction, he just has to want to. You should have read the reasons for the bill. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the complaint from the representative of the Civic Platform that we do not have a coal programme. Ladies and gentlemen, look how much good we could do in Silesia in two years. [[For PLN 15 billion.]] I recommend to you the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber on what happened in your day. I'll be merciful, I won't go on about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u368	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Czerwiński with a corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u369	Dear Marshal, thank you very much. Minister! You didn't speak of me personally, by name, but you referred to ministers who didn't do something. I wanted to answer your doubts because perhaps the Minister didn't understand me well. I want to make it clear that the power market is the right solution for the situations in question. Why didn't we bring it in? Because as far as energy policy is concerned, we have recognised that the power market, which is financially binding on every recipient, including individual, is a last resort. Our energy policy had to be prepared earlier, with this so-called one. a mix of energy, specifically introducing a law that we worked together on, goes on, for example. o smart grid. She can save energy consumption by 10%. You have two and a half thousand in our market. Free megawatts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're talking about the DSR bill, we're talking about RES, and we're talking about energy storage. That's the only reason why we didn't put in place a power market law that what I said was a priority. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u370	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report of the Chief Labour Inspector on the Activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016 (print No 1703) together with the position of the Labour Protection Council and the position of the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social and Family Policy (print No 1918). I would like to ask the Chief Labour Inspector Wiesław Łyszczek to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u371	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to submit a report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016. The activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016 were carried out in accordance with a programme which was approved by the Labour Protection Board and the Sejm Commission for State Control. The planned tasks have been fully completed. 2016 was marked by changes in order to improve the functioning of the office, and was also a time of careful monitoring and supervision to eliminate undesirable developments in the labour market. It's impossible not to mention my predecessor's sleep at this point. Romana Giedrojcia, Chief Labour Inspector, who died suddenly less than three months ago. Today, he should stand before the High House to bear witness to his enormous commitment to improving the rule of law in our country's labour relations, to improving and improving the efficiency of the office and to improving the financial situation of employees of the State Labour Inspection, who for the first time, after 6 years of freezing their salary, received a salary increase. It is an honor for me to continue his work, and to present today the results of the work of the State Labour Inspection under the guidance of the deceased. Romana Giedrojcia. My predecessor introduced a strategy for the first audit, which has already entered into the State Labour Inspection programme. Its main assumptions are to apply the principle that the first control in small companies is carried out in the form of a comprehensive audit and instruction, in principle without sanctions. By the end of last year, the labour inspectors carried out more than 10,000. such checks. As a result, only in one tenth of the first time checked, the company was forced to impose criminal sanctions because of gross infringements of the law. I would also like to stress that in 2016 bureaucratic barriers to the work of inspectors have been significantly reduced in recent years. My predecessor is asleep. Roman Giedrojć considered, and I fully share his view that the labour inspector should not spend time on laptop crawling, his job is to control and contact people in the field. People who need help and support from labour inspectors. The development of this idea is the launch at the Chief Labour Inspector in Warsaw of the National Labour Inspection Advisory Centre. The Centre provides advice on legal protection of work, the legality of employment, posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services and health and safety at work. Legal assistance can also be obtained here by foreigners taking up work in Poland, including persons enjoying the rights granted to them under the principle of free movement of workers. In total, last year the National Labour Inspection bodies across the country provided nearly 1 million free advice. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The control activities carried out last year by labour inspectors clearly show that there is a need for further intensive monitoring and oversight activities and for further development of preventive measures. This assessment is based on the results and analysis of more than 82 000. control at nearly 68 thousand. employers and entrepreneurs. Our inspections concerned all areas within the statutory competence of the State Labour Inspection, and with their effects and problems arising from the infringements found, I will allow the High House to be briefed. The activities of labour inspectors to verify the correct application of civil law agreements have shown a significant extent of irregularities. During the planned inspections in the construction sector, labour inspectors analysed almost 4 000. civil law agreements. More than 1/3 of them had characteristics characteristic of employment contracts, so it was concluded bypassing the law. Today, the most effective means of eliminating infringements in this area are the instructions and speeches issued by labour inspectors. Thanks to this, the employment contract received almost 9 thousand last year. persons who have worked on the basis of a civil law contract or without any agreement. However, these are only postulate measures with which employers and entrepreneurs can agree or not. If they don't agree, there's still court proceedings that usually go on for years. Labour inspectors referred 151 actions to the labour courts to determine the existence of an employment relationship in favour of 239 persons. With regard to 51 persons, including in one case only after the appeal, the courts issued judgments determining the existence of an employment relationship, taking into account the actions under appeal. Such a situation leads to the launch of a debate by the State Labour Inspection on the equipment of labour inspectors with the power to issue administrative decisions effectively transforming civil law agreements into employment contracts. Following last year's revision of the rules on fixed-term contracts, labour inspectors have checked how the new rules work. They audited 735 entities that have contracted over 14,000 employees. fixed-term contracts and 1700 trial contracts. Over $1,000. they were fixed-term contracts in cases where the employer indicated objective reasons on his side. The checks did not show significant irregularities in the employment of workers on the basis of more than three fixed-term contracts. Inspectors have revealed only 13 such cases in eight entities. There has been a marked decrease in the percentage of contracts concluded over a period of more than 5 years in the total number of fixed-term contracts. More contracts have been concluded for a period of between 33 months and 5 years. Labour inspectors have checked how the working time rules are complied with and pay wages for work. Thus, in the case of working time, the infringement most often concerned unreliable records of working time. In practice, this does not allow real remuneration for work and other employee benefits to be established. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that, in our view, the rules on how to keep records of working time are clearly not sufficient. They do not create an obligation to indicate the time of start and end of work, which makes it difficult and often makes it impossible to verify whether the worker has been granted the right to 11 hours of daily rest or 35 hours of weekly rest, and whether the worker has not provided work twice in the same working day. Last year's checks showed that many employers still do not pay or pay their wages or other charges due on the employment relationship in due time. In 2016, they were not paid out to one in ten employees under control and were not received by 12% on time. employees. Labour inspectors spent over 6,000. wage decisions. As a result of the implementation of the legal measures applied, we executed more than PLN 184 million of outstanding debt in favour of 102 thousand. employees. The social weight of the problem and the well-being of the worker therefore justify further action against dishonest employers who break one of the fundamental rights for each worker: the right to pay for the work they have done. As part of the implementation of the National Strategy for the control of driving and stopping time rules, mandatory breaks and rest periods of drivers for the years 2015-2016, labour inspectors controlled around 1400 drivers and more than 210 000. days of their work. Most often, there was a lack of guarantee of rest and employment of the driver over 10 hours in a given day when the work was carried out at night. The health and safety regulations are a particularly important control area for each labour inspector. Thus, last year the deficiencies were found, among others. in underground mining plants, mining companies for individual mines, forest service plants and production facilities which have not been controlled by labour inspection in the last 5 years. The checks were carried out by employers operating sheltered and active employment facilities and employers employing disabled people, persons with disabilities in the open labour market. The checks showed, among other things, that employers used more often the funds obtained from the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities to purchase general equipment for companies than to adapt workplaces to the needs of people with disabilities requiring special equipment or removing architectural barriers. Labour inspectors have checked over 3,200 buildings. Despite the decisions taken, including immediate cessation of work, and the fines imposed in some cases, the results achieved in the field of health and safety have unfortunately proved to be unsustainable, as further checks confirmed. In such situations, labour inspectors sent applications to the Social Security Office for an increase of 100% in the accident premium for these companies. for the next year's contribution. Another form of impact in order to increase the safety of construction work was short checks aimed at eliminating direct risks to workers' life and health, repeated repeatedly until the state of acceptable protection for workers was reached. During the reporting year, labour inspectors examined the circumstances and causes of more than 2200 accidents at work. The most fatal accidents have been reported in the construction sector, industry, transport and storage, agriculture and forestry, mining and trade. Insufficient preparation for safe work, inadequate instructions from superiors and lack of supervision of employees are the reasons for most accidents examined by inspectors at work. Overall, in 2016 labour inspectors eliminated the immediate health and life threats of over 70,000 people. employees and other persons providing work. Experience in recent years has shown that the number of accidents, including fatal accidents, related to the work of persons not subject to compulsory accident insurance is increasing. Last year, 26 people were killed in such events, mostly in construction. I believe that there is an urgent need for legislative action to cover the obligation to report to labour inspections all fatal, serious and collective accidents relating to work by the parties to whom work is provided, regardless of their legal basis. The absence of such an obligation limits the ability of labour inspections to effectively eliminate the risks at the places where accidents took place and to ensure the necessary legal protection for victims or their families. The possibility of covering persons employed under a work contract should be considered, as this will give them the right to benefits in the event of an accident. The legal status of employment is a distinct and very important issue of control. Labour inspectors found illegal employment in every third controlled entity last year. The irregularities concerned more than 25 thousand. persons. Foreigners employed in Poland were also included in the control. The largest group of illegally employed foreigners, over 84%, were Ukrainian citizens. A separate group of controlled entities are employment agencies providing temporary employment and placement services. Over half, 60% , the agencies audited were found to have various types of irregularities. For several years, the number of cases of illegal provision of employment agencies services has been increasing. The provision of services without the required certificate of the Marshal of the voivodship confirming the entry in the register of entities operating employment agencies was disclosed in 51 entities. Following notifications from labour inspectors, 26 entities were deleted from the employment agency register. In the reporting year more than 44 thousand were received by the National Labour Inspection Authorities. complaints containing approximately 90,000 charges. In most cases, they concerned the payment of remuneration for work, the establishment and termination of employment, working time and working conditions. More than half of the labour inspectors considered it reasonable or partially justified. Punishment is a last resort, but inevitable in a situation where an employer knowingly commits offences against the rights of an employee. Labour inspectors have put around 16 thousand. fines by way of fines of PLN 19 million - the average mandate was PLN 1200 - and they sent 3070 applications for punishment to the courts. In examining the findings of the inspectors, the courts fined a total of 5700 000. zł. The average amount of the fine imposed by the courts was PLN 2400, whereas the maximum fine that can be found for offences set out in the Labour Code is PLN 30,000. zł. In 2016, 561 reports of suspected crime were sent to the prosecutor's office. In most cases, they concerned preventing or hindering inspectors from carrying out the duties referred to in Article. 225 § 2 of the Penal Code - malicious or persistent violation of workers' rights - referred to in Article. 218 § 1a of the Criminal Code - and the failure to notify the required data or to provide false data on social security - referred to in Article. 219 Penal Code. The prosecution opened 173 proceedings, in 51 cases refused to initiate proceedings, and in 148 the prosecution discontinued the proceedings. In 74 cases, she referred the indictments to the court. In parallel with controls, various and multi-directional information-prevention projects were carried out. The first phase of the three-year campaign was implemented, including the safety of woodworking, which aims to reduce the risk of accidents in sawmills and carpentry plants. The Information and Training Packages developed by the Chief Labour Inspector were provided by owners, managers and employees of sawmills and carpentry plants. The campaign continued, too, the stress at work? Find a solution. Over 2,000. employers took part in prevention programmes of the State Labour Inspection: Work Safety Management - accident prevention, Construction. Stop the accidents!, Get the PiP Diploma addressed to micro-enterprises, and reduce occupational risks in sawmill and wood processing plants. An important area of action is the education of students and students in the field of safety and health at work. Nearly 470 schools participated in the safety culture programme, and we trained about 1400 teachers who conducted lessons for more than 54 thousand. students. Competitions also remain a permanent element of the preventive activity of the State Labour Inspection, which deserve special attention: the employer - the organizer of the safe work, learn about his rights at work, safe from the start, and organized together with the KRUS competition of the Safe Agricultural Farm. More than 27 thousand participated in preventive and promotional projects of the State Labour Inspection. people representing our social partners, including more than 2 000. representatives of industrial and non-business trade union organisations and nearly 5 000. Social labour inspectors. In total, 44 publications - brochures and leaflets - published by the State Labour Inspection in circulation of 395 thousand were published in 2016. copies. The State Labour Inspection has actively participated in pan-European activities and has cooperated with international organisations in the field of labour protection. Our inspectors met with their counterparts in the European Union, were involved in the work of working groups and administrative cooperation groups (ADCO). They participated in preventive projects, among others. under the auspices of the SLIC (Committee of Higher Labour Inspectors) and financed by the European Commission. We took part in the work of the Expert Committee on Delegation of Workers, operating at the European Commission, as well as at meetings of the International Network of Training Institutes in the field of Labour (RIIFT). A detailed description of the activities of the State Labour Inspection in the international forum is provided in the report presented. I would just like to add that Polish experience, content base, methodology of operation and results of the work of Polish inspection services are highly evaluated in Europe. For many of our foreign partners and international institutions, they set standards that should be disseminated to other Member States. Among the tangible effects of last year's control and supervision activities of the State Labour Inspection, the public deserves special attention: the elimination of direct life and health threats of over 70,000. employees and other persons providing work, obtaining written confirmation of the contracts concluded for 6 000. persons who are parties to civil law contracts and close to 3 000. persons working without any contract. 11,000. employees of various industries took advantage of outstanding vacations. As a result of the implementation of the legal measures used - orders, applications in speeches and wage decisions - labour inspectors executed outstanding wages and other benefits from the employment relationship of over PLN 184 million for 102 000. employees. We have recovered significant amounts for state funds. And so on the Labour Fund the payers paid outstanding contributions for more than 34 thousand. employees in the amount of over PLN 2 million. We enforced the obligation to keep records of working time for about 16 thousand. persons. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report presented documents the involvement of labour inspectors in ensuring basic standards of compliance with labour law, but also shows how many problems the labour market has created in recent years are still waiting to be resolved. The priority for me is to further strengthen and increase the effectiveness of the State Labour Inspection in every aspect of its functioning. However, the achievement of this objective requires not only the consequences and determination of labour inspectors in carrying out statutory tasks, but also the provision of appropriate legal instruments, adequate to today's demands and threats to the labour market. Certainly they do not help complex, sometimes mutually reinforcing legal regulations, which, even when a particular interpretation is adopted by the Office, are effectively rejected in appeal proceedings. The need for certainty and clarity of the legal standards created is an essential condition for a well performing labour inspector's tasks. Moreover, the complexity of the rules, the existing legal gaps make it possible for dishonest employers and entrepreneurs today to effectively avoid liability for irregularities in the area of employment. Last year's labour inspection activities relating to the examination of labour outsourcing also show how the lack of legal regulation weakens and even prevents the labour inspector from interacting. An important problem is the outsourcing of fake works, when the employer only formally ceases to be an employer for employees accepted by an external company. In fact, it continues to decide on the scope of the tasks and responsibilities of employees by exercising ongoing supervision of employees and by carrying out a large part of their employment obligations. The State Labour Inspection, without having the power to interfere with the content of such contracts, can only, on the basis of its own findings, signal the need for detailed review of each case by other control bodies and provide legal advice to the persons concerned. Another pressing problem of the labour market, as shown by the results of the checks, is today the possibility for various employers to employ workers on a multiple basis. In practice, this means avoiding generally applicable labour legislation, including especially working time rules. The commonly used method of employing above the applicable working time standards is also the performance of work on the basis of different types of contracts than the contract of employment. This is a clear signal for the legislator to guarantee minimum working time standards for all contractors and single-person entrepreneurs, so that the generally applicable working time standards, including in particular the provisions on continuous daily and weekly rest, also apply to workers employed by persons other than the basic employer. It should be stressed that such solutions are already applied to certain professional groups, e.g. drivers operating road transport. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again, which is also repeatedly called for by the sleeper. Roman Giedrojć, Chief Labour Inspector, that if the Labour Inspector is to effectively counter the abuse of the labour market, and this is what society expects of us, its competences and instruments of impact must be directly proportional to the diagnosed pathologies and infringements of the law. Hence our expectations, above all, in terms of simplifying the procedures for initiating control. A work inspector with official ID is a sufficient guarantee of properly carried out checks, without the need for additional legitimacy of his/her powers by means of control authority. Sometimes in the history of the office, our rapid intervention has saved people's lives and health. Moreover, this is directly due to the legal structure of administrative decisions issued by the Labour Inspector, which concern inter alia. ordering work to be stopped or directed to another job where the infringement poses a direct risk to the life or health of workers or other persons engaged in the work or activities. If labour inspections are expected today to be more effective measures to eliminate the so-called. junk contracts should be provided without delay with the labour inspector's ability to take decisions on the determination of the employment relationship at the place of non-worker employment where the employment characteristics indicate the employment relationship. Such a situation would also increase occupational safety, as those working under civil law contracts are deprived of adequate medical prevention, appropriate training in health care, personal protective equipment and workwear. At the same time, I would like to stress that the new tasks imposed on the labour inspection and the high level of social expectations involved require qualified, experienced inspectors. The complexity of the issues at the office, the function of the labour inspector as a public administration body issuing administrative decisions and the associated responsibility force the acquisition of appropriate specialists for inspection work. However, the level of remuneration offered by the Office significantly impedes the recruitment of optimal candidates, e.g. Masters of engineers or masters of law with several years of experience. Therefore, in the 2018 budget, we planned an 8% increase from the payroll fund. This increase consists primarily of increasing the average annual employment in the office from 2700,2 posts to - this is the target plan - 2836 posts. We've also included 4% in the budget. increases for inspection staff, since the last two years, when remuneration was increased after 6 years of freezing of the wage fund, have not solved the problem of recruitment of the relevant staff. This difficult situation prompts me to ask the High House to understand and support the planned 2018 National Labour Inspection budget. I would like to inform you that work is currently underway on amendments to the State Labour Inspection Act. They aim to increase the efficiency of inspections by providing labour inspectors with tools that will be more effective than currently available to combat the pathology of today's labour market. The changes are also intended to further strengthen and improve the functioning of the Office. To conclude, I would like to thank all employees of the State Labour Inspection, both labour inspectors and those supporting their work, for their efforts and commitment last year to respect labour law, the legality of employment and ensuring the safety of workers. I thank the Marshal, ladies and gentlemen for understanding the complexity and importance of our tasks and for supporting the State Labour Inspection in its efforts to ensure the rule of law in working relations. I would like to thank the Government and, above all, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Elizabeth Rafalska and Minister Stanisław Szwed, the Bureau of the Labour Protection Council, headed by Mr Janusz Śniadek and all the members of the Council. I would like to thank our social partners, employers, trade unions and social labour inspectors for their support for the State Labour Inspection in its task of enforcing labour law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u372	Thank you, Chief Inspector. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 50 hrs 15 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 34 of the agenda. I would ask the President of the Labour Protection Council of Janusz Śniadek to speak and to present the position of the Labour Protection Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Workers of Labour Inspection! My role is to present the position of the Labour Protection Council on the activities of the 2016 State Inspection. The Labour Protection Council took note of this report at its meeting on 6 June 2017. That is why I quote this date because the document was presented by the Chief Labour Inspector. Romek Giedrojć, who left in such a surprising way for all of us in the second half of August this year. During the reporting year, inspectors carried out more than 82 thousand. control in more than 68 thousand. employers and other economic operators. The actions revealed a number of irregularities and offences against the rights of workers. They also concerned the conclusion of civil law contracts in conditions characteristic of the employment relationship - pathology so called. Unfortunately, trash cans are still ongoing - and not paying or not paying wages for work and other claims on employment relationships, non-compliance with working time standards and health and safety regulations. In calculating these irregularities, I wonder how it will be next year with respect to the restriction on trade. Goddamn it, we're not gonna put that in the reports. On the basis of an analysis of the 2016 State Labour Inspection Report and the discussion at the plenary meeting of the Labour Protection Council, the Council concludes that it is justified, inter alia, to introduce an obligation to report to labour inspections all fatal, serious and collective accidents at work irrespective of the grounds for providing them. It's not like that today. Secondly, improving and simplifying the post-accident system in determining the causes and circumstances of accidents. Thirdly, granting labour inspectors the right to issue administrative decisions requiring the effective conversion of civil law contracts into employment contracts in situations where work under civil law contracts is provided under conditions specific to the employment relationship. This famous article, not the paragraph, the article. 22 Labour Code. Fourthly, the obligation to submit an authorisation to carry out checks and to give notice of its intention to carry out checks should be lifted. For this purpose, the inspector's official card should be sufficient. Here is the spirit of Mr. Palikot who introduced this duty. He might as well have put in a warrant for the police to handle a search at the fence, give him a heads-up. Fifthly, a comprehensive review of the existing law to eliminate inconsistent and archaic rules causing interpretative difficulties. Finally, sixthly, greater protection for workers under civil law agreements. The Labour Protection Board positively assesses the control and surveillance activities and preventive activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016. The activities of the State Labour Inspection during the reporting year were carried out in accordance with a programme previously adopted which was approved by the Labour Protection Board and the Sejm Committee for State Control. The Council appreciates the determination and consistency of labour inspectors in enforcing labour law. Finally, I owe my heartfelt thanks to both the management and all the employees of the Labour Protection Council, who so self- sacrificingly performed their duties, being one of the best allies of the employees in Poland. Thank you very much, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u374	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Kozanecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Chief Labour Inspector! I have the honour to present the position of the Joint Committees: the Committee on State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in relation to the report presented by the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016, print No 1703, together with the position of the Labour Protection Council on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016, sejm printing No 1918. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On 4 July 2017, the Marshal of the Sejm sent this report to the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, which adopted the report at its meeting on 12 October 2017, in print No 1703. The Commissions, after hearing the report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection for 2016, presented by the Chief Labour Inspector, stress that it is a document which provides comprehensive information on the effects of last year's control, supervisory and preventive action by the Office. At the same time, it is a source of knowledge about the state of the rule of law in labour relations and should be a starting point for drawing conclusions which are particularly important for further improving the state of the rule of law in this area. It is also an important document of social importance. An in-depth analysis of the results of the audit shows the complexity and diversity of the problems present in the labour market, which labour inspectors counter in their instruments and legal capacity. Members stress that the labour inspection is carrying out its mission effectively and that the effects of its last year's activities have had positive social effects in terms of increasing the level of labour safety and the rule of law in controlled establishments. The audit and supervisory tasks designated for 2016 have been carried out. There is no way to fail to notice the positive changes following the social expectations of the State Labour Inspection in recent years. These changes are also very visible at the level of district labour inspectors. A good example is the District Labour Inspector in Bydgoszcz, where positive changes are clearly visible. First of all, these changes are related to the fulfilment of the duties of the Inspectorate as well as staff. The report shows that the inspection has extended its cooperation with employers by laying the foundations for work, i.e. in the workplace, in direct contact with small and medium-sized enterprises. The first audit, implemented last year, collects reasonable positive reviews, including in the business community. It brings concrete results by introducing legal standards with the help of labour inspectors. Thanks to it, the first audit of companies has improved labour safety and the level of respect for workers' rights. The establishment of the National Labour Inspection Advisory Centre in the Chief Labour Inspector should also be noted with recognition. The situation on the labour market makes the State Labour Inspection must focus its activity on control and surveillance activities, supporting prevention and education. The report confirms that there are still areas in labour relations where there are numerous breaches of labour law. The major challenge for inspection was last year, and will remain, the control of the legality of employment, as the Chief Labour Inspector said. The report shall also inform the inspection activities and the impact of the employment agencies. It is worrying that in the case of more than 60% of the audited agencies and placement services there have been numerous infringements. This year has brought about changes in the employment rules for temporary workers, including new tasks for labour inspectors to eliminate irregularities found. The fact that legislation that meets today's labour market requirements can improve the situation of workers shows, for example, data on the reduction of the number of employees' employment cases under fixed-term employment contracts. A positive effect was the introduction of provisions obliging the employer to confirm working conditions and employment in writing before he was admitted to work. Moreover, many workers are still employed on the basis of civil law contracts, although they perform their duties under conditions characteristic of the employment relationship. In the event of irregularities being discovered, labour inspectors shall refer applications to employers or legal actions for the establishment of employment relationships. I believe that the introduction of provisions allowing labour inspectors in obvious situations to require the conclusion of a contract of employment instead of an order would reduce the scale of abuse and significantly increase the effectiveness of inspections. Labour inspectors shall make effective use of the powers to enforce the remuneration of their employees. According to the report, in 2016, labour inspectors also eliminated the immediate threat of life and health in more than 70,000. employees. The work inspectors have fully implemented the action programme adopted for 2016. The special interests of labour inspectors include companies providing mining services, underground mining plants, forest service plants, sheltered work facilities, occupational activities and companies employing disabled people. Numerous information-prevention programmes have been implemented aimed at employers, workers and even students. The activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016 are positive. On this occasion, I would like to thank all the labour inspectors, as well as the district labour inspectors, the chief labour inspector for his honest work, whose effects translate into effective protection of workers' rights and their safe work. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At this point, I would also like to thank the sleeper. Roman Giedrojci, whom we said goodbye to a few months ago. His commitment to reforming labour inspections has become an important impetus for changes in broadly understood control of working conditions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commissions: to State Control and Social Policy and Family Affairs after considering the report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016, together with the position of the Labour Protection Council at its meeting on 12 October 2017, request that the High Sejm adopt the report on printing No 1703. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u376	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Janusz Śniadek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u377	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by saying that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice positively assess the activity of the institution, its management and all employees in the field of civilization of labour relations and the protection of workers. I will depart in my speech from such a fairly traditional quotation of the statistics, which are also cited here, in this report. I think that this report gives a sufficiently illustrative picture of the scale of commitment and problems, unfortunately, as has already been done, perhaps to an insufficient degree of remuneration. Many times in this House, in the Committee on the Budget, where we have consulted these budgets, I have pointed to a growing wage gap between the main inspection posts: the Supreme Chamber of Control and the State Labour Inspection since the beginning of the transition. You started at about the same wage level, and today the difference is more than 30 times as far as wage levels are concerned. The importance of the State of activity fully justifies whether it justifies the pursuit of flattening a little bit of this dissection. This is one of the main arguments that we are raising, which I am raising, that this effect should be achieved, which the inspector spoke of the need to achieve, which is a condition for ensuring the correct level of staff newly arriving for inspection, its personnel. Here I declare that you certainly have allies both in my person and in the parliamentary club. In conclusion, all this has been said, I would like to request, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice to adopt a report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016, print No 1703. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u378	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u379	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Chief Inspector and the Employees! Members of the Labour Protection Council! Honourable Members! Given the timing that we are concluding the Sejm, as my predecessor, I am so reluctant to use the card and to quote the data that are to be read from a comprehensive, detailed report, or which have been referred to today by your Chief Inspector. Indeed, may I say a few things that are noteworthy, which would make dialogue between us perhaps better, communication would be better. There is no doubt that I will start by saying that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is a good judge of your work, the way the institutions operate, the results obtained. I also join you in wishing and thanking you for the enormous work done by almost 2700 people, almost 1550 inspectors. I think that the essential element that shows that you are achieving results is the statistics of fatal accidents and serious accidents. Here we have clearly a year-to-year decline, hopefully this trend will continue. Of course, the structure of these accidents does not change because the structure of the economy is what it is, but it is clear that we have progress, and hopefully it will continue. At the same time, it should be noted that organisational issues play an increasingly important role. You note that almost 50% accidents are caused by organisational issues, so there is a gigantic area for impact and action. I think that you decide to a large extent the quality of life of Poles, because the issue of the working environment is crucial, important for 16 million employees, but at the same time slowly your work is important, it affects, I would say, the shaping of the image of Poland, because in Poland there is a million Ukrainian citizens working, and how they perceive Poland, and how they perceive Poland, and how they see it through the working environment, is of great importance for our relations, also strategic ones. I encourage you to be deeply involved in identifying the problems of the labour market in this particular category of people. On the one hand, they patch gaps in the labour market, without them the Polish economy would no longer manage, on the other hand, they shape the image of Poland in our eastern neighbours. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to what is not in the report or is perhaps inadequately noted. Well, our economy is becoming more and more a knowledge-based economy. These reports clearly show a static picture of the economy, where we focus on the working environment associated with the production of goods or services and employed work in such a classic way. On the other hand, this knowledge-based economy is increasingly an economy of intellectual creations or public services, and we note here really very drastic phenomena - for example, the issue of resident doctors, where we have seen cases of death due to overwork. I think we should pay attention to what's going on, that I'm going to use here a quote from the song of the band Yugoton, in the office buildings of glass doors. What's going on in the glass doors? It seems to me that the State Labour Inspection does not have the right instruments to properly control those elements which are associated with long-term work, sometimes exceeding the working time limit by 100%. The 80-hour working week is the norm - where we deal with stress, overwork, chronic fatigue mainly of young people, corps of various types of consultants. This applies, of course, to international corporations, but also to the banking environment, maybe to companies of the Treasury. I would expect you to try to find tools to study this environment, these entities, these institutions, in order to relieve, above all, the young people on whom we bet, because they are to start families. The rest of the questions may be raised in questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that I thank you again for your work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u380	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the report of the Chief Labour Inspector for 2016. The document contains a number of detailed data, in particular thematic sections, collected from the audit, also on the basis of the number of legal measures, broken down into the nature of the infringement, but does not give an in-depth analysis of the phenomenon in terms of the scale of the infringements. The discussion of statistical data lacks the breakdown of established irregularities into the various organisational units of the State Labour Inspection, i.e. district labour inspectors, and this would allow for a more comprehensive assessment of the work of individual individuals in the context of the results achieved or the identification of places and entities where irregularities occur or increase. The report often uses the term, I quote, from inspectors, which, in my opinion, is contrary to the nature of the document, as it is the report of the Chief Labour Inspector. The conclusions or suggestions from the inspection of inspectors should therefore be examined in the Chief Labour Inspector before they are included in the document and confirmed by the authority of the Head of Office. A large number of the information contained in the document also requires analytics in a multi-annual context, taking into account the cyclicality of the report, the constancy and priority of certain PIP tasks. Instead of mentioning the fact that many times have been written, issues of concern should be the subject of information and media policy by the chief labour inspector, which is lacking in our assessment. This does not have a positive impact on the state of knowledge of specific risks or irregularities requiring more effective legislative policy, including in the Sejm. Even the annual adoption of a report on multi-directional diagnoses in a crowd of information and data... It's just slipping away. I change the office's information policy in this area Modern postulates. Therefore, the Posel Club Modern recommendations for adoption of the report of the Chief Labour Inspector. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u383	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present the club's opinion on the report of the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016 together with the position of the Labour Protection Council. High Izbo! The scope and competence of the State Labour Inspection is defined by the Act of 13 April 2007. It states that the State Labour Inspection is the body set up to supervise and control labour law, in particular health and safety rules and regulations, as well as rules on the legality of employment. While in the legislative framework, I think it should be noted that the reporting year, i.e. 2016, was quite specific. At least that's how I remember it. In the past year, as many as four entered into force, it is necessary to say that amendments to the laws, which increase or change the powers of regulation: on 13 April, the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance, on 4 June, came into force on the promotion of employment and the institutions of the labour market, another act on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, and finally on 22 July, the Act on the amendment of the Energy Law, which also included some part of the labour inspection. I will also mention that in the reporting year two laws were also published, which came into force this year, in 2017, namely in July the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and, in November, the Law on National Tax Administration, but I quote these provisions, these laws as a symbol, an example of the scope of competence, as well as the obligations, large obligations imposed on the institution, and in fact the employees employed there, on inspectors. And here's a big and sincere thank you for your work. I direct them to all employees on behalf of the club which I represent at the moment, the Polish People's Party. High Izbo! As can be seen from the new legislation that I have mentioned, the report by the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection covers a very large scale of issues that are currently being addressed by the inspection. But I have the impression that it is impossible not to start with the question - whether or not to highlight this subject - which is always very sensitive and often annoying. In 2016, labour inspectors examined the circumstances and causes, and perhaps the wording of 2224 accidents at work during the reporting year should also be used. As a result of these events, 2585 people were injured, including 792 were seriously injured, and, unfortunately, 254 were killed as many as 254. These were events, accidents which, of course, were reported to the State Labour Inspection, so they could be included in the statistics and assessed on the reasons. Among those affected with fatal outcome, the largest group died in accidents in the processing industry, transport, but unfortunately also in agriculture, forestry - here a high indicator, almost 10%, 9.3. Of course, the report makes this very precise and it must be acknowledged that it describes this issue extensively. I think the analysis of this data is material and causes for many actions. The National Labour Inspection should also be thanked for such analytical work. Another issue examined in detail and presented in the report is the preparation of workers for safe work, including medical examinations, health and safety training and occupational risk assessment. High Izbo! In addition to the control activities, the labour inspection shall take preventive action and promote the protection of work. This is also a very important scope of the institution's work. Campaigns such as "Enable safety when working wood" or "Stress at work"? Find a solution or a competition to get a PIP diploma, but also a publishing activity, training brings tangible effects related to the protection of human life and health. I think so, and I'm sure it is. It is worth noting that the National Labour Inspection also deals with compliance with the employment rules for disabled persons, controls issues related to the legality of employment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] foreigners and a whole range of other issues described in the laws I mentioned here. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish People's Party Club... [[Thank you very much.]] ...positively opinions on the 2016 State Labour Inspection Report. [[Mr President, time is up, thank you very much.]] I recommend... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u384	Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Law and Justice have the floor. [[There isn't.]] Absent. Is Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Law and Justice here? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u385	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On 1 January 2018, an amendment to the regulations on employment of foreigners in Poland enters into force. Do you think that these changes will somehow help the State Labour Inspection to improve the effectiveness of the checks on the legality of the employment of foreigners? What is the scale of illegal employment in the assessment of the State Labour Inspection, and what was the results of the inspections carried out in this area? Does the labour inspection have any proposals and recommendations to limit illegal employment? What action, including legislative action, should be taken to make controls more effective? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u386	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u387	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The industry, where for many years we have had signals that there are most accidents at work, is construction. The fact is, at the beginning of my professional career, I also dealt with these issues. In this area, a specific method of short checking has been used, which has consistently been repeated to confirm that the application of this method reduces the occurrence of irregularities and corrects the actions. I would like to ask whether these methods are also used in other industries and what the results are. The second question relates to comments [[♪ The bell ♪]] my colleagues from the section of disabled people in the "Solidarity." It is not often that they have less working time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u389	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In the section describing checks on the employment of disabled persons, the proposals include a provision concerning legislative action taken by the State Labour Inspection to prevent abuse by doctors carrying out preventive medical examinations of workers of the power to agree not to apply reduced working time standards up to 7 hours a day and 35 hours a week and to night and overtime work. Could you approximate this problem and point out what action has been taken by the State Labour Inspection in order to reduce adverse events for people with disabilities? One more thing: Is the new approach to control activities carried out during the so-called. the first checks that were discussed so much last year resulted in the expected improvement of compliance [[♪ The bell ♪]] Labour law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u390	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u391	Thank you. You put forward nine legislative proposals last year. It's hard for me to say if it's much or little. But what's interesting here? In four cases, which concerned health ministers, the environment, development and infrastructure and construction, there was no response to your conclusions, which seems to be a grieving practice and should in principle be changed. From the practice of the State Control Commission, which I am a member of, I know that a similar syndrome affects NIK. As we analyze the reports at the end of the year, we have about 80%. applications not received, not carried out. There seems to be some general, structural problem here. Can the inspector elaborate on this issue, and do you have any recommendations for the Committee on State Control? Because perhaps these proposals should always go to the Committee on State Control, because the conclusions de lege ferenda are a treasure. They actually have the ability to change reality. It would be good if they weren't just wasted in the world. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u392	Thank you very much. Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Law and Justice have the floor. Is Mrs Kaczorowska here? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, 2016 is undoubtedly a very busy year for the State Labour Inspection. You help both employers and employees to comply with labour law. The fact that you are doing this effectively indicates, among others, that you are doing it effectively. This is today's report we've been dealing with. Minister! Indeed, the State Labour Inspection has always had and has wonderful professionals, people prepared for work. 2016 was the year when district labour inspectors were called off, which is natural when the new president comes, because he has the right to choose the staff, but he should also choose. So far, many district labour inspectors have a shortcut before their name, which means acting director of work. I wanted to ask: What was the main reason why the minister couldn't select district labour inspectors? How's it looking today? How many more district labour inspectors have been appointed to this position? Thank you. [[You can still talk because you have time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u394	Thank you. [[That's enough.]] Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u395	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the scale of preventive measures in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. This is a very, very important segment in our economy. Does the labour inspection in this respect have any insights, is it developing this activity in this area? I wanted to ask, because the inspection is not only to punish, but also to help employers. Should any of the out-of-control activities of the State Labour Inspection to help employers be considered the most effective, simply effective? You don't have to punish, sometimes you have to advise, give advice. This is very important. And I also wanted to ask you about this educational activity of the State Labour Inspection. You have to teach young people. We will now build vocational education, industry education. We have to teach these people work regulations. I see the role of the State Labour Inspection here. Is the State Labour Inspection on this matter, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is he preparing for this subject? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u396	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Further reports on the activities of the State Labour Inspection describe actions to eliminate the abuse of civil law contracts. The scale of the phenomenon resulting from the inspection is very worrying, but the inspection points out that control activities are not sufficient to bring about lasting change. What changes should be made to the rules in order to change this situation? Another question. Inspector, what legal tools does the State Labour Inspection have to apply in situations where employers do not perform PIP speeches which are not binding, and are there any legal steps being taken in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u398	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u399	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll ask the Minister questions. As you can see in the p. 57 of the report, the proposal for legislative action, quote: preventing abuse by doctors of the right to consent not to the application of reduced working time standards for persons with disabilities? On p. 60 reports as a conclusion are indicated, and I quote: The checks have revealed that some employers force disabled workers to apply to doctors for prevention to accept overtime and night work or even not to apply specific working time rules. The questions are: How many inspections have revealed such phenomena? How was such extortion documented during the check? In the Minister's view, is the fact that such a request is a violation of the law, and if so, how would you classify it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u400	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of Chief Inspector Wiesław Łyszczek's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm going to group these questions together and answer some of them right now, and I'm going to give the rest of them written answers because they're detailed, they need statistical data. In 2018, a change of the regulations on foreigners actually enters into force. This change in the practical meaning of this word will improve the work of labour inspectors in such a way that labour inspectors will have access to the register of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, which will be in the ICT system, to the central register of work permits and employers' statements. In general, they will be able to shorten the checks carried out by the labour inspectors and, during the course of their checks, to have all the materials available and to submit to employers where there are actual infringements, or whether there are irregularities. The fine for violating foreign regulations has also been increased. Therefore, these measures are intended in such a way as to seal the system and not only that employers comply with the applicable legal provisions laid down by the legislator. As regards the disclosure by inspectors of abuse work by doctors carrying out preventive medical examinations of workers' consent to an extension from 7 hours to the full dimension... These practices are being applied, but the labour inspection can only notify the occupational medicine doctor of the practice and, as such, there is no legal option for the employer to punish for this. As a labour inspection, we also do not have a legislative initiative, and therefore we ask the authorities that have such an initiative to take appropriate action. We will continue to do so in order to improve the work of labour inspectors, to increase job safety and to improve the working conditions of employees. What actions need to be increased... It's about the disabled. In fact, this is generally unethical behavior of doctors. We see and send information to the competent authorities of the state administration. As I said, the labour inspection of the legislative initiative does not have, therefore the competent authority is the Sejm, or the Minister responsible for labour matters, or another body which may make such an initiative. We will only propose a revision of the rules in this respect between the various bodies. One of the gentlemen said that in 2016 district labour inspectors were called off and by the name of... that there were still people from the PO. That's right, right now the chief labour inspector has requested the appointment of district inspectors. It was three people. It is not very much, it resulted from the fact that the chief labour inspector died and then there was no one to bring, because there was no competent authority. Yes, he replaced the Chief Labour Inspector during this period, but the Chief Labour Inspector was competent, and he also asked the Labour Protection Council to appoint persons acting as district labour inspectors. The scale of preventive action in small and medium-sized enterprises. Preventive measures apply to all companies, not just small companies. These actions have concrete results. Training and prevention programmes organised by the State Labour Inspection allow to say that there are a very large number of entrepreneurs who later use their knowledge, and then there is less risk that the employer concerned will violate labour law. This is due to subsequent checks, there are fewer infringements, fewer penalties. These declines can already be seen in our reports, it can be seen that the decline is systematic. This is due to the fact that the public awareness of employers and workers in respect of labour law and health and safety regulations is also increasing. All these actions, I'd say... Which of these preventive measures should be used in particular? All should be applied and not limited, but the labour inspection should have more resources for preventive programmes, because at the moment, our measures are actually very small. Compared to e.g. To the ZUS it's a drop in the sea. And when a labour inspection is responsible for the state of compliance with labour law, health and safety regulations, the legality of another job, it is a very big help for employers, but also for workers, because there are fewer accidents at work. Therefore, I will continue to insist that prevention programmes have the effect of fewer people being affected by accidents at work. What else does the labour inspection call for? In order to equip labour inspectors with the possibility that in the course of the conclusion of civil law contracts, labour inspectors may, by administrative decision, change the civil law contract if it fulfils the conditions of the employment contract so that it can be converted into an employment contract. Instead of going to court... For this procedure to be shortened. The employer will have the opportunity to appeal to the competent labour court. There will therefore be no abuse of the law by labour inspections. Let me say this again, in the case of civil law contracts, especially in the case of employment on the basis of works contracts, employees are practically deprived of... they are not subject to accident insurance. When an employee has an accident, there is no compensation, and the family must pay for the maintenance of the employee, bear the cost of his rehabilitation. Mrs Stępień. As I have already said, as a labour inspection, we do not have a legislative initiative, but we will make sure that the authorities that have this initiative help the labour inspection to improve the work of labour inspectors and reduce the risk of accidents. If I left out any of the questions, I'll try to answer them in writing. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u402	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u403	On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to give my position on the report of the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016, together with the position of the Labour Protection Council and the position of committees, prints Nos 1703 and 1918. On 6 June 2017, at the plenary meeting of the Labour Protection Council, the Chief Labour Inspector, Mr Roman Giedrojć, presented a report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016. The Labour Protection Council voted on this issue on 4 July 2017. The action of the State Labour Inspection in 2016 is 82.5 thousand. control at 67,7 thousand. entities, 8.8 thousands. employment contracts concluded with persons previously working under civil law agreements or without any contract, enforcement of PLN 184 million in claims on employment relationships, 250 training for employers from sectors with particularly high levels of occupational risk, 54.1 thousand. students taking part in the lessons carried out. According to the report, testing and measurement of harmful factors at workplaces has been increased from 3.5 000. persons up to 5,4 thousand Compared to 2015 The result of control was, among others. elimination of direct threats to life and health over 70,000. employees, bringing to the conclusion of employment contracts for 9 000 persons and enforcement of over PLN 184 million outstanding debts for 102 thousand. employed. It's a big success. During the inspection, significant infringements were found in the regularity of the application of civil law contracts. According to the inspectors, civil law contracts are too often applied where ordinary employment contracts should be concluded. In 2016, no wages were paid to every tenth of the staff member checked, and they were received by 12% in the short term. employees. Labour inspectors spent over 6,000. wage decisions. The biggest deficiencies concerning health and safety were found on construction sites, in underground mining plants, in forest service plants and in production facilities. Foreigners were also included in the controls. The most often illegally working foreigners were Ukrainian citizens. The first audit strategy is an interesting change made by the State Labour Inspection in 2016. According to it, the first audit in a micro, small and medium-sized company is carried out in the form of a comprehensive audit and instruction, in principle without sanctions. It's a very good change. By the end of last year, the labour inspectors carried out more than 10,000. such checks. As a result, only in one tenth of the companies audited for the first time had to impose sanctions because of gross infringements of the law. This shows that there is progress in compliance with the rules. One of the main areas that the PIP highlighted in its activities in 2016 was employment issues, in particular compliance with the revised rules. The audit activities focused on issues relating to the establishment and termination of employment relationships, as well as on the establishment of employment relationships under civil law agreements and respect for the rights of temporary workers. The institution's particular interest was related to the revised labour law rules on the rules for the conclusion of fixed-term contracts which entered into force on 22 February 2016. The State Labour Inspection has committed itself to enforcing the new rules. Very often the reason why the PIP checks are not complied with by employers for economic reasons. Unfortunately, this is the result of the high non-wage labour costs borne by Polish entrepreneurs. Very bad and adverse for potential future controlled records in the report are, I quote: 1. Consideration should be given to the obligation to report persons to social security before they are admitted to work. 2. It is necessary to introduce such instruments into Polish legislation, which would allow effective enforcement of the prohibition to replace employment contracts with civil law contracts (e.g. provide labour inspectors with the power to issue an order to convert a civil law contract into a contract of employment). If this proposal were to enter into life, I understand that it was inspectors and not employers and employees who would decide the terms of the agreement that both parties agreed to? This suggestion is a hit on the Civil Code. These are normal contracts that have been concluded with the consent of both parties. 3. National Labour Inspection Inspectors should be provided with online access to the data contained in the registers: the Social Insurance Institution, the General Electronic Population Recording System and the unemployed. This is another bad idea interfering with the next range of activities of Polish companies. 4. The powers of labour inspectors should be strengthened. Please indicate to what extent These should be increased. 5. It should be possible for labour inspectors to impose fines by means of a criminal mandate for offences relating to the non-payment of contributions to the Labour Fund. To what extent would such a fine be imposed? I'm asking for details of this solution. It is good and beneficial for potential future monitoring of the report's record that it is necessary to organise and simplify the legal framework for labour protection, as well as to reduce the frequency of their changes. That's where I fully agree. The less over-regulating and imposing further obligations on employers, the better. Just a little bit of this provision has nothing to do with previous proposals, but it would impose new obligations on employers. Good proposals for legislative changes that are worth introducing should be mentioned, among others.: - defining the concept of normal remuneration in respect of overtime, - the deadline for payment of remuneration for work and other employee benefits in the event of termination of the employment contract, - defining the concept of "remuneration" in the context of deductions from remuneration for work, - the definition of a fixed place of work in the context of the payment of service-related claims, - definition of the concept of "free day," - the statutory settlement of the financial compensation for not giving a day off work in exchange for work on a day off resulting from an average of five days' work week, in cases where the worker does not exceed the average weekly working time standard. One last question. Is there an idea that in future the State Labour Inspection should include under the supervision of government administration, e.g. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy? In my opinion, such a solution could further improve the operation of the PIP.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u404	According to data from the Provincial Labour Office in Opole, he takes up work in the region on a monthly basis approx. $3,000. foreigners. Ninety-six percent of them are Ukrainians. Of which 43% people find work in the capital of the region, most often in the development of greenery, cleaning, as well as in construction and processing. Recently, we have seen the influx of Ukrainian citizens into our country, including the voivodship from which I come, but on many issues, however, the employment of foreigners occurs abuse or irregularities. In view of the above, please answer the following questions: 1. How many State Labour Inspections have carried out inspections of enterprises that employ foreigners in the Opole Voivodship? 2. How many of these checks showed irregularities in the employment of foreigners, and what were the violations? 3. What actions did PIP put in place to address the growing irregularities in the employment of foreigners in Poland? 4. Many cases of abuse or violations of the law against foreigners are not detected by the fact that these workers do not know their rights or are being bullied. What action has the PIP taken to raise awareness of foreigners in the investigation of their rights?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The State Labour Inspection shall carry out part of the checks as a result of complaints lodged. Are there any trends in the number of such checks over recent years? Does this number increase, and how does it relate to the number of inspections carried out by the inspection? The handling of complaints is probably a labour-intensive activity and therefore does this affect the efficiency of the office's work?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u406	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report by the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016. In the report, the Chief Labour Inspector presents the results of the inspection and surveillance and prevention activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016 and the conclusions of the analysis of 82,5 thousand. inspections carried out by labour inspectors. I congratulate the inspectors on eliminating the risks to life and health, recovering many outstanding salaries, enforcing written confirmation of the existence of the employment relationship and the many successful checks they have made. I also wanted to congratulate the inspector very warmly on the idea of the so-called. the strategy of first control. The solution introduced that the first check in micro, small and medium-sized companies is carried out in the form of a comprehensive audit and instruction, in principle without sanctions, is undoubtedly a very good step in the direction. This will allow for a better attitude of the employer to control and make it possible to learn the rules that apply to him. But I have to add a teaspoon to that honey barrel. There is still much to be done. Employers still know too little about workers' rights and obligations to them. That is why large-scale education is really needed. It is clear from the report presented that in Poland many people still do not comply with labour law, as evidenced by more than 80,000. offences against the rights of persons engaged in employment. In Poland, it is common practice to employ people who protect different objects for the work of the contract. Such a contract does not oblige the employer to apply a minimum hourly rate. However, such workers work according to the schedule sometimes 24 hours a day, and often work more than 200 hours a month. Such circumvention by the employer is common in Poland, and unfortunately PIP does nothing about it. From this point on, I call on the inspector to act actively to change the law in this respect, so that employers also respect workers' rights in this case. Despite many positive actions of the State Labour Inspection, there is still much to change for Polish workers. My dream is that the Polish employer should reward his employees with dignity and integrity, respect their rights and obligations, and then we will undoubtedly be able to talk about the successes of all of us and the proper functioning of the whole system. I thank the Inspector and all the employees of the State Labour Inspection for their actions so far and ask for more. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the 2016 report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u407	The committees request the adoption of the report of the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2016 contained in print No 1918. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 52nd meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 21 November 2017, a conference organized by the city social assistance centre took place in my home town Starogard Gdański. The partners of the event were: the Foundation It was attended by local authorities, representatives of medical communities, uniformed services, teachers, parents. On that day we also celebrated Social Worker's Day in Poland. I'm late to join your wishes on this occasion. I could not attend this important event. I've sent a letter to the conference participants, which I'm allowing myself to read right now. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Self-Governmentians! Guests of the Conference! The subject that you are taking is extremely important - to address the risks of healthy relationships in the family. For the sake of local authorities, social workers, medical workers, so-called realizers. aid projects - I mean here also the one called "Enough to want." Together against child abuse, I stress that in all actions it is important to remember that the family is irreplaceable, regardless of whether we look at it from a secular or religious perspective. Today, this smallest social cell is in crisis. The family ceases to be a place where children are raised, socialized, and morally sensitive. What we adults remember years ago as a natural parenting process has become unfashionable and old-fashioned. New and Alien our cultural educational models, the widely promoted relativization of concepts do not serve to establish a proper relationship in the family, they do not serve the well-being of children and young people. Ensuring security, care, close ties, positive and developmental experiences is, as you raise in the content of this project, a task for society as a whole. Therefore, as a representative of the legislative authority, I am pleased that a new Ministry, Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy has been established in Poland, which already defines the priority of tasks in its name. The state must create such living conditions in families so that they can re-enter their role in society and the educational process. The more parents at home, the more conversations, the more time spent, the more holidays together, participation in social and cultural life, the less threats. It's easier to prevent, how to treat. The audit carried out in 2016 of the innovative programme "500+' indicates that the scale of undesirable consumption of the financial resources from the programme is relatively small. It means the family knows, the family can, the family is responsible. But you have to trust your family and create the right conditions to care for your offspring. Such measures should be taken to ensure that the child is taken as long as possible under the care of the mother and that the period of care should be included in the pension insurance period. This is what the current government policy is about. And as strange as this sounds here, I wish all parents, children, and young people not to have to use aid programmes. I wish all families peace, security and the feeling that they are most important to the country. On the other hand, I wish those who work for those in need of help deeply and sincerely that their help is really necessary, that there is no bureaucratic excess in their work, that the aid is properly addressed. I wish you unfailing empathy and reasons for satisfaction. A man needs another man, but art is to help not to harm the dignity of a man. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u409	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u410	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year marks the 90th anniversary of the establishment of the School Complex No. 1 in Łukow. The educational mission carried out in this school is 90 years of continuous preparation of staff for Polish industry and crafts. It is a shared responsibility for the economic development of the country and helping young Poles choose their profession. It is also a good time to ask the question: Where is vocational training in Poland going? This type of education requires an in-depth reflection on the state of this type of education and increased work to improve it. I am pleased that the Ministry of National Education has adopted this subject, for example, through the organisation of industry seminars, where employers' representatives, together with the educational community, analyse the needs of the labour market and the opportunities to train future professionals in particular professions. However, I think this is just the beginning of the way of repairing the vocational training system, which has been badly neglected in previous years. Such opinions fall from the whole environment related to the practical learning of professions, i.e. vocational schools and vocational training establishments. The main problem is the lack of synchronization of industry needs with educational opportunities of schools. This has negative effects in the form of unemployment among certain categories of workers and at the same time excessive job offers in other segments. Violent attempts to repair the situation at school level create unnecessary tensions. For we must remember that the creation of an educational base - staff, workshops, training procedures - requires money and time. It happens that the full educational power of the institution is obtained at the moment of receiving a signal about reducing the demand for this type of specialist. The whole presented reality additionally complicate legal changes and decisions at the level of individual ministries; I will remind you of the problem of the elimination of education in the field of pharmaceutical technology. In order to maintain the stability of education, it is necessary to anticipate needs at least five years in advance. In this respect, we can draw on the experience of other countries where, as in Germany, there are regional centres of competence that define the courses of education in the future. The decentralisation of such forecasts allows attention to be focused on local opportunities and needs, while at the same time being a protection against global lobbying. To sum up this part of my argument, I am saying that everything must be done to avoid sudden changes in education and, at the same time, by analysing the many spheres of life, to discover all opportunities for changes in the needs of the labour market and to prepare the education system for them to come. Another need is to increase efficiency in the transfer of solutions. Vocational schools are currently doing well in this area by working with production companies and vocational schools from other countries, but the existence of regional advisory services creating international cooperation programmes would make this process much easier. An important problem for vocational schools is the difficulty of raising funds to invest in school workshops. I am far from expecting this issue to be resolved in the end. However, financial support should be given to those schools wishing to make an effort to engage in the creation of innovative jobs and training in the most necessary national professions. The last point that I would like to draw the attention of ladies and gentlemen of Members to is the continuity of the tradition of Polish vocational education. This type of school was, at least in part, accepted by the invaders and invaders of Poland. For this reason, many of them, such as those mentioned by me at the beginning of the speech of School Complex No. 1 im. Henryk Sienkiewicz in Łukow works among many historical references. The patriotic traditions of this and other vocational schools are an important complement to their educational offer. They're the basis of the educational process. In view of the above, I ask the High House to specifically support initiatives improving the working conditions of vocational schools in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u411	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year the Archaeological and Historical Museum in Głogów celebrates the magnificent anniversary of the half century of its existence. Fifty years of activity of the facility caused it to permanently enter into the cultural landscape not only of Głogów. The museum is undoubtedly also a significant point on the cultural map of the whole Lower Silesia. Here it is worth mentioning that it is the initiator and organizer of projects not only local, but also those of a national and international nature, thus promoting Polish history and national heritage. Although the first initiative to create a museum on Głogów's land was born in the 1920s. In the 19th century, the first museum in Głogów was created only in the 3rd decade of the 20th century. Fighting over the Głogów fortress in 1945 caused the city to be leveled to the ground. The museum, like many other urban institutions, has ceased to exist. After the end of World War II and after changing the borders of Głogów he found himself in a completely new socio-political situation. With the end of the war, the process of raising the city from the ruins began. He's still going on. Another important stage in the history of the city began with the discovery of copper deposits in the late 1950s. With the development of the copper pit, the development of Głogów began. It should be assumed that the seed of modern museums in Głogów was the creation of a Museum Chamber in the city in 1965. It was created on the initiative of archaeologist Mieczysław Kaczkowski. In 1967 the Chamber ceased to exist and on 7 October the Museum of Steel and Casting of Color Metals was established. Mieczysław Kaczkowski was the head of the facility. The museum is located, partly still in ruins, in the castle of the Dukes of Głogowski. Despite the local problems resulting from the renovation of the premises, the staff of the museum conducts a dynamic exhibition activity, collects and develops exhibits, and finally deals with the protection of monuments. Since 1978, the Głogów office has carried out tasks concerning the protection of archaeological monuments in the area of the former Legnica voivodship, handed over to it by the voivodship conservationist of monuments. After his death in 1981, the first director and creator of the Głogów museum, promoter of history and culture, the director's duties were briefly performed by Józef Miszczyszyn. In 1982, Leszek Lenarczyk, who is the director of the Głogowski Museum, managed this facility to this day, became the director of the museum. Leszek Lenarczyk, archaeologist and museum artist, graduate of the Jagiellonian University with experience in the field of antiquities protection, enthusiastically undertook to continue the work started by Mieczysław Kaczkowski, writing together with the employees his own chapter in the history of the Głogowski museum. The reconstruction of the castle, in which the Głogów museum is located, ended in 1983. The already solid museum collects collections, organizes exhibitions and conducts scientific and conservation activities. Between 1983 and 1991, the facility operates under the name of the Museum in Głogów - Archaeological and Conservatory Centre. Since 1992, as a result of the acquisition of the museum by the City Council of Głogów from the Legnica Voivodeship, the institution has been granted the statute and the name of the Archaeological and Historical Museum in Głogów, which is still valid today. An important moment for the museum was the registration of the facility in 1989 on the World List of Museums and in 2008 on the National Register of Museums. Another important event in the history of the Archaeological and Historical Museum was the creation in 2010 of the most modern Center for Study and Magazine Archaeological Monuments in Poland. As a branch of the museum, it has realized, and continues to carry out, tasks commissioned, among others. by the National Heritage Institute. Today, the museum has collections of more than 42 thousand. archaeological, historical and art exhibits. In the collections there is one of the largest collections of numismatics, not only in Poland, but also in Europe. For years the Głogów museum has been carrying out a wide range of scientific, research and publishing activities. He is, of course, also the organizer of many exhibitions, including those which are presented not only in Głogów. The exhibition "Skarb z Głogowa" has been shown, among others. in Warsaw, Cracow, Zamość or Wrocław. The exhibition also visited Vilnius or Debrecen in Hungary. Other exhibitions were also shown in Sweden and Germany. The staff of the Archaeological and Historical Museum in Głogów conduct numerous educational activities, workshops and open lectures. The institution is also involved in projects of a national and international nature. For years the Głogów museum has been actively participating in European Heritage Days, Museum Nights or the Lower Silesian Science Festival. For more than 20 years, the museum has cultivated contacts with its compatriots, who still live on the old Ends of the Republic of Poland. The institution is the organizer of the Polish Culture Review, where Polish teams from Lithuania, Belarus, Ukraine, and the Summer Academy of Culture and Polish Language are invited to participate, educational project involving young Poles from the former Kresów, accompanied by young people from Głogów land. This year, the review of the "Kresa" took place for the 22nd time, while the Summer Academy of Culture and Polish Language was organized for the 18th time. International cooperation, such as the museum, deserves attention. For 30 years there has been a fruitful cooperation with German entities. Implemented by the Archaeological and Historical Museum in Głogów and the City Museum in Riesa in the years 2010-2011, the Polish-German youth research and exhibition project - Escape and expulsion - personal memories from the end of World War II was awarded in 2011. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The cultural prize of Saxony. The result of Polish-German cooperation is also presented in the museum exhibition Głogowian 1945. The Głogów office also cooperates with the Deri Museum in Debreczyn, Hungary and the Sharish Museum in Bardejów, Slovakia. To conclude, Mr. Marshal, I would like to stress: the 50th anniversary of the Archaeological and Historical Museum in Głogów should be an opportunity not only to recall the fate of this institution and its achievements, but also to highlight the huge importance of the work of the museum for shaping contemporary Polish society in the field of history, culture and care for national heritage, especially in the Western lands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-24-sejm-52-3.u413	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 52nd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 53rd session of the Sejm, convened on 6th, 7th and 8th December 2017, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 17 min 01]]
