ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the law amending the law The text of the Act is contained in print No 487, the report of the Commission in print No 487 A. [[Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u2	Mr. Marshal, based on the article. 48 (1) (a) 2 point 8 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, I kindly request the deletion from the agenda of item 13th: second reading of the draft law amending the Public Road Act It will be discussed at the next Senate meeting. The proposal is justified by the absence of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u3	Okay, Mr. Senator. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll take the offer. At the same time, I would suggest that there should be no votes of objection, because that is what needs to be done. Good. That's what we're gonna do. We will consider this item at the next meeting. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present to the High House the report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Law amending the Postal Law. The purpose of this amendment is to align postal legislation with the recommendations of the European Commission of 29 November 2015, to clarify the provisions relating to the provision of compensation for net costs in connection with universal service obligations and the rules on grants for the provision of services exempt from charges. With regard to universal service obligations, the Act introduces an adjustment to the calculation of the postal operator's contribution to the net cost financing. The correction shall take account of the operator's revenue threshold above which the obligation to contribute to the payment arises, and shall introduce a postal market investigation mechanism to assess the adequacy of that threshold and the percentage of the amount of that revenue, which shall determine the maximum amount of the postal operator's contribution to the payment. The Act also introduces an adjustment concerning the subsidy to the postal operator who made the postal service exempt from the charge. The grant can be granted not only on the basis of a decision of the European Commission, given as a result of notification, but also on the basis of European rules exempting public aid from notification. The Act also clarifies the provisions on the calculation of net cost by introducing the possibility of taking into account reasonable profit. The Act also limits the obligation to submit documents verified by the statutory auditor only to the situation of the operator's application for aid and clarifies the provisions on publication of information only if the financing of the net cost is triggered. The law shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, except for the provisions relating to the examination of the status of the postal market which will enter into force on 1 January 2019. Mr Marshal, High Senate, the Committee on Infrastructure asks the High House to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm not a member of this committee, so I'd like to know something. This reminds me a little bit of the principle of pricing for municipal services. Will compliance with these rules involve a minimum cost-effectiveness ceiling for us, and will it have an impact on service prices?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u7	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u8	Thank you. Mr. Senator, there was no such detailed discussion at the committee meeting, but there is a minister here who will probably explain it to you. It's hard for me to tell if they're gonna be... well, I guess they're not. Since there will be subsidies, it will probably not have an impact, because the subsidies are simply to supplement the losses that are associated with universality, i.e. with universal services, but details will be presented to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u9	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. Thank you very much, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Kazimierz Smolinski. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Act introduces a new obligation, or actually corrects the current way of calculating the net cost of universal service. The postal service is a universal operator and is therefore obliged to provide a universal service. There are certain requirements related to the obligation to provide this service for 5 days a week throughout Poland. These are territorial requirements for the number of facilities per population or for the corresponding area of the country. Therefore, there are consequences in the form of a potential loss to those operators who do not provide such a service. And that's why this obligation has been introduced. We're adjusting this mechanism here so that we're releasing the fee to this operator... No, the State creates a fund in the form of charges on all operators who provide these services of 2% but up to 1 million turnover operators are exempt from this. This creates a budget gap. The impact assessment provides for an amount of 20 million per year. And this is the loss that these small operators are currently filling. The only consequence of this change is that these small operators will simply not have to pay this fee because they will be exempt from it. This is, in a way, an act in favour of small operations. Their costs will be lower because they won't have to pay that fee. This has nothing to do with the price issue. The price of these services is regulated by the Electronic Communications Office, which controls universal services in this respect. Poland's mail recently changed prices, but it had to be agreed by UKE's president. And that's what she's agreed to. She had to provide a justification that she was suffering losses. This regulation is bilateral, on the one hand, the issue of the possibility of increasing prices regulated by the Electronic Communications Office and on the other hand... Because this universal service is provided to citizens, but there are commercial services where we also use postal charges. And that's why it's like there's a double-sided regulation here, on the one hand, it's possible to charge in the form of this net cost, and on the other hand to increase the price. And here's a correction or a possible lack of consent from the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. So that the President of the Office regulates price issues. And here the operator, regardless of which, on the postal market must obtain consent, must convince him to provide a substantive justification for this increase. Now that's the deal. When it will be soon, it is difficult to predict, but for many years there has been no significant increase in this service. With us, postal services, as far as prices are concerned, are still among the cheapest in Europe. So, of course, every raise is a problem, but the Electronic Communications Office regulates it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm still welcome from the Ministry... Excuse me, not from the Ministry, but from the Office of Electronic Communications, deputy president, Mr. Karol Krzywicki. Do you wish to speak? [[Senator Karol Krzywicki: No.)]] Minister, wait a minute, because there are more questions. Senators can ask them. But maybe there won't be any questions. Right now, senators can... [[But they don't have to.]] ...to report no more than one minute's query to the Minister related to this item on the agenda. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? No. Yes, thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Solinski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Senator Silence is still gone. Did he fall asleep? How about the chairman? Yes? Is it? [[Yes.]] We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 505, and the report of the committee In print No 505 A. I would very much like to ask the chairman of the committee, Senator Robert Mammothov, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting, the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions unanimously supported the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please remain on the stand. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the President. Are there any such questions? [[Yes.]] They're here. You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u14	Thank you. Mr Marshal, Mr President, Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask about attendance at this committee meeting. And I would also like to note the fact that I could not vote, it was justified. But the second more important question is this. What were the voices of the legal community on this matter, in particular the National Judicial Council? Would you mind moving this over to the High House? And one more thing. What other votes, apart from those on the part of those present at the committee meeting, have you noted whether the committee has taken note?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u15	Thank you. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At the committee meeting, you spoke with Judge Żurek of the National Judicial Council, who was strongly against this law. A few amendments have been tabled by the legislator. None of the senators have taken over these amendments. There was a motion to adopt a law without amendment and he passed. As far as attendance is concerned, the senator knows very well. 'Cause he was at a committee meeting at the beginning. That, of course, the quorum was. And that's what's important. Thank you very much. [[Quorum was.]] Yeah, it had to be. The Quorum had to be because the resolution was adopted in accordance with the regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u17	Good. Are there any more questions for Senator President? No. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I'm calling a five-minute recess until 9:21 p.m. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 16 to 9 minutes 22]] High Izbo! Resume session and extend recess until 9.30 a.m. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 22 to 9 minutes 32]] I'm reopening the session. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Luke Piebiak. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present. in a necessary summary, because the government project is quite long. A draft law amending the Law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws. Now the reasons for the amendment are very short. By Act of 18 March 2016, the parliament of this term of office considered that it was necessary to give a little more time so that the model of the functioning of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and its applications could be refined in detail. It is about this model, which was established in 2015 in the previous term. An analysis of the functioning of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office since its establishment in 2009 has led to the conclusion that the biggest problem in this institution is the lack of statutory guarantee for graduates of the national school who receive professional training, to receive judicial or asessorial positions despite a passed judge's exam and to complete extremely difficult training in this institution. This is not just a social loss. It is also a loss of high funding for training at the national school. In order to illustrate this thesis, I will point out that today only 30 judge application applicants from 160 judge applicants who had the right to apply for free judicial positions have been appointed. The analysis we carried out in consultation with the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office has also shown that, in practice, the functioning of the general court and the school have systemic shortcomings, bureaucratic regulations, and therefore some provisions amending the law on the system of universal courts have been included in this law. This law provides for the regulation of the legal situation of persons who have completed a judicial application at a national school, and of persons who are currently taking part in it or will continue to do so until 2020. During this time, applicants who started training on the general application on 30 January 2017 will take the judge's exam, while graduates of the first four years of the judge's application, according to the current legal state, are guaranteed the right to apply by means of a competition for the position of judge of the district court. It's an art power. 24 of the Act of 10 July 2015 would expire on 31 December 2022. These changes we are proposing are, above all, the introduction of a new model of becoming a judge, a preferred model. By means of a judicial application implemented at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, with complementary recruitment of candidates for judicial service from other legal professions. The changes proposed by the government and accepted by the Sejm will contribute to obtaining as many judicial applicants as possible employment in the general court. I have already mentioned how irrational the previous regulation has been. It is reasonable for the institution of the judicial assessor to link to the accepted model of initial training of candidates for judicial positions, because in the current legal state access to the position of the assessor was provided for many groups of candidates whose vocational training was not conducted at such a high level of substance and with such high public involvement as in the case of training by a national school. We assume that only those who have completed the application at the national school and have passed a judge's or prosecutor's examination with positive results can be appointed for the position of judicial assessor. Assessor positions will of course be given priority to judicial applicants, only in the absence of all assessors' positions by the applicants of the judicial application in the criminal departments will the Minister of Justice be able to order the appointment of these posts for prosecutors' applications. It is therefore desirable that, after the application has been completed, the result of the judge's exam, possibly the prosecutor's exam, in these rare cases, decide on the priority of the admission to the judicial assesura, and after the appointment of an assesura, if the course of the service does not raise any objections, the assessor has received a proposal for a judge's nomination without having to participate in the competition. In accordance with the Act, the Minister of Justice will appoint as a judicial assistant for an indefinite period of time. If the National Judicial Board does not object to the appointed assailant, it will be able to act as judge for a period of 4 years. This ensures the independence of the judicial assailant, on the one hand, by breaking up after the appointment of the link between the asessor and the Minister of Justice and, on the other hand, by ensuring the influence of the National Council of the Court of Justice both on entrusting the judges with their judicial functions as well as on the impact on further career as a judge. The Act strengthens the role of the national school in the process of training candidates to take judicial positions in the general courts and the prosecution's office. It restores the national school's full competence to organize applications, organise practices and restores the applicant's status as a national school scholar. There is a departure from the applicant's judicial and prosecutorial status as a court worker or prosecutor. The Act also strengthens the position of the head of the national school and shapes the interaction of the school authorities, reduces the composition of the programme board and limits its competence, as it becomes a strictly advisory and advisory body for the school head. If the senators have any questions, of course I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u19	Of course, yes, Minister, this moment is happening right now. Senators may report a question to the Minister from a place that lasts no longer than a minute. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Minister, to remain. Senator Piotr Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u20	Minister, one question: do you consider it a fair preference for graduates of the national school, and leave the so-called. old graduates of other applications or judge applications? I ask about references, assistants, but also about representatives of other professions who had the same chance with graduates. Do you see any justice here? Because I think that those people who were very well trained before, also by the school, although not only, and who were referees, assistants, will at the moment have limited access to the judicial profession, i.e.. Less chances than the current or future graduates.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Yes, I believe that this solution, which is proposed by the government, is a solution that is as fair as possible. This solution involves taking into account the interests of all stakeholders who operate in the area of justice, hence quite extensive transitional provisions. Therefore, despite the preference of the model with the national school, quite long periods for those who, you can say, have any actual experency to obtain or to obtain a judicial nomination according to the old regulations, they really have a chance to receive it. Finally, we have a 7-year period in this project for those who passed the judge's exam according to the old model, for assistants, for referenda. Moreover, although the legislator or the projector prefers a school-related solution as a solution for accessing the judicial office, it is not an exclusive solution. It will continue to be that some of the jobs in regional courts will be filled with assesoras trained at the national school, providing, well, a certain automation, which significantly accelerates staffing, and some posts will be announced as posts for free admission to judicial positions. And all those who have so far been able to apply for free judicial positions will, of course, still be able to apply, taking into account this limitation, quite long, however, because 7-year-olds. And this limitation will not be for representatives of other qualified legal professions: lawyers, lawyers, notaries. Of course, the situation of school applicants and the situation of others is slightly different, but this is justified by the fact that the school was created to educate future judges and prosecutors in a continuous process, consisting of a teaching process and a practical process. It would be worth looking at what education looks like at the national school: these are weekly reunions in Krakow, perhaps in the future, if the school develops, they will be somewhere else, maybe in Warsaw. And then for three weeks, there's practice in a court of law or in a prosecutor's office. Therefore, it is a mixed model, with a very large number of practical activities. This is a model that assumes continuous examination. It's not like one time the exam will work or it won't work, and a man has either a good future perspective or a lost career. At the national school, the exams are every month, from the various sections of the law. This is good from the theoretical point of view, good from the practical point of view, that is indeed a very demanding course of education. And there could be an end to that, but I think there's one more thing to be said about the senator's question. ♪ 'Cause you can bet ♪ - Some people are betting. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, On the ground of appeal: what about Art. 60 constitutions, with the principle of equal access to public service? Well, we respect that rule and respect that rule. Access to the national school is open, is on competitive terms. Very often today it is that these assistants, these referenda, these lawyers are getting on the judge's application at the national school. So as long as this road preferred by the legislator for the reasons that I have said is an open road that can be used for all those who are able to take a difficult preliminary test, we cannot talk about a breach of the principle of Article. 60 constitutions. The school invites all applicants who are able to meet what will be waiting for them there. Therefore, I believe that the model we are proposing is as fair as possible. This model, which has so far been in force, is an unfair model, as indicated by the results of the competition proceedings, the applicants in such a way enjoy relatively low trust from the National Judicial Council and are rarely elected as free judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator... There are still questions, Minister. Mr. Senator Silence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u24	Minister, I have a question in mind about the correctness of the regulation on judicial assessors, and I ask it in relation to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the Urban case against Poland. I've had the pleasure of running this case myself. The Court found that the assessor was not an independent judge within the meaning of Article. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights. Our legislation has been amended, and for some time the asessor's institution did not exist, and then, a few years ago, we re-introduced this institution, creating such guarantees, precisely against the background of this Strasburg ruling. like appointing an asessor by the president, not by a minister, as before. Now again we have returned to the solution in the form of the appointment by the Minister of Justice, i.e. we have returned to the system which was at the root of this adverse decision of the Strasbourg Court for Poland. Do you, despite all the security features that are additional And so, e.g. Now it is unmarked, and before that it was for a period of probably 4 years, there is no risk that the Strasbourg Court will question this? Have you considered this aspect of the case?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u25	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! There doesn't seem to be that kind of risk. If we are talking about this judgment, it must be recalled that it concerned the judicial assessor who was in the legal state at that time, as the senator rightly pointed out. After all, this state of law at that time was not rewritten to the government project and once again brought to Parliament, but significantly modified. He was modified precisely by introducing these warranty elements, these fuses, in order to avoid, first, the plea of non-compliance with the Constitution, secondly, the plea of infringement of the Article. 6 conventions and a possible negative judgment by the Strasbourg Court. I think it's crucial for all lawyers, and not only, that if we're talking about an asessor, then we have to remember that it's just the name of a position, although it's an important name, because it's established in our tradition. You can reach to the old Polish times, and you can also find these assesors there. The legislator uses this concept in various projects as a definition of a person who is to become a full judge in the future. But the asessor in this view, which was controlled by the Constitutional Court and the Strasbourg Court, the asessor in the view of this project, which was adopted in 2015, during the previous parliamentary majority, and the asessor of today are very different institutions. We, preparing this project... In fact, many people, in order to take all possible points of view into account, look at the judgments and the Polish Court, and the European Court of Human Rights, so as to take into account what was indicated in the justification of these judicates, and not to repeat the mistakes that were made and resulted in these two important decisions. I am convinced that these mistakes have been avoided. Well, sometimes the banner is carried out, at least that was the case in the Sejm, the argument related to the Minister of Justice. But the role of the Minister of Justice is in this process if we really read into the project, not just the ornamental role. What determines who becomes an assailant? Objective criterion: passed judge's exam. Who decides where this assistant will go: whether he will go to Warsaw or whether he will go to Hrubieszow or whether he will go to Suwałk? Well, it's the result of the national school exam. The Minister of Justice has no influence on this outcome of the exam. A ranking list will be created according to the number of points obtained on the exam, a list of free judicial positions will be created by the Minister of Justice. Those of you on this list will choose. Those who pass the judge's exam worse will have less choice. What does the Minister of Justice have to do here? Well, he's just going to make a list, just as today decides whether to leave Suwałk in Suwałki or move to Warsaw, because it's more necessary there. So that the role of minister is a technical role here. The minister appoints an asessor, and that's where his role ends, and that's what I mentioned. This bond is breaking. This is an unmarked time, not a time marked. A judicial vote, that is, what really determines the possibility of performing duties and services, well, almost the judge's, because with certain limitations, belongs to the National Judicial Council, not the Minister of Justice. So that here is a system of mutual competence of the national school, which organizes exams and creates a list according to who passed, according to scores, and the Minister of Justice, who, as he decides on the placement of posts, only decides to create a list which posts will be provided for the assistants. Then the choice of an asessor decides where he chooses a place, and then the National Council of the Court decides whether this man can rule or not. So that this set of guarantees in this system, in which powers are divided between different authorities, and the key competence to confer jurisdiction is not elsewhere, but in the National Council of the Court of Justice, which excludes the allegations of politicisation or the delegation of too far-reaching powers to the judicial authority, should exclude the possibility of taking a possible action into account in the European Court of Human Rights. But, of course, 100%. I can't answer that he's ruling out, because it's not the minister's decision whether or not I'll decide what to do with such a complaint, it's the tribunal. We have done everything possible to avoid such a negative outcome, but, of course, the evaluation remains in the hands of the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. Wait a minute, there's two calls. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, there is an opinion in public circulation that this amendment to the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is the next step to allow Minister Ziobra to fill 500 still vacant judicial positions. I would very much ask you to refer to this opinion. And tell me why these posts are still not filled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, my question goes to... It's about developing the thesis you presented. You have convinced yourself that this is the solution for the institution of the judicial assailant in this view, the constitutional one. I am asking if they were prepared for this circumstance by constitutionalists, and if so, which ones.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u31	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u32	To be honest, the accelerated procedure for examining this law, an important law, because concerning the principle applied in all democratic but even non-democratic countries, feudal Poland was not a democratic state, but the autonomy of universities was preserved. He's a... he's a... I wonder why this desire to violate the autonomy of universities. This kind of school, Minister, is, let's say, second-rate school, because it's a school that's supposed to perfect what was in the university, in different cathedrals. Why the interference? How can this intervention of the Minister or any state administration be justified in the autonomy of the university, in this case the second degree? How do you refer, Minister, to the reservations that the Senate legislative department is building? This reservation is linked to the ruling of the Constitutional Court that graduates led by your Minister of School receive preferences in the seat of judges. Isn't this an attempt to build a specific ghetto for the chosen, create inequalities or discriminate against others? Do you share your opinion? It's not my opinion. I'm not that smart. That the judge's office and even the prosecutor's office is the crown of the legal professions? In the meantime, the preference is given here because the main focus will be on graduating from this school... It is closed or limited to the participation of representatives of other professions who have gone through a wonderful path within the framework of a lawyer, counsel or even a prosecutor's office. Don't you think it's an exception to treat this as a reversal of the argument that the judicial office is the crown of the legal professions?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u33	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u34	Of course, Mr. Marshal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators! High Izbo! The issue of 500 vacant judges, Senator Zdrojewska asked such a question. That's about 500 job vacancies. This number is functional in public space. This is the actual number and these are the posts in the regional, district and appeal courts. Consequently, only a part of these vacant judicial posts can be filled by graduates of the national school. The ones assigned to the district courts... These jobs... It's changing all the time, because actually every day I decide on one or another appointment. However, this is usually a position in a district court, because these regional court judges are the most important. Today, some 300 jobs are provided to implement the bill if the High Houses so wish. The question is, senator, is it that the minister wants to fill these positions... Of course the Minister wants these posts to be filled because the Minister is responsible, also politically, for the judiciary to function properly. If the posts are not filled, judges or asessors do not perform the functions to which they are assigned in the future, i.e. primarily judicial functions, and this in turn adversely affects the performance of judicial proceedings. Therefore, yes, the Minister of Justice very much wants these posts to be filled as soon as possible. Moreover, since we are talking about the bill, it must be added that it allows for announcements within a month or two, that is to say, to carry out a procedure for the placement of vacant posts by the assistants, while the traditional procedure, which still remains in the case of other ways of reaching the judge's office, lasts about a year. Therefore, of course, it took some time, sometimes even months, to collect this pot. But since the project was being processed and there was no budget funding to suddenly take out another million zlotys from the budget and allocate to new jobs, it was necessary to collect these posts and not announce them, but to prepare them in the amount that will be needed when this regulation comes into force. So if the regulation comes into force, then in a very short time. Assesons will appear in the courts and begin their judicial activities. Of course, the remainder of the posts in the district courts and the appeals courts cannot be filled with assistants, so the procedure will be in force, i.e. the announcement and everything that happens after the announcement and ends with a visit to the President. But there is no tragedy here either, because in the case of district courts and appeals you can save yourself by delegation. This is also the case, if there are needs in appeals or district courts, the Minister of Justice may grant permanent delegations and if the needs are smaller, temporary delegations shall be given by the Presidents of the courts. As far as constitutionalists' expertise is concerned, as I remember, I haven't been doing it lately. We as the Ministry of Justice did not order formal expertise in this project unless I missed something at the moment, but of course there were expert opinions, from what I remember, in the course of the legislative process. I don't remember names. We have at the Ministry of Justice and at the national school 'Cause I'm not hiding that we've been preparing a project together. Very good professionals also in terms of compliance with the constitution, many prominent judges sent to the ministry or to the national school, so there was no need to eat more of the opinions or expertise of the constitutionalists as such. Senator Rulewski asked a very extensive question again. I'll try to answer all his parts. The autonomy of higher education institutions. Yes, but we're not talking about universities here, because it's not Minister Ziobro's responsibility, it's Prime Minister Gowin's. This is, of course, a further course of education, but very specific. If we're referring to this project... Because I'm finally here to present this project and answer your senators' questions. I don't quite know why the thesis in the senator's question about interfering with the national autonomy of the school in this bill. The national school has always been subordinate to the Minister of Justice since the beginning of 2009 and various political options have been ruled at that time. We're not changing anything here. It is still subject to the Minister of Justice, of course in a general, organisational way. It is not that the Minister of Justice gives instructions to the Director or staff of the national school, but somewhere it must be assigned and assigned to the Minister of Justice. It was so assigned when it was created, it was so assigned in the previous parliamentary term. Nothing changes around here. Therefore, I do not fully understand the intention of the question, because we do not propose changes in this respect by law. With regard to the crown of the legal professions, this is a legislative choice, a choice which the legislature can make, because the Constitution does not impose restrictions on whether the judicial service is organised on the basis of a judge's position at the top and saying that it is the crown of the legal professions. So there's no training institution, there's no prep institution, there's just a call from people who are available on the market, from lawyers, counselors, notaries, prosecutors, etc., etc. The Minister of Justice recognises that Poland is more suitable for this model, which is also the dominant model in continental Europe. We're here where we are, we have the culture and the legal system we have. This is continental Europe. Therefore, the model of the position or office of a judge as crown of the legal professions in the case of another legal tradition, in another legal system, especially when we are talking about a system of law versus common law, although it is no longer as it is said in theory that these are some pure systems... And this model is in our view more suited to common law system, this model of judge as crown of the legal professions. And for a reason it operates in the United Kingdom, it operates in the United States and does not function in continental Europe. Did we invent a national school now or our predecessors in 2008 or 2009? Oh, no, we weren't so original. This was done on the basis of the experience of the good leading European institutions. The first judge's academy that was created was the academy in France in Bordeaux. Our school, our system is the closest to the Spanish model. In the countries of continental Europe, the principle is that there is a judicial academy or a court-procurator academy and our school fits perfectly into this model. This is not an excess, I would say that this is a normal European continental typical practice. The senator said something about a ghetto for the chosen, etc. There is no ghetto. The choice is as honest as possible because it is based on the competition principle. You can say that the ghetto for the chosen... not for the chosen, but for the best. If we put it that way, maybe there's nothing wrong with it except the wrong wording. This is indeed an institution for the best Polish lawyers. They're crawling... every year there's a lot more eager than the places we can provide. They come from different parts of the country, from different backgrounds, have previously had different experiences, there are people right after college, there are people who were or are at the time of passing the exam to school assistants, referendators, but there are also those who are lawyers. They have very different experiences. What they have in common is unusual legal knowledge and a desire to serve as an asessor and then a judge or a prosecutor accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. Marshal Borusewicz is asking a question. [[Mr. Marshal, can I correct you?]] Yes. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz will ask the question, and then Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] The task of the Marshal's question does not preclude the question from being asked by... [[I accept this preference...]] No. Mr. Marshal came in first. [[Why don't I ask you a question?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u36	Minister! Mr. Marshal! The judges are off the table. If there are no judges or judges there is less than there should be, then the procedure suffers, there is a chronicity of trials, etc. And that's why courts are criticized by public opinion, they are criticized, among others. For the duration of the process. You said 300 jobs right now is the number that's meant for school graduates, once 500, now 300. Tell me how long these sizes have been secured. Have they been secured for a year, since Minister Ziobra took up office, or since you took up office as Vice Minister? That's the first question. The second question concerns the number of judges seconded at the moment to the Ministry of Justice. How many judges who ruled in the courts have been seconded to the Ministry of Justice, what is the number right now? I believe you're also a referee assigned to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u37	Good. Now Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u38	My question is a little bit related to my predecessor's question. Well, when I was talking about preferences and I used the word 'getto', as you say, not the best. This is what I said about the fact that the Act provides non-competition preferences for the employment of graduates of this school and that, according to the legislative department, this preference is contrary to the guidelines issued by the Constitutional Tribunal in 1976. [[Voice from the Chamber: 2007]] But in the light... In 2007, yes, I'm sorry. But in the light of the question of Marshal Borusewicz I'm sorry to extend it like this. This may mean that not putting up posts means waiting for these very preferred graduates?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u39	Is there another question? Senator Shark. And then the Minister's answer. You're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u40	Thank you very much. Minister, could you give me the five basic criteria for which you have decided to amend the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office? Yeah, it's about the bill... Of course, let us bear in mind that the judgment of the Constitutional Court was 14 October 2007. And second question. Could you tell me how many late... well, maybe not so many nominations, but the nominations presented by the National Judicial Council are presented to the President, but the President has not signed them to this day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u41	There you go, Minister, 3 questions 3 answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u42	Yes, of course. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, you're right to say, Senator Borusewicz, that the judges are essentially from judgment, and their absence makes the trials go slower than they could have been if they had been. It's truism. It's hard to argue with that. Since when do we de facto get jobs for future assessors? I think it's been about a year. First... I don't remember at this point exactly which job assigned to a given court, unannounced, is the oldest. I remember that in July there was an announcement concerning several judges' positions in the district court in Warsaw, but I also remember that they were stopped earlier... So it could be a matter of about a year. That's how I'd put it in time. But the exact answer, with an indication of the day, I'm not in a position to give it right now. However, I would like to stress that it is precisely in view of the fact that we have done well, by way of a few years, on the basis of undeveloped graduates of the national school, and in view of the forecast date of the entry into force of this law, that we have done well, because these values are more or less comparable, so that we will be able to offer assesor positions to everyone or almost everyone in the first place throughout the country. And in this way we will be able to carry out the dispositions of the bill because in the end, when Parliament approves something, the Minister of Justice is to do it. Secondly, we will be able to strengthen the courts in which we are waiting for the assessors. If this is a year, then one could say this: if the Minister of Justice had declared free judicial positions a year ago, perhaps it would have been these people who had been appointed by the President or expected it, because that's more or less how long it lasts, about a year. Perhaps for a few, several jobs we have some delay over what would have been in the old model, but in the case of the jobs I've been assigning even last week, we have no delay. It was May last week. We could expect posts to be filled in May 2018. If this bill comes into force, it might happen on vacation, or maybe in September. With regard to the time and possibilities for judicial action, profit is obvious here. Per balance certainly this bill will speed up the seat of the district courts, will not slow it down. How many judges are sent to the Ministry of Justice? I can't remember exactly, it's changing. Some judges are posted, others resign from the delegation or are dismissed. This is a normal HR process. I'm sure there's over 200 people. This number is not particularly different from what was in previous terms. This is some kind of constans. Well, there may be several, several or several dozen more people, but this is also a consequence of the fact that the duties of the Ministry of Justice, which are performed, among others. also by means of delegated judges, they grow. I'll give you an example of the verification committee. The bill on the verification commission entered into force. A new department, the Department of Administrative Law, which is partly composed of judges sent to the Ministry, must have been appointed to implement its provisions by the Minister of Justice, not only general court judges, but also administrative court judges. And they were seconded not by the Minister of Justice, but by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court at the request of the Minister. Senator Rulewski mentioned non-competition preferences for school graduates. Of course, such preferences are and are a consequence of a model whereby graduates are so well and so highly educated that they cannot be led to such a situation that they disappear somewhere, go to individual bar practice, work only for the sake of their own and the good of their clients, for their own financial success. The Polish state has put out millions of zlotys to benefit from them, whether from assesors or from referents or assistants. As part of the application, there are also internships in the courts where the duties of assistant or referee are performed. The senator asked for five basic reasons or reasons why we decided to make such a change. It is now difficult for me to return to the preliminary argument, where I made a few arguments about the length of the filling process, the argument related to the waste of public funds, the argument about releasing these people to the market, rather than using them in the manner to which they were educated, i.e. in courts. It's hard for me to sort it out and make five arguments right now. They were presented. The question about how many are waiting for the President's decision is a question I don't know the answer to. What's more, I have no right to know the answer. If it follows whether it's a post, whether it's the current system for the seat of judges today... There's no Minister of Justice at all. The matter of the seat of the judge goes through the judicial authorities, through the visiting officer in the court, is the opinion of the President, the College. And then he goes where? He's going to the National Judicial Council. Where's he going next? He's going to the president. The Minister of Justice doesn't even inform himself. We consider this to be a flaw in the current regulation. That the National Judicial Council in relation to such persons, not others... [[The Minister shall be informed of the agenda of each meeting of the National Judicial Board in which he is required to participate.]] Yeah, of course. He's one of the many... Twenty-five. Of course, the Minister of Justice may personally attend the meetings of the National Judicial Council, but it is difficult for this to be an effective way of communicating to the Minister of Justice all these circumstances. I don't know that number. I don't know what she's like. We don't get things that don't belong to us because it would be even rude.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] Senator Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u44	Minister, as a former member of the National Judicial Council, I would like to tell you that the Minister is a member of the National Judicial Council, not that he can... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: I said this, Senator.]] He is an additional member and is therefore obliged to attend the meetings of the National Judicial Council. And he has the same right to vote as the other 24 members. Second thing. Minister, from your experience... The experience with judges was different because they could apply to different courts, and now it's different, much better. I want to tell you that the year you're talking about was a long period of waiting and elimination... I disagree with you, it was a much shorter period. And the third case. If I could ask you to send me in writing the number of judges who have not been appointed by your President... The point is that the cause of these long-term trials and many complications in the judiciary, as we hear many times now, is just the fact that at some point several dozen judges A few dozen at the moment. They did not receive a nomination from the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u45	Is there a written answer, Minister? I'm asking because I have to give it to you and write it down. [[Shall I direct it directly, in the form of a statement...]] Because I realized from the answer that not really, so specifically... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: If you impose such a duty on me, then I will only be able to write to the President because I do not have that knowledge.]] There isn't. Exactly. [[Okay, I'll write it. I'm gonna make my own statement. Thank you.]] Because I have in my formula that the Minister has committed himself to giving an answer, and in his first statement, I don't think the Minister has committed himself... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: I did not commit myself because...]] I get it. I get it. So I'm not gonna say that formula. Okay. [[Okay, I'll write it. Thank you.]] There were no more questions? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: I don't think so.]] No. Good. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would ask for an exact written answer to the question, since there's been a blockage for graduates, future graduates of this judicial school. And how many judges are currently working at the Ministry? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Of course, we can provide and provide such information.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u47	Good. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] Thank you kindly. Wait a minute. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government, the Minister, has undertaken to give a written answer to the question of Marshal Borusewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I'm filing a motion in writing to your marshal to reject this bill. Of course, I'll try to justify it, if it doesn't work in 10 minutes, I'll use another five minutes. High Izbo, in the previous term we initiated in this House, I had the pleasure and the honour of being the rapporteur then. The amendment of the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I stress that it has indeed been difficult because the school has defended itself very much against strengthening the supervision of the Minister of Justice, the supervision introduced by this law, which is to be repealed. She was very defensive. And I would argue with Senator Rulewski about this autonomy, because it's not really a strict university... before that, the principal couldn't have been According to this old, previous law, canceled in fact never, because it was only possible when he committed the crime. In fact, the Minister could not influence his appeal, even if he did not carry out his tasks. And that's what we changed in the previous bill. We have strengthened the role of Minister, but to the extent that this is really necessary for proper supervision. What else did we do? Back then, the school was defending itself. We have introduced what is again emphasized here, in my opinion unnecessary, namely that we train staff there. We introduced into this law, and I was surprised that the school management was against it at the time, and she said that it would lower her rank, because we thought it was the opposite of the principle that the school trains judges and prosecutors, as well as supervises the training of judicial and prosecutors. The school oversees the program, organizes recruitment, organizes exams. Yes, this is the model we adopted, considering that the best possible way to raise a young judge, a young student, is to contact a student with a master, or patron in court. That is why we have given these young people a guarantee, we have given them judicial jobs and jobs in the prosecutor's office to shape their personality, mentality and approach to the future profession in court. This was mentioned even during the previous term of office and before. There were even such words that we broke up with the school of cadets, i.e. the cadets who had the minister over themselves and who felt administrative and executive power over themselves. That is the difference, ladies and gentlemen, because the judiciary is to be independent and independent. It is about raising, even mentally, in a sense of independence, with direct contact with the patron, not with the headmaster of the school, who is the master and God, and who, according to this law, is yet to guarantee further work. That's actually going to be in the direction of subjugating this young adept executive authority. And we meant, among other things. It's just to break it off, so there's no... Because the Minister says that the Minister appoints and ends his role, but I would like to remind you that many constitutionalists... Senator Cichoń, who asked about this today, was also involved, but this was not even about the European context, but about the context of the ruling of our Constitutional Court. And we were looking for a solution. We also held conferences in the Senate on the model of access to the judicial profession and decided that we were restoring assesura. As a result of this conference, President Komorowski submitted a legislative initiative to restore assesura, but a constitutional assesura, such an assesura, in line with the justification of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was to have two basic features. It was about independence, even nomination, from the minister, the National Judicial Council and the President for a certain period of time... This is what he talked about in many conferences himself sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, who considered the judge's institution for rehearsal. There was a speech. And we've been thinking about that name. It's about the subjugation, because it's also an old Polish name, or an asessor, etc., etc. But the idea was that, first, what was just the subject of an appeal, which was also accepted by the European Court, should not be dependent on the minister. Secondly, we have excluded the most difficult cases from the case law of the asessor, which requires experience, that is, the use of detention, because on this canvas it was a judgment, so it must be done by an experienced judge, because there is no file, does not carry out evidence proceedings, and bankruptcy. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the event of bankruptcy, the judge very often decides on millions of zlotys, while in the district court we have a limit of property due to the value of the subject matter of the dispute. And it made sense. One of the last laws If not the last one that President Komorowski signed for his office, there was this law on the restoration of assesura. What's going on? There is no bill, sir, and it is expected what the senators and Marshal Borusewicz rightly asked here, that the bill is blocked because of the new future model. But it's blocking itself, ladies and gentlemen, including the entire justice system. It's not just 300 jobs, it's 500 jobs. I'll explain it in a simple way. You were right to say to the Minister that this isn't just about the job of a district court. Because as far as the district court is concerned, there's an opening in the district court, if there's an appeal, then there's a discharge in the district court, and it's all going up, and there's more openings in the district court right now when we're promoted to higher levels of justice. There are 500 blocked jobs, ladies and gentlemen. And it is criticised by the judiciary that it is inefficient, doing nothing in terms of simplifying the procedure and deepening this crisis. This action is absolutely anti-Citizenish to say. Because it's a citizen who's waiting for a sentence and can't wait, and the judges are burdened. Because, Minister, the delegation... But he's the one who leaves cases in district court if he's going to district court. The judge has a limited opportunity to handle matters. So that the balance generally lacks these jobs and nothing can replace them. Now, ladies and gentlemen, regarding this allegation that the funds are wasted, because not everyone is going to the judiciary, and the budget is spent... Nothing's more wrong, Minister. First of all, lawyers are not doctors, lawyers learn Polish law and can only work in Poland. Are we forgetting that an educated lawyer, a lawyer who isn't in court, is a factor of justice and its level... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Ten minutes.]] ...also affects the level of justice. Mr. Marshal, I'd like another five minutes. [[There you go.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u49	Senator Zdrojewska has a voice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u50	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! My esteemed colleague, Senator Zientarski, has presented us with the entire history of the changes in the justice system that have taken place in recent years, among others. in the context of this school of assessors, etc., and he explained to us how the system had been built, which so far existed, and how it looked historic. I, in turn, would like to draw the attention of the senators, especially those of the governing camp, to what we are actually led by these successive laws, which concern changes in the justice system. And before the vote I will, of course, vote against I ask you to consider whether you have gone too far in such thoughts as to put a very large authority in the hands of one man, minister. And those other... And we're about to get the KRS bill, completely outrageous. Should we allow it, us, as Senate? In fact, Minister Ziobro... because this is a bill made by one man, under one man, under one minister, which we have right now. Any formation that comes to power as the next will have to change all this for various reasons: because of unconstitutionality, and above all because this law is ruining the threefold division of power. And he's just a very good example of showing intent, showing you how you do it. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps not all have read the comparative material which shows all these changes, but the Minister of Justice will have de facto the full power over the school, i.e. he will appoint a school board, accept the budget, maybe even object to the appointment of a lecturer. So that makes the minister de facto educates and then appoints an asessor to work because he has an influence, de facto entrusts the duties of a judge, but also receives the vow. Besides, we are taking over the prerogatives of the President here, and we have already pointed this out in our statements. What does that de facto mean? The first connection to this school and the way it's done... I'm talking to the PiS because he's your coalitioner and I suspect It's already a strict political statement. The fact that you are obliged to undergo these changes because of the value, the sustainability of the coalition. But please bear in mind that we are giving enormous power to one man and yet we are risking the fact that these laws are unconstitutional and, as I said, break the three divisions of power. The first question that this school has to do with 'Cause we're actually talking about a piece. It's come to me... You have one more minister who follows, consistently, the bill behind the bill, ruining a system and introducing a new one. This, of course, is Minister Macierewicz. And that's where we're dealing with similar behavior. And here, too, we have the urge to create a staff forge for Minister Ziobra. He's about to appoint these asses to these long-standing places. And he will also be able to shape them in his own way. It's going to be Minister Ziobra's staff forge. Is that what we expect? Is that what the Senate expects? Is that what society expects from the justice system? Such a strong power and such a significant weakening of the courts and judges and the transfer of power into the hands of the Minister of Justice? I'll leave you to consider all the things I've been saying. Should we go that far? I don't think so. The ruling option has already made a mistake in voting for some solutions, not making adjustments and looking at things so uncritically. You will be responsible for this. It'll be reprimanded to you in your next term of office. Officials and ministers who are currently working in the judiciary will have to explain this to their professors, to judges, to their environment, but also to society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u51	Thank you, Senator. Now you will speak again, Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u52	I would like to discuss two more points in my speech, so complementary. The first point is the role of the National Judicial Council, which, I say, is left to the law. The National Judicial Council is constitutionally responsible for the shape of the judiciary in the context of its independence, independence. National Judicial Council by competition, given a number of criteria... These are criteria for diploma, application opinions, judge's or prosecutor's exams, as well as for referenda' opinions by visiting judges. ..and environmental opinions. There are many factors here and they are taken into account as a whole. But asesura... that's why. An assesura was introduced so that there would not be what is written in this law, i.e. the automation of employment. Asesura, which should be temporary and not...as it is in this Act Unlimited, intended to be a trial period. Because the best graduates... We saw it as members of the National Judicial Council. I've had the pleasure of working eight years at the National Judicial Council. We've seen that the best graduates, theorists often don't stand the pressure of being a judge in the courtroom. And they just don't work. That's what assesura is for. The assailant is then judged as a judge. Of course, there's footage from the trial. It is not only the level of case law that counts, but also the culture in the courtroom. And we see that the given... After all, the point is that judges should be the best, those who are really fit for this role, very hard and responsible. That's what the assesura was for. And right now, it's just supposed to be an automatic transition period. There is also a preference for graduates with very narrow access when it comes to other professions. I mean, seven years... Even in the Senate there are people, excellent legislators who have a judge's exam. Maybe in ten years they'd like to be judges. And they'd be excellent judges. Except according to this bill, they couldn't be them anymore. Unless they sign up for a lawyer and... But not everyone has to. Here's an example. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a situation in connection with this law that the National Judicial Council will not only not judge the assessor for his suitability for the profession, but will not actually be able to really... Here it was generously given to the National Judicial Council to object, but please see how sneaky it was given 30 days, while the National Judicial Council sets a meeting every 30 days. It lasts for a few days, but the Council sits on a monthly basis. How can it be, given that there will be a dozen or even a few hundred, because such a throw can happen... What in such a case will the National Judicial Council be able to do? So this check is supposed to be illusory, just funny. And it's written in this bill, ladies and gentlemen. I want to make you aware that the Minister decides everything. It's a good thing there's a contest, it's a good thing the best... a judge's job isn't just about prestige. It's a permanent allowance, it's a possibility to go to rest. The lawyer doesn't have that luxury, and if he gets sick, and he doesn't get his savings, then, ladies and gentlemen, he may have trouble with his existence. With Senator Shark, we had a lot of cases in our last term of office of judges who got sick at a young age, at the age of 40, maybe less... [[Time's up.]] ...and went to rest. It's a very attractive profession, and that's why there's so many people willing. But it is to be the best of the best, chosen without preference and properly evaluated in practice through an assesura, which is to be a real test of their work, accepted by the National Council of Courts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u53	Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When the highly respected Senator Zientarski, the doctor, the expert on the problem and the excellent lawyer mentioned that he would argue with my statement concerning the intervention of administrative authorities in the autonomy of the university, this must have caused my amazement, because expressing this kind of opinion is water for the mill when it comes to the administrative drives of the Minister. I was not referring to the past, to the law that the High Senate passed in the previous term. As I remember, I voted, as did Senator Zientarski, in favour of ordering this subordinate, this possible influence of the administrative authorities. I'll remind you of a scene from the committee meeting the day before yesterday. Well, the Minister began his speech by saying that this was not a new law, but the execution of a delegation that had previously given the Senate the right to act this year as if it had been the act that the Senate had previously passed. Well, that's a deep lie. When I used a thought shortcut in asking that it was interference in autonomy, I understood it so that... I took into account in my statement the position of the National Judicial Council, but also the legislative department of the Senate, which made the accusations, I would say, even more precise than the National Judicial Council and even more powerful, because it was formulated on the basis of the doctrines that the Constitutional Tribunal had previously built. I think the Ministry admitted that it didn't read it. Maybe it wasn't expertise, but... And what's in that charge? I understand that this school is not a school within the meaning of the Higher Education Act. Because the Law on Higher Education concerns universities that carry out research work, the national school does not conduct research work and therefore, of course, there can be no full autonomy. However, I would like to point out that state interference in any university has and should take place, but wherever its general principles are outlined. This is, of course, a participation in the nomination of the head, the rector, the director or the chancellor, interference where the budget is concerned, where it is about commissioning or placing tasks in terms of quantity rather than quality. And here it turns out that this interference in the so-called. autonomy, let's say, is far-reaching. What's it about? Not just the appointment of the director, but the appointment of his term of office, even shortening his term of office, which is already an incomprehensible phenomenon for the whole world. If you talk about your term of office, then you can shorten it or extend it, then you don't talk about your term of office anymore. Next, there is interference with the programming board, Mr. Senator Zientarski, so not only in the quantitative indicators of the university's functioning, but in the programme. So it's a Yank school. That's what they say about yankers schools or, as you say, politely, about cadets schools that are created under a certain order of the Minister. The interference is still going further. In the competition committees to be accepted, supposedly in the competition, as the Minister enchanted us here, in a wide, open competition, recruitment. It turns out that yes, provided that this is done by a competition committee appointed or shaped by a minister. More, even the examination, let's say, in this wide nationwide trend of recruitment, is also carried out under the dictation of the committee... But who shapes it? Not those professors, not those law enforcement at this university, but those he appoints, even in his best faith, but an official. An official from Warsaw. At all, Minister, what is missing from this bill? That there's a permanent representation of the ministry at this school. Because she has so much work that she should be there every day, changing, issuing regulations. Well, of course, I have already said, I will not repeat that the national judicial council is the key to determining the shape, quality and work of this university, and it should belong to it in determining the shape, quality and independence of the judicial authority. In this very exam... And here a follow-up task has been assigned, the Minister appoints the graduate or even employs him, and the National Judicial Council may issue an opinion after time. That's why it's justified. How does this work out in the world in this kind of university and other, even in high school, which is... It is simply that the Minister has the right to interfere in the statutes of the university, but the university establishes this statute, and the Minister has the right to approve or reject it. Which does not mean that he has the right to shape this statute and issue it by his own regulation. That's it. That's it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u55	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Legislative proposals have been submitted, and Senator Zientarski has made such a proposal. The discussion is closed. As this proposal has been tabled, I ask: would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposal presented? Yeah, I can see that. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be very brief. The proposal concerns the rejection in its entirety of the draft submitted by the Government and presented to the High House by me. Of course, as a representative of the government, I would like to appeal to the High House to ensure that this proposal is not supported. I've answered all your senators' questions. Senator Zientarski claims, of course, that he has the right to do so. I respect that opinion. That this state of affairs, which was created as a result of the legislative work of the previous parliamentary term, was good and that it should be returned, i.e. nothing in fact changes, because everything worked great. But if it was so great, why did only 30 out of 165 graduates find recognition of the National Judicial Council? Why have the judges themselves repeatedly criticized the National Judicial Council for how it exercises its powers? I would like to remind you of the positions of the Przemyśl Jury meeting about 2 years ago or the Wrocław Appeals Assembly, the positions criticizing the personal decisions of the National Judicial Council. It didn't all come out of nowhere. The judges know perfectly well the practice of this system, which you defend with such enthusiasm Senator Zientarski, and they know that this is not a good practice. This is not a practice to continue. Social expectations are completely different. The expectations of those who know best how competition proceedings conducted by the National Judicial Council work in practice, the expectations of serial judges who do not understand why this and not another candidate finds recognition and why graduates of the national school do not find this recognition in principle, are such that something needs to be changed. We propose a change and justify it precisely, including from the constitutional and treaty side. And I appeal to the High House to give us a chance to make this change. Some of the charges that have been brought here are probably due to a far-reaching misunderstanding. It was said that the Minister has the right to object to a lecturer. Well, the minister has that right, the minister has other rights, except that these are all the powers that the minister has for a long time. And these powers did not disturb Senator Ziientarski or other representatives of this camp, when their formation had these powers, and they are beginning to disturb now. And here nothing changes, it's still the same. There are adjustments, but they're minor. The basic correction is that we give assesura to everyone, because everyone who passed the judge's exam deserves to be able to prove themselves. And between assesura and I become a lifetime judge is the decision of the National Judicial Council, which will eliminate those who fail. I'm pretty sure about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u57	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. It is contained in print No 351 and the committee's report In print No 351 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Lydia Staroń, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Joint Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the draft law amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. Both committees at the joint meeting on 20 April recognised the draft presented at first reading and request that this draft be adopted without amendments. And I'm going to say very briefly what this project is about. In fact, the project concerns the correction of the damage to the law or the lack of access to the same rights and opportunities for victims of traffic accidents. This applies to a very small group of people, but extremely disadvantaged. I can say that, in fact, this initiative, which finally found here recognition, which the Senate finally leaned over, was fought by a group of people who were hurt, among others. The disabled Mr. Tomasz Piesiecki in the room today. He was at every committee meeting, knocking on all the doors, including the ombudsman, and caused this problem to be noticed, and finally the real problem of poverty, poverty and harm to these people has been bowed down. The Ombudsman asked the Senate to take this initiative, the rule of law committee prepared it as an applicant and, as I said, the joint committees approved it by proposing and asking the High House to adopt such a solution without amendment. And in three sentences it looks like this. Guarantee sums that... Maybe like this. This project concerns the exhaustion of guarantee amounts in compulsory liability insurance. We know that insurance is mandatory. These guarantee sums have evolved differently over the years. The most hurtful and smallest were in the 1990s. I'll tell you what the relationship is more or less. In the 1990s it was PLN 720 thousand, and today it is EUR 5 million. Thus, in the case of persons who have been injured in accidents, it was known that after a few years of receiving their pensions very often these amounts will be exhausted and they will no longer be able to afford not only a normal life but also any treatment or rehabilitation. The scale, like I said, is really small. This is particularly true of those who, according to the representatives of the insurer, are 66 and, according to the reports we have tried to verify, twenty pairs. The record we have proposed, this is a record, I would say very limited, because committees do not create a rule for this. So this sum is going to be exhausted and for everyone it should be in force at the moment. This applies only to those for whom this amount has been exhausted before the date of entry into force of the legislation. Article 1 is added to the Act. 98b, which defines the group of these persons, also defines the three-year limitation period and the possibility of regression, i.e. the possibility of addressing the person who did the damage, by the insurer with a regression of the amount. It's such a very short description of what this project is about. In the assessment of the joint committees, the House's decision will be a decision which concerns an absolutely small group, but extremely hurt. That is why this solution should find recognition among senators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u59	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee. No questions. None of you are asking questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Minister Leszek Skiba is present. He's resigning. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? No one volunteered. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Andrzej Kaminski came forward for the discussion. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u60	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! During my Senator's activities so far, I have met many times with the stories of individual human dramas that have its origins in the absence of eliminating over the years the problem of exhaustion of OC insurance guarantee sums, and consequently In the absence of the funds necessary for the continuation of the operation of the victims, which is particularly severe in the case of personal injury benefits such as pensions or medical and rehabilitation costs. The limits of the guarantee amounts have been significantly increased, which was the result of Poland's membership in the European Union, but the problem of the exhaustion of the guarantee amounts in the case of contracts concluded in the 1990s remains. In view of the fact that the Court of Justice has indicated that the application of the Article is inadmissible. 3581 §3 of the Civil Code in the event of the exhaustion of the guarantee sum as well as the application of Article. 3571 of the Civil Code, I would like to stress the full legitimacy of legislative action to introduce legislation which, in the cases indicated above, will ensure that victims can continue to receive benefits despite the exhaustion of the guarantee sum. High Izbo, it is also worth pointing out here that ensuring continuity in the provision of benefits to victims is justified not only in the principle of equity and social relations, but also in the constitutionally guaranteed equality of all citizens towards the law and in the right to equal treatment by public authorities. Consequently, it should be assumed that this principle was infringed at the time of the introduction of the limit on liability of insurance undertakings in 1991, since only those injured before that date have continued to receive benefits due to the lack of limitation of liability of insurers through the introduction of a guarantee sum. As a result, the situation of those injured after the introduction of the guarantee amount is much more difficult than that of those injured in the previous period. High Izbo, having regard to the above, I believe that the direction of the changes resulting from the provisions of the bill under review is very well founded and deserves to be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u61	Thank you. There are no further speakers, participants in the discussion. Then I will close the discussion. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u62	Immediately after the adjournment of the session in room 176, a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions will be held on the proposals submitted to the Act amending the Act on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u63	Thank you. Dismissed until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 09 to 12 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u64	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: third reading of the draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. The second reading of this project took place at the thirty-nineth Senate meeting on 20 April 2017. Following the discussion, the Senate addressed the draft law to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion and to prepare an additional report on the matter. It is in print No 341 X. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to present an additional report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The joint committees, the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee and the Legislative Committee met and voted to propose to the High Senate that the bill be rejected. This was also supported by the government representative present at the meeting of the Joint Committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. I would now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committee, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present the proposals supported by the minority. [[Voices from the room: He's gone.]] There's no senator, that's okay. Will it? We won't wait, too many people are waiting for one person. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? Nobody. We proceed with the vote on the draft law amending the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments according to the order of the provisions of the draft in print No 341 X. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 26 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has rejected the draft law and has therefore concluded its proceedings in this case. We return to the second agenda: the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to Senator Print No 498 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1 and 3 should be voted on together. They adapt the law to the terminology used in the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 2 clarifies that the Minister responsible for Cultural Affairs and the Protection of National Heritage is also involved in fiscal offences and tax offences related to the restitution of cultural goods. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 4 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 provides the law with terminology consistency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] Amendments 6 and 7 should be voted on together. They are clearly defined. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] The amendments have been accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Fire Protection Act. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 490 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Yesterday, a meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration took place. At the meeting, the Commission considered the proposals submitted during the debate on the Law amending the Fire Protection Act and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal contained in point II, i.e. a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. The committee meeting also voted on a motion to reject a law which had not received a majority and four amendments which had also not been recognised and had not received a majority. These are proposals made and supported by a minority of committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Piotr Flork, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Security doesn't have party colors. Minister Jarosław Zieliński explained that he does not like green. But is it worth changing the good system that has been in operation for 20 years for political reasons? Is it worth fighting volunteer firefighters with state firefighters so to speak? Is it worth it? It's not worth it. Therefore, the proposal supported by a minority of committees is a proposal to reject this short amendment, which covers only 3 points. I would also like to refer to Amendment 4. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is particularly important because if you accept this law... Well, according to this amendment, in the article. 3 the words 'after 14 days from the date of publication' shall be replaced by 'from 1 January 2018.'. Ladies and gentlemen, as of the date of entry into force of the Law amending the Act, the Regulation in force will cease to apply. According to the legislative delegation, the Minister will issue a new regulation setting out how and how the appropriations are to be distributed. And the bill comes into force 14 days after publication. The Minister said it would be necessary to consult, because this is a new system, a new way of allocating resources, so of course it is impossible to do so within two weeks. So it would be right that in a year that is already going on, when money is either in or out, you could settle this money and move all these changes to the next financial year, that is, from 1 January. So I would like to draw your attention in particular to Amendment 4 and ask you to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I will exchange senators: Piotr Florek, Krzysztof Mróz, Piotr Zientarski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Waldemar Sługocki. No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous 2 proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on Senator Piotr Flork's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do not tell yourselves. Please report the results. 89 senators voted in favour, 30 against, 57 against, with 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] The motion to reject the law was rejected. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the bill, we proceed with the vote on Senator Krzysztof Mroz's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 30 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Fire Protection Act. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sports events, and in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions and are requesting the adoption of the law without amendments of Senate prints No 494 A and No 494 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the termination of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sports events, and in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985. We are returning to the fifth item on the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and handling during football and other sporting events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions and are requesting the adoption of the law without amendments of Senate prints No 495 A and No 495 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and handling during football and other sporting events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Commercial Companies Code, the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on the National Court Register. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of the law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Commercial Companies Code, the Civil Procedure Code and the National Court Register Act. We return to the examination of the seventh item of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of the law without amendments of Senate print No 489 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 86 were against, 1 was against. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law on claims for damages caused by a breach of competition law. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments of the Senate Print Nos 491 A and 491 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 87 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on claims for damages caused by a breach of competition law. We would like to return to the discussion of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the law "Postal Law." The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 487 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law "Postal Law." We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. This report can be found in print No 505 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u71	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions at its meeting today examined the proposals made during the debate on 17 May on the Law amending the Law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws and asks for the Act to be adopted without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. Do Senator Piotr Zientarski or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Robert Mammoth can speak. Yes, Senator? Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u73	I just... [[It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. There you go.]] I support the motion to reject... [[Your motion.]] ... his motion to reject the law, arguing that the current law fulfils all the principles concerning proper training and proper access to the judicial profession.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u74	I understand, thank you. Senator Mammoths. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u75	I would like to ask the senators to adopt the bill without any amendments. This is another way for the assesors to get to the title of judge and prosecutor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u76	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on Senator Piotr Ziientarski's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 89 senators voted, 29 for, 57 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 89 senators voted, 57 for, 30 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the Government of General Courts and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 351 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Lydia Staroń to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 88 were in favour, one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a bill amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund Guarantee and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances and adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorised Senator Lydia Staroń to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. I would remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a draft law in print No 366 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Jan Rulewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Jan Rulewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. There's no Vice Marshal. May I have the Vice Marshal, please? Because I have to leave. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the first 40 sitting of the Senate has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the order of the next meeting, scheduled for 31 May and 1 June, will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u77	Oh, and there's my pen. [[He stayed here yesterday.]] Thank you very much. No one volunteered? [[For what?]] To make statements. [[No, no, it's just gonna be...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Adam, get the bell.]] [[Sound of the bell]] Quiet, please! Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? [[Yes.]] Mr. Marshal Borowski. [[There's a list.]] [[No, there's a list here.]] Sorry, there's a list already. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. [[There's another list.]] [[Senator Rotnicka is the first.]] Senator Rotnicka. [[Mr. Marshal will be second.]] Mr. Marshal will be second.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u78	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The declaration is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, and concerns the protection of the species of birds nesting in cities, in particular the berries. Dear Minister, in Poland for several years there has been warming, thermomodernization of buildings, which reduces energy consumption and contributes to environmental protection. However, in all the positive aspects of thermomodernization, nests and chicks of legally protected birds, such as extremely useful wildebeests, are destroyed in violation of the law. In defense of these animals, there are many people who are vulnerable to animal harm and who refuse to violate the law. In some cases endangered habitats can be rescued, but these are local individual activities, while the scale of damage to the habitats of hedgehogs is enormous and inevitably leads to ecological imbalances across the country. The Senate Environment Committee has been aware of this problem for several years and has been actively involved in it. As a result of a number of discussions on 5 March 2013, i.e. during that term, it produced a document on the conservation of habitats and nests of birds nesting in buildings, in which it asked the state authorities to take action to protect birds. Unfortunately, we're still getting signals that the situation of the hedgehogs is very bad. Their habitats are still being destroyed, and the chicks are being killed. According to those who fight socially for the protection of these birds, the problem is that investors and thermomodernisation contractors only pay attention to the provisions contained in the Act to promote thermomodernisation and renovation, disregarding other provisions guaranteeing protection for hedgehogs. The only way to force investors and contractors to stop the extermination of these birds is, in the opinion of the deputies, to enter into the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations of records, which would directly and unambiguously provide that protection of protected birds' habitats should be taken care of when carrying out thermomodernisation. The problem, which is to narrow down the law in force in the performance of thermomodernization works only to the provisions of the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations, leads to the destruction of these birds. The lack of a broader view of the issue of conservation of nature during thermomodernization unfortunately is also a domain of institutions subordinate to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. It is clearly visible, among others. in the case of the Institute of Construction Technology. In its correspondence with the Institute, the question why in its studies completely ignores the problem of habitats of protected birds and bats, the Institute replied as follows: because this is not in the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. Therefore, I ask the Minister to indicate the appropriate place in the Act to promote thermomodernisation and renovations to include a record of the obligation to protect habitats and breeding birds of protected species nesting in buildings. The practice clearly shows that the present absence of such a provision in this law contributes to the destruction of the hedgehogs. This is a statement made on behalf of me and Senator Peter Flork. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u80	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The statement is addressed to the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Development and Finance, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, On 3 March this year, I made a statement to you on the situation in which the inhabitants of the Red Jarzbin village were located in Warsaw Targówek and several other settlements in the area. They could not obtain ownership of the land for which they paid the full amount for a special account at the SK Bank in Wołomin, which unfortunately fell. In response of 20 March of this year Thank you for your quick response, by the way. Undersecretary of State, Mr Andrzej Nowak informed me that the Ministry of Finance is looking for a solution to this problem and for this purpose asked the Ministry of Justice for a legal opinion on the case. This opinion was to reach the Ministry of Finance at the earliest at the beginning of April. I hope that, due to the considerable passage of time since the announced date of the opinion, this document is already in the possession of the Ministry of Finance. I therefore ask you kindly to inform me of the content of this opinion, preferably in the form of a copy of it to me. Sincerely.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Now please take the floor of Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of Senator Jerzy Wcisła and his own, as well as the entire group of senators, I would like to say that on 1 May 2017 a revised list of medicines refunded came into force. Changes in the payment of medicines by the patient included: immunosuppressants. The price increases for these drugs range from tens to several thousand percent. Such a level of raise is unacceptable. Post-transplant recipients must take immunosuppressive medication for the rest of their life or life. Very often this applies to people who are still suffering from other diseases and those who are unable to work; many of them require constant care. The cost of drugs that sustain the functioning of organs will increase for them from several dozens to several hundred, to 1 thousand PLN per month or more. This level of increases in many cases condemns persons who have undergone organ transplantation operations and require continued treatment, to discontinue this treatment, and consequently I'm gonna die. This is a failure of the idea of transplant, in which transplant surgery is only the beginning of treatment, not the cure. In most European Union countries, purchases of immunosuppressive medicines are fully or to a very large extent covered by the State. In Poland there are about 15 thousand people with a transplanted organ. On behalf of these people, we call for the recovery of previous prices of immunosuppressive drugs or the cost of maintaining organ function after transplantation to be fully refunded. We also ask for information on the grounds on which a change in the list of refunded medicines was based, which led to such a drastic increase in the cost of the necessary treatment. Does the Minister take into account that a decision limiting the refund on immunosuppressive drugs for many patients means closing the possibility of maintaining post-transplant organ function, which could result in the loss of life of these patients? That's the statement we're making. We encourage all senators to support the process of changing the list of medicines reimbursed as soon as possible, because we are causing enormous harm to people after transplants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Jackowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two statements. The first statement is addressed to the Minister of National Education. According to recent data, our country's economy is growing faster and faster. For this trend to be maintained, the flow of skilled workers must be ensured. This is a big problem because the current vocational education system is inadequate to the needs of entrepreneurs. Studies show that more than 500 000 vocational graduates are not prepared to enter today's labour market. Is the Ministry therefore working on changing the vocational education system? Is the training of young people with a specific enterprise envisaged? The second statement is addressed to the first President of the Supreme Court. I ask you kindly to inform me how many of the Supreme Court judges currently sitting in the Supreme Court have already been judges in the period of the Polish People's Republic. What courts did they sit in, and what departments? In the event that there are no relevant statistics in the Supreme Court, I would ask you to draw up an appropriate statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Szymanski. [[Cell phone signal]] Please turn off your cell phone.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to make a statement on behalf of the 28 senators on the occasion of Professor Włodzimierz Fijałkowski's 100th anniversary of his birth on 4 June 2017, an outstanding doctor, a humanist, a scholar, a socialist, who was a personal model for young generations, not only professionally associated with medicine. As senators of the Republic of Poland, we wish to express our deepest respect for its outstanding achievements. Professor Włodzimierz Fijałkowski was born on 4 June 1917 in Bobrniki nad Wisła. He died on 15 February 2003 in Łódź. He came from a patriotic family of the noble coat of arms of Ślebrowron, based on the motto of God and Homeland, from which he came, among others. Archbishop Antoni Melchior Fijałkowski, Warsaw Metropolitan. His brothers, 2 legionaries, General Czesław Mlot-Fijałkowski and Stefan Fijałkowski, and 2 cavalrymen, Kajetan and Gracian-Bojar Fijałkowski, were honored for fighting in defense of the country with numerous awards, among others. The crosses of the Order of Virtuti Militari. Włodzimierz Fijałkowski graduated from classical high school in Rypin. Since 1935, he studied medicine at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Warsaw as the faucet of the Podchoryżych School. He took part in the September campaign, then worked in a hospital for prisoners of war in Warsaw and since 1940 in a health centre in Klimonowo Sandomierz, continuing his studies in secret teaching in Warsaw. In 1943, he was arrested and imprisoned in Radom, then in Auschwitz-Birkenau camp and in Württemberg camps. From 1945 he served in the Polish Armed Forces in the West, finishing his medical studies as a lieutenant at the Polish Faculty of Medicine at the University of Edinburgh. In 1946 he returned to Poland. He received a medical degree at the University of Warsaw and worked as a doctor in hospitals in Gdańsk, Wrocław, Bystrica Kłodzka and since 1955 in Łódź. In 1949 he defended his doctorate in obstetrics. Dramatic war experiences were a profound inspiration for the later tireless defense of human life by the professor as a doctor, gynecologist and obstetrician. In 1956, when the Act on the admissibility of abortion entered into force, working as a doctor at the clinic and at the clinic, he in writing justified his refusal to send a woman to abortion: Okay, I'm gonna say no. For this attitude he was removed from work in the clinic and harassed. In 1966 he defended his habilitation, but the application for a docent at the medical academy was rejected because of opposition to abortion. In 1974, he was released from the medical academy for refusing abortion and for not raising young people in the socialist spirit. During the 'Solidarity' period in 1981, the professor was apologized for unjustified grounds for his dismissal and was returned to work, but in 1982 the decision to work was suspended again, and in 1992, when he was retired, the Medical Academy in Łódź gave him the title of Professor of Medicine. Professor of Medicine Włodzimierz Fijałkowski was an outstanding doctor, gynecologist, obstetrician, author of over 20 books and several hundred scientific and scientific articles in the field of medicine, ecology of procreation and family issues. He was a master of pen and word. His lectures, lectures, and publications were of great interest. Most of the books had a few renewals, despite the great effort, e.g. 200,000 copies. About 40 years of cooperation with one magazine addressed to mothers, Your Child. He wrote articles to him, led the column "Ginecologist advises. " He created the first birth school in Poland. He developed a Polish model of birthing school and implemented it throughout the country, training for several decades a very large number of professionals. He owes us the transfer of the idea of birth psychoprofile to Poland and its implementation in pre- and perinatal care, e.g. system: mother with child after birth. Thanks to the Professor's initiative, the first hospital births took place with the participation of the father and the practice of natural and family births was widespread. The professor developed a scientific basis for parenting in harmony with nature, ecology of procreation. He is the author of the 12-point combined organic procreation program, the natural planning of the family and the natural feeding of infants. In his publications and lectures he promoted preconception prevention and a new family model based on the so-called. a harmonised two-parenting. He addressed public health issues, among others. the importance of a lifestyle free of addictions and addictions. He was the forerunner of prenatal psychology in Poland, showing the beauty of the child's life before birth. The professor was a member of many scientific associations in Poland and abroad, performing numerous functions in them. In recognition of his contribution to the promotion of humanistic values in the field of medicine, he was appointed a member of the Pontifical Academy Pro Vita, the Association of Knights of the Order of Jasna Góra of God-parents and the Scientific Council of the Institute of John Paul II KUL. He received many awards and distinctions, among others. Kawalerski Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland, Kommandorski Cross of St. Grzegorz Wielki with Star, Badge of Soldiers of the National Army, Medal Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice, Medal of the Primate Medal of the Ministry for the Church and the Nation, Award of Merit for the City of Łódź and Award of the Scientific Association of KUL im. Father Idzie Radziszewski. It combines high professionalism with a deep ethos of man and scholar. In addition to his scientific work, he engaged in extensive organizational and social activities. He was a caring husband and father of four children. He was a committed member of the Focolari Movement for several decades. Pope John Paul II appreciated the professor very much, read his publications, and wrote a letter to the funeral ceremony in which he expressed his gratitude to God for the life and work of the professor. During the funeral talks Professor Włodzimierz Fiyałkowski was described as a steadfast man, the prophet of our time, the man of the epoch, the man who preceded the epoch, the man not of this land, and the model of a great man of Christian, doctor and Pole. After the death of the professor, many scientific conferences and meetings devoted to his life, activities and achievements were organized. In several cities of Poland his name was named streets, birth schools and clinics. His whole creation is characterized by deep humanism, infiltrated by Christian values. These values inspired the Professor's actions, created his attitudes in life and were the subject of particular care to put them into the awareness of the Polish society. The Professor's merits in this area are important and unambiguous. He was a great Pole, a doctor, a humanist, a scholar, a socialist, a Christian and a man, a personal model for young generations, not only related to medicine. This statement was signed by the senators: Michał Seweryński, Aleksander Szwed, Antoni Szymański, Bogusława Orzechowska, Rafał Śluszarz, Artur Warzocha, Jerzy Czerwiński, Dorota Czudowska, Andrzej Kamiński, Zdzisław Pupa, Krzysztof Marek Słoń, Marek Pęk, Grzegorz Pekkis, Michał Potoczny, Ryszard Majer, Jan Żaryn, Alicja Zając, Robert Adam Mamytkow, Małgorzata Kopiczko, Kazimierz Wiatr, Andrzej Stanisławek, Czesław Ryszka, Łukasz Mikołaczyk, Marek Martynowski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Maria Koc and Stanisław Gogacz. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. Madam President Sagatowska was the last to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Minister of Energy. Dear Minister, The local governments of Tarnobrzeg County in March and April adopted certain resolutions aimed at restoring the operation of the power district in Tarnobrzeg. Municipalities such as Gorzyce, Nowa Dęba or Baranów Sandomierski, driven by statements of residents, institutions and entrepreneurs, are fighting for the restoration of this energy region, because now, after the liquidation of this region, to Mielec or to Rzeszów, they often have more than 100 km or 60 km. There is no need to justify the difficulty for the residents themselves, institutions and entrepreneurs in terms of contacts, customer service. It is this distance that causes incredible trouble and difficulties. Energy district with its registered office in Tarnobrzeg at ul. Hospital 3 was operational until 31 December 2012. The decision to liquidate it was taken without any agreement with the local authorities, whose area was the area of operation of the area. The energy district with its seat in Tarnobrzeg until its liquidation included energy stations in Sandomierz, Tarnobrzeg and Nowa Dęba, serving many neighbouring municipalities, residents, institutions and entrepreneurs. Restoration of the energy region based in Tarnobrzeg will undoubtedly facilitate the handling of energy matters to citizens and institutions and entrepreneurs from the city of Tarnobrzeg and from neighbouring municipalities served until the area is closed down. Restoring the functioning of this energy region will bring tangible benefits, as it will affect the quality and speed of dealing with matters, and it will also benefit investments in the municipalities of Gorzyce, Nowa Dęba or, for example, Baranów Sandomierski and facilitate the daily life of their residents, as electricity supply cases can be handled in Tarnobrzeg, which is much closer to the town of Mielec or Rzeszów. I ask the Minister to examine and listen carefully to the voices of the people and institutions and to restore this region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-17-senat-41-2.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. In this way, we have exhausted the list of senators applied to make statements. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the first 40th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The first 40th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 13 minutes 16]]
