ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u1	Resume session. We are returning to the 16th agenda: the National Freedom Institute Act The Center for Civil Society Development. Welcome to the meeting of Prime Minister Piotr Gliński. Welcome to the Prime Minister. He will listen to our debate, he will also want to speak. Let's get back to the discussion. Who's speaking now? [[Senator Augustine.]] Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u2	Mr. Marshal! Minister... Excuse me, Prime Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I am very personally experiencing this debate because of my many years of involvement in the work of NGOs. There have been many important and valid words here, but a few are still missing, which is why I allow myself to appear. First of all, it is a good opportunity to talk very strongly about the importance of non-governmental organisations in democratic governance here in the Senate, which today also has eyes on the media. Since today's small bill raises such controversy, it is probably because we feel the importance of this issue. NGOs are an extremely important part of the democratic fabric of the country. It is not only a school of democracy, as I talked about during my report, but it is primarily a school of civic virtues in which you can learn practically cooperation, in which you can learn commitment, selflessness, work for the common good and its meaning. 'Cause if it's not in non-governmental organizations, where is it? When freedom came, there was an eruption in terms of the emergence of NGOs. It was visible how Poles are prepared to make the space of freedom useful for themselves and for the nearest environment. It is necessary today to look at the whole sector, to say that the great dream of Poles about freedom was not an abstract. It was deeply rooted in the hearts of Poles in the desire to act for the common good, for the benefit of other people. Today it must be said that NGOs are the most beautiful face of democracy, the face of freedom. This is our face. These important words are from the catalog of the simplest ones that always have to be spoken on such occasions. Because, ladies and gentlemen, those who engage in business have also developed this freedom, this area of freedom, but they have done it for profit. Those who developed the space of power did so for various reasons, but also for power and for money. And this is the sector. nonprofit, the sector of people who devote their time, their skills, give heart to things that they think are very important. That's why it's so important. And that's why we talked about it yesterday and today for so long. Because you have to take care of the treasure that NGOs are in a democratic country. And that is why we here, in the Senate, where the Local Government Act was born, felt that if the local government was not rooted deeper in the activities of NGOs, it would unfortunately be subject to various distortions. Non-governmental organisations are often the basis for the recruitment of people to self-government. This is where the Parliamentary Team for Cooperation with NGOs was established. We tried to do as much as possible for them, in cooperation with them. You've been running this team for years, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You could say we did a lot together for the organization. Ladies and gentlemen, as fundamental to the development of this sector of the law as the VAT Act on food donations, such as the amendment of the Public Collections Act, the Accounting Act, the petition law or an important amendment, which, I would say, we have already adopted here by way of a projection of the tape. In a moment, probably in 2 days, it will be 2 years, i.e. the amendment of the Associations Act, which greatly simplified the possibility of setting up associations, are only elements of the huge achievements of this team. Mr. Marshal, on your hands. And for all those who feel that we are building a model of a country in which power is at the service of citizens, does not want to subdue them, wants to encourage them, wants to help them... And this model of state here was built consistently, a participatory model, where NGOs actually had a decisive voice. A space of freedom that is essential for the development of NGOs... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, gentlemen of the Senators... ...it has been beautifully developed because citizens have a need to serve each other. Today's bill, which we're considering, is kind of a different order. This has already been seen in its preparation: not participation of organisations, but quasi-consultation, not real impact now and in the future, but reduction of this impact. This is part of the process of taking over the state and taking over freedom. I have said many times here, in the case of other laws concerning the judiciary, concerning the prosecution's office, that, in fact, citizens' rights are being seized, they are being robbed of freedom. The more a country, the less our freedom. And those who believe in the omnipotence of the state, let them always remember it. It is not that it is only small money, because this law already announces more, already announces the management of EU funds, Norwegian funds and others. This law opens the door to the management of programs that will be created. Ba, the FIO transforms itself into a program to enter into the article. 30, which allows you to manage your own money from programs. And the Minister tried to charm us here that it wasn't. So even if there's money, we suspect it's for the chosen, divided sector. And yet NGOs are of great importance for social inclusion... [[Mr. Senator, you're very welcome to proceed with the conclusion because there's less than a minute left.]] Thank you very much. [[There you go.]] I would like to stress that NGOs, if they are to develop, can only develop in terms of freedom. All that is a reduction in freedom is also the rubble of the third sector. And this tissue is very delicate, because freedom is a very delicate matter. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not allow ourselves to go beyond the standards of democratic and European society. It is not the dream of Poles to be a lonely island on which, isolated from NGOs, stands, also a lonely, institute so-called. freedom. This is not an organization's dream, this is not a Pole's dream. It's against our dreams. And finally, I'd like to say... [[Mr. Senator, because it's time...]] I'm putting it together, Mr. Marshal. [[Yeah, but that should be the punch line by now. We need to fit in 10 minutes.]] There's only one sentence I'd like to say. I come from a region where freedom as a result of the long-term resistance of NGOs led to victory in the longest war of modern Europe You know this movie... organizations, like the Pope... [[Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator...]] ...they don't have divisions, but they have great moral power... [[Mr. Senator, you're out of time, please proceed to conclusions.]] ...and that's why they're so important to all of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u3	Thank you very much. Don't exceed the time. That's why we have rules to be followed by everyone, even by senators from the Civic Platform. There you go... Who's next? Senator Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! First, I would like to address you from the opposition. Namely, as I heard your statements, this also confirms the last statement, Senator Augustine, I am trying to classify these statements somehow... They appear to me in a double way. Or you're using your obvious intelligence to apply the invective method more or less to the subject of the Senate debate and to introduce these invectives. And, of course, you have the right to do that, that's the choice you're using... But intelligence is given to use it sometimes for other purposes. And that's what Senator Augustine was trying to do now, but by choosing such opinions and arguments that I don't think they can be confronted with counter-arguments, because it's like we're talking about a little different reality. I'm not sure if I'm gonna show you this reality right now, but please try to accept my statement as not a foreword to the gulag that we're about to set up, or as a foreword to possible concentration camps, but as an attempt to define what it really is for. The National Freedom Institute is being introduced. After this introduction, I would like to speak now to the whole House and to the Prime Minister, because I am hoping to undermine my words or any support. Namely Poland and Poles have huge merits and traditions in the field of self-government. The Second Republic, even though it was a country which, after 1926, had drifted away, to put it mildly, from democracy... Because of our ability to be a sovereign nation, we were able to exercise that sovereignty. And NGOs before the war proved the existence of genuine democracy, whether they liked it or not. Unfortunately, it must be said that in connection with the post-peerel heritage we also have no comfort in today's reality, so that as Poland and Poles we can say about ourselves that we are only a sovereign nation and functioning only on the principles of democracy. The problem, the difference between us That's what I'm afraid of. That's how we define these two key words: "Supervisibility" and "democracy." Because self-government NGOs, which, of course, grow in the principle of subsidiarity, which limits the responsibilities of the state, but does not eliminate them, were not created in the 1990s and 2000s and were not functioning only on the basis of mapping the sovereignty of the nation, i.e. a mapping of what is actually being built up by Poles in public space. In this process of building public space at NGO level, the structures, the organisations and the huge finances behind it have entered very strongly. They did not support the system of democracy in Poland, only modeling or becoming more or less a collective engineer of Polish souls, they wanted this society, and they want to change to this day. And there is a very serious question, at least for the Pole: does the principle of subsidiarity exclude the right of state authorities to enter the area of non-governmental organisations, the area in which the principle of subsidiarity applies, and so to model finance to activate and support this non-governmental reality, which emerges from the genuine democratic will of the nation? It will be understood both intellectually, in an ideal sense, and in a territorial sense. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, the analysis shows even what you have raised here, so the issue of the Norwegian funds and the effect of these Norwegian funds, that is, the issue of the Foundation for them. Stefan Batory as the one who's committed and takes on the responsibility to spread funds after NGOs. Well, it's one of the key evidences in a case that says that there's an environment that doesn't want to define itself, but it's objectively like that, and it's hard to define it differently than it is left-wing, although there are names and functions that allow you to pretend that it's not left-handed, even though it's left-handed... Well, lying isn't the best recipe for sovereignty and democracy. This environment has been undoubtedly the creator of a project to transform Polish society for many years, not to become part of the democratic needs of Polish society. Does that mean the Batory Foundation has no right to exist? She has the right, she can exist, as much as possible, she'll exist for as long as she wants. The question is whether the Polish state, having its instruments, fulfils the function of supporting the sovereignty of the nation and democratisation or democracy, which in Poland we all need so much. Because this preamble, which the state so strongly wishes to challenge, is just an attempt to legitimize and name what in the Polish people is the key to understanding these two words: "suppliability" and "democracy." We're not a nation made up by you or anyone. We are a specific nation, and this particular nation is here. The Polish state supports the free and Christian ideals of citizens and local communities, including the tradition of Polish intelligence, independence tradition, national, religious, socialist tradition and the tradition of the folk movement, recognizing in them the continuation of centuries-old traditions of the Republic of Poland and thus protecting the rich heritage of the community of its free citizens. I don't understand how you can, ladies and gentlemen, not be part of this recital. I just don't understand. Well, we're all Poles, we all know the history of our nation, we know what democracy means, we know what supplantability means. Do you recognize that any of these words should not be the basis for supporting non-governmental organizations that fit into this need of the nation to be a nation, rather than some idea made up in various post-Marxist ideologies and heads of ideas for Polish society? For me, it's mostly amazing. It's amazing how much you're stuck in some intellectual mess that's theoretically smart. They're maybe smart. for the French, English, American society I don't know. Please find out. But apparently they don't grow out of Polish tradition. And the definitions of sovereignty and democracy are not dictionary definitions, they are definitions that are specific. I would also like to tell you that I have doubts about this law, Prime Minister. Two. Namely, the first... [[Mr. Senator, but it's 10 minutes...]] Do I have another minute? [[No, no, less than a minute. Half a minute.]] No? It's me, then. Half a minute. I'm the one who's gonna quickly articulate these two doubts. First... [[In half a minute or in the next five minutes.]] The first question is whether really the model of the institute is exactly what we would like as a Polish country, given something that is insanely important, that is, preventing officials from believing that they are not serving, but dictating. And that's the first short charge. I don't know if there's any doubt. And the second thing, I think, is much more serious. Namely, I would very, very much ask, Prime Minister, that we do not reverse the reality that was intellectually given to us in the 1990s, that the rights belong to minorities and the duties of the majority. So that we don't reverse it, so that it's not that the responsibilities would be for minorities... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but you're already way out of time.]] ...and the law for the majority. Because it's not that easy to reverse things. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator... Excuse me? [[Zdrojewska.]] Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome. Oh, hello, Minister Adam Lipinski. He's been here before, but I've only just noticed him now. The Secretary of State, the representative of the Government for Equal Treatment, the representative of the Government for Civil Society. Hello, Minister. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u6	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Prime Minister! Minister! I answer to Senator Żaryn: we sign... And thank you for those last words, for the two problems you've highlighted. I think you heard our discussion yesterday. I also thank you for having made some conclusions. I'm really grateful for that. Those are very important words. The ones you told me about. I also think that for the next two years or next year we will look at the hands of the authorities, we will look at whether we really respect minorities and most of them too. But I could reverse your question and ask why you're not using your intelligence. Except it's not a touch to Professor Zarin, it's rather to the authorities, to the authors of this project. Why don't you use your intelligence to create such laws? Why am I asking this question? It seems that by creating this preamble, adding it, even though it was completely unnecessary, you have only made enemies. This is another law in which you rule out a part of society, provoke a part of society. In my opinion, this is not wise and no authority should act in this way, i.e. expose yourself, colloquially speaking, to criticism. This provokes some kind of conclusion, and the conclusions concerning this recital were quite thoroughly discussed yesterday. We were talking axiology here. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of values... Why am I talking about this? I think Christian values are important to most of us, they are very close to us, but we have to remember. that they are not the only values. If there was no Christianity, there were other values. This is not seen in this construction presented in the preamble. Nor does it appear in one of the paragraphs that are contained in this law. The basic thing I would like to ask the Minister, the Prime Minister, is the National Civil Society Development Programme. Why doesn't this show exist? You promised him, and he's gone. It should be that this program is first created, and then the institute, but for two years you have only created some of the foundations of this institute. Let me put it this way: I even welcome the fact that civil society is of particular importance and that we will have a higher-level institution to deal with these issues. I think it's positive. We could take that as a good step. The fact that we're criticizing it, that we're skeptical about it. Besides, not only are we politicians, but above all non-governmental organisations based on fear and experience. Senator Żaryn also shared these concerns. We know how it's been. Well, not always, but the last two years have taught us how scandalous the grants are, how the government can create a foundation one day, and how much money the next day will be given to it. That's the kind of country you have with NGOs, that's your idea. Hence, the concern that if this institute arises, it will not be based on objective criteria. Please tell me when the National Civil Society Development Programme will be ready. When will you introduce him? I hope that you will draw conclusions by listening to the opposition and, above all, non-governmental organisations, and will create a programme that can serve us for years. And now politics and NGOs. I don't know why there's such a view. It's probably because of the media that's been spending a lot of time on this subject lately. The NGO is some kind of political organization. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, the Senators of the PiS are, above all, organisations that help sick people. These are organizations that exist after several decades, several decades. These are organizations that really stay out of politics. And this also applies to those organisations that are somewhere on the border, taking care of certain basic values, i.e. those organisations that deal with democracy, equality, etc., etc. And it is important to remember that there are also such organizations. You have to keep that in mind, and you have to be very careful not to exclude them. The word "exclusion" has been repeated. And that is what we are afraid of, as I say, not only because of what was in the preamble, but also because of the experience we have with your formation in terms of the approach to NGOs. Like I said, these parties... The party, the power lives in a different system, and this is also a slightly different system of values. Let us remember that what else is fighting in parties for certain matters, gaining power and presenting their programs, and what else is what NGOs do. You can't say there's an organization against the PiS, just like I've heard here, that they're organizations that hurt, and so on. No, it's not. Mr. Senator Żaryn, you use the word "nation" too much, and you don't use the word "social" enough. Civil society, perhaps you don't like it. It is not against the nation, civil society is focused on building certain values. First of all, this is the principle of subsidiarity. Non-governmental organisations are what is best in people, that is to say, helping, engaging. If you destroy this country, it will be very difficult. What are we afraid of? We are afraid that these NGOs will be like little boats circling the great cruisers, which are welcome by the ruling authorities. That's what we're afraid of. Because as far as NGOs are concerned, they are very close to the citizen. Power is always far away, whether it's government or some central institute. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the power of the state is also in its diversity. The strength of NGOs lies in diversity. And here's where you want it. This is what we feel after listening to various speeches, to create a society in its own image. And a society that suits your expectations. I repeat once again: all the societies that have developed, those in other countries, France or the United Kingdom, about which you speak with such slight disregard: because we have a better idea for this because we will come up with some great new system, the PiS will have a fantastic idea for NGOs... I doubt that very much. I don't even doubt it, but I'm sure it's wrong thinking. What I'm talking about is the launch of something that we're already seeing somewhere in the MON when it comes to granting a grant that's certain, so to speak, a transmission belt for our own. That's what it looks like. And if you don't make sure that... this can have fatal consequences for NGOs in Poland. Because in the short term, the NGO will lose. And their wealth... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Frost's voice:]] Mr. Senator, why don't you share the jokes with us? [[Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Senator, it's time to go. Ten seconds to go.]] That's right, that's the point. In the short term, NGOs will lose, and the sympathizers of the ruling party will gain, but in the long term they will lose everyone: and the state, and the citizens, and above all the recipients of NGO activity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u7	Thank you, Senator. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u8	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! This is an extremely important bill, and this is another space of social life that PiS is entering and trying to subdue. It's clear to me. The purpose of this bill is clear. I've heard these teachings about democracy, whether there's democracy. I've heard a variation of the concept of "nation" for many cases. I didn't hear the concept of society. This is a law that concerns non-governmental organisations, otherwise known as social organisations, because they function and arise because of the needs of people who wanted to set them up, or for needs that come out suddenly, even in the event of natural disasters, etc. For eight years, I have been president of the Parliamentary Cooperation Group with NGOs. This team was operating at the Senate because in the Senate we saw the importance of these organizations and the importance of supporting these organizations. I saw many people there who, unlike me, did not go towards politics, political activity, but decided to stop at the level of social activity. And I've seen how these people and some of the younger ones, who came after 1990, have been given the opportunity of normal social action. I have seen them try to make these organisations work their best, efficiently, and to cover those areas of life that are the most important to society. This subject of action of these organisations is expanding. We tried to improve the law, therefore there was an amendment to the Associations Act, very important, very important, which also introduced a very simplified way of activities of non-registered organisations or associations which did not have to register, which had to or should have been created for ad hoc matters and which so arise at the moment. We have simplified reporting, finance and we have gone in this direction to facilitate rather than subjugate, because non-governmental organisations governed by state institutions become state-owned organisations rather than non-governmental organisations. The concept of non-governmental means that they are independent of the government. And this sector needs to be supported, not subjugated. All the more reason for this bill, which has a very interesting name... Because I understand the Center for Civil Society Development. But the National Freedom Institute? "National" within the meaning of national democracy, "national" within the meaning of nationalism, and "the institution of freedom"? Some of us know who Orwell is, but those who did this bill don't seem to know because they use that kind of name. The Institute of Freedom, which subjugates and will impose in which direction we are going. And who will support freeness and Christian ideals, which will shape mature patriotism in the Polish state. It's in the preamble. But what does it mean to be mature? Maybe somebody will answer me. Why don't you tell me what mature patriotism is, Prime Minister Gliński? When he's mature, I think he's immature, too. And who's gonna judge that? Well, who's gonna judge that? I understand that I am the host of immature patriotism, and Prime Minister Gliński is the host of mature patriotism. With Senator Żarin. Come on, guys! Free and Christian ideals. And there may be organizations of freedom, but there may be non-Christian organizations. Well, there's a conjunction here, and there's a clear logical lecture, it has to be done together. Preamble in the Constitution. I will remind it, for many have forgotten what the preamble to our constitution says: 'All the citizens of the Republic, both believers in the God who is the source of truth, justice, goodness and beauty, as well as those who do not share this faith, and these universal values that originate from other sources, equal in rights and obligations to the common good... I repeat: equal in rights and obligations. This is the preamble. You are introducing the preamble to the ordinary law, which changes the preamble to the Constitution. How can you do that? I mean, now everything can, also by ordinary laws, change the constitution, and it's not the first time that happens. And this kind of fragment is included in the objectives. The State has a role to play in relation to a society that is bottom-up organizing and operating outside the government, but for the common good, the good of the state and the citizens. This role, however, is not to profil and programme the directions of its development in line with the ideology of the current parliamentary majority, and it is not to use it as an instrument of vassal and control. The aim of the State is to create conditions, equal legal, financial and political conditions conducive to civic activity and enabling citizens to engage in activities for the common good understood as active responsibility for the community, and for the nearest, local, and national, and European. And also global. Because the environment and resources... well, it's all about us living here and now. Thus, the state should create conditions and not try to run NGOs. There's basically everything in this preamble. There are contradictions... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm asking for conclusions, because it's time...]] I'm almost done. And there's no principle of subsidiarity. Mr. Marshal, what's the target? And who is the true Polish civil society? It is you who are the true Polish civil society that the Prime Minister of Gliński addresses the supporters of the Polish Gazeta Clubs expressing support for the government at the Presidential Palace on 18 December in Warsaw. The purpose of this law is to support the organisation. But what is it? No, Minister Kolarski at the conference in KPRM in March 2016 listed them directly: Movement of Election Control, created by PiS, Clubs of Polish Gazeta, Family of Radio Maryja, Solidarni 2010... And this is civil society... [[Mr. Marshal, please...]] ...your civil society that you want to support? Congratulations. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This is the Prime Minister. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! I have now asked for a vote because, unfortunately, my duties are about to make me run away because of the various meetings I had to cancel in connection with today's debate. However, I am pleased to say these few words, because both yesterday's debate I listened to, from which I have a relationship, and today's, points to very many misunderstandings. I don't know, I don't want to talk about bad will, but there's this weird attitude that's full of innuendo. So, Mr. Marshal, I was very sorry that I had to listen here to the bangs of your marshal, who is looking at some terrible reasons for filing, proceding this bill. This law is precisely for civil society. This is a bill prepared, among others. by me, by Minister Lipinski, by Dr Kaczmarczyk. We've all been working in non-governmental organizations for decades, all three of us, and there's the back of the people who've been preparing this. For many years, since the 1970s, since the SKS, I have been active in NGOs, I have created or co-created this sector, which is currently functioning, including its legislative structures. The first outline of this reform was published in the Third Sector. This is a letter from NGOs. If any of you don't know, I'm showing you. The letter published by one of the institutes, think tanks, which is most likely not related to my political option, but that is not relevant. Yes, many NGOs, even though they are theoretically apolitical, are immersed in politics. And there, in this letter, it was described in the first outline, and then, 3 years ago, it was transferred to the political party program Law and Justice. You can read this. After that, it was further, well, worked, clarified and presented in the form of a law through a team of people who worked on it, a small team. All these people come from the community of NGOs. What was the main reason for this change, this reform and this law? It was that democracy needs an efficient civil society, and in Poland civil society is weak. For 27 years, changes and reforms have been weak, the weakest in Europe according to all indicators, both quantitative and qualitative. Social capital in Poland is the weakest. We're quantitatively proportional, as a country... We're the weakest. This is partly due to our history, of course, but we also need to take responsibility for the fact that we have not accelerated changes in this area for 27 years. And in immature democracies... And we're still an immature democracy, because we've only been building it for twenty-six years, we're a democracy with little democratic traditions. Of course, we had democratic traditions and the Republic of Poland, but they were of a different kind. We have a lot of catching up to do. Yes, democracy must be based on an efficient civil society. And this society is full of deficits. Not only did I work in NGOs for several decades, but I also did analysis as a sociologist, maybe as one of the first sociologists. I worked for many years at the science lab that did this. And the diagnosis of the state of civil society is obvious, including its deficits. I can mention these deficits: grantosis, commercialisation, governmentisation, which is a very strong dependence on state and local government, business dependence, and many others, also oligarchisation, i.e. combining elites that are contrary to what is downstairs... And that's why. The bill you are talking about, prepared for six or seven years, unfortunately was criticised by small, local, weaker organizations, because it was not done for them unfortunately. And these deficits caused, among others. that we were thinking about reform, about the need for reform. Yes, the role of the state is included in this reform. As all reforms in Poland are carried out by the state I hope that they are, by the institutions of the state, those democratically elected Yeah, and that's it. And there's no question of omnipotence here. To date, this sector has also been controlled by the State in terms of public funds. It was the Minister who made the decisions, including on the composition of the public benefit council and on how public funds were distributed, in other ministries as well. This law does not affect the issues of other departments, it only transfers the competences of the Ministry of Labour Now the Ministry of the Family It's another place in the government. And that's all he does. Why is he doing this? Because that's the logic of civil society. There's no reason for cultural or environmental organisations to be directed... Yeah, it's headed, because it's the politicians in this ministry, the Ministry of Labour, they're running the department. And we moved it to a central institution. This is the idea, because civil society concerns all areas, all resorts. This law does not regulate what happens in individual resorts. We need to focus on something. Diversity is strength, value There were also such voices here, and we all agree on that. The notabene relationship between civil society and the people of Szacki, because such sociologists wrote about it. It's obvious. There are no well-functioning civil societies without this national stick, because it would all fall apart. Of course, you can wipe your mouth with the concept of "nation," but it is so that without a nation we do not exist, also civil society does not exist. There is a utopia of European civil society, a global civil society... But this is a utopia, which is often used as an ideological baton to whack people who have different views on this subject. Now a few words about the principles of this reform. As I said, this is primarily a transfer of competence. What else is... Yeah, adding political rank. The point is that civil society activists, even those who do not agree with this reform, finally have a greater impact on the political decision. They have always been that customer at the end and have lost to the political, business and all other stronger players in Polish democracy. Establishment of this Committee This is a constitutional institution, please look at the Polish Constitution It gives social activists, civil society activists, the opportunity to better, more effectively assert their rights, their interests. And that's the second shift. The third change is linked to the active role of the State. She's been there so far. It is not true that we are suddenly trying to introduce the omnipotence of the state that the officials are taking over something. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Because it's supporting, it's creating conditions, not deciding for organizations whether they want to do something or not. How do officials do that? Very different. We had very different authorities in Poland Some did it honestly and others turned it politically. Look at us, look at our hands, look at what we're going to do. That's what you're here for. Anyway, I can see that you're looking quite meticulously, and you're thundering hard here. But this is your role, this is normal in democracy. It's not taking over civil society. It's just insinuating and forging. But it is creating conditions for this sector to function, better conditions, with more public funding. We've already managed to get more money than anyone else who may have been able to do it for many years. It's creating conditions. [[Where's the money coming from?]] I don't know who made that remark... [[Senator...]] After all, everyone who knows the laws and knows the situation knows that. How? No, among others. From the bill... [[Voice from the room: Don't steal.]] ...gambling. As we calculate, for the sector this will be an additional approximately 40 million. We also believe that there was a question about the programme The Polish State should be responsible for proposing certain priority programmes, as is the case in other sectors, e.g. in science. Right? Not only do grants be distributed, but also certain grants or directions are ordered. And we're ordering. If you're against it, say so. The Corps of Solidarity, which is the development of volunteering in Poland, is this something political? Is that a bad thing? Civic Dialogue Council, Folk Universities... These are programs that are almost ready right now. We will promote and develop them. Another issue is support for the local media, because we all know that they are generally subordinated at local level either to business or to local governments, and they are not civic, independent and free. So we think there should be a special path, a special support path for think tanks and for security organizations, i.e. so-called. Watchdogs. Why? Because they're weak. And why are they weak? Because there are stronger sectors that for 27 years didn't want anyone to really control them. And despite the Batory Foundation program... There's a director here, Mrs. Ewa Kulik, who knows that this program is still limited. After all, we do not have good watchdogs that operate in almost every municipality and box on equal terms with stronger players. We don't. And it's not your fault. On the contrary. Actually, it is a great credit to the Batory Foundation that this program, including the anti-corruption program, was developing. We can assess whether he acted well enough or whether he had the potential for wider action, but we know that the deficit on these issues is. If there was a strong civil society, we wouldn't have the corruption scandals we had. If we had a strong consumer movement, maybe, I don't know, even with Amber Gold, you could win because someone would notice and be strong enough to fight this... Because the state was, as you remember... Well, we weren't running this country then. [[Weak.]] [[Stone poop.]] Weak. He raised his hands up, and he declared it, because Prime Minister Tusk said that the state should not interfere. Well, you weren't interfering. It wasn't the only thing that didn't get in the way. The reprivatization affair in Warsaw, which everyone in Warsaw had known about for several years, was not interfered either. We were too weak. Civil society was also too weak. The opposition was too weak to react, and civil society was too weak. Although later, at the end, the truth, in fact, one of the associations fought out that this issue had found the right support, but also the political change in Poland made it possible. So that's what this reform is for. To make this society a better place. And if it works well, it's up to all of us. And you're here to control us. Preamble. Mr. Marshal, you're referring to logic. It is evident to me that this is about freedom and Christian roots. Of course, it can be read with bad will. In this preamble there is everything, there is also socialism within the meaning of PPS. And come to it with good will. The preamble is wider. than just the one paragraph you're quoting. This is the preamble that I think covers all the ideological and axiological currents. In fact, it is not written in the so-called language. Today's European, but I think it's written in the right language, in a language that... [[In Polish.]] ... corresponds to the Polish identity. And there are also, if anyone wants to, all the axiological novelties that, as part of the definition of freedom... The bottom-up initiatives find their place here. As for the absence of a program, I already told you. It has to be that, first of all, the bill can't... I think it's Mrs. Zdanowska... Excuse me, I think Senator Zdrojewska was talking about this. The Act cannot propose a programme It's true, isn't it? But the program is being created in parallel at the moment. The institute will be set up, and I think the whole program will be created within six months. And as I said, the work is very advanced, it's been going on for months, it's run by non-governmental activists, and that, fortunately, is a large group. Although, as I said, we are quite weak in European statistics, there are thousands of dedicated, specialised, professional people who are doing a lot for public benefit, and some of these people are working with us or even working on the programmes we are talking about. Generally, the relationship between the state and civil society will not change. This will continue to be the relationship whereby public funds will be divided into thousands of bottom-up initiatives, including those whose creators have so far felt excluded. For years, at least since I became publicly known as the politician of a party, I have been approached by organizations that felt strangely excluded from the functioning system. And you must accept this as a true thesis. Well, it was. I don't know if it's better now if the exclusion goes the other way. I hope it doesn't, but I'm asking you to refrain from counterfeiting and insinuation. This bill has nothing to do with state control. There is no record here that it is the official who takes the grassroots citizens' initiatives and replaces non-governmental organisations. In turn, there are provisions that extend the scope of State support to civil society. Someone was talking about quasi-consultation. I think Senator Augustine mentioned that we want to reduce the impact of NGOs. The consultation was referred to several times. This consultation lasted for six weeks, much longer than required. 200 comments were made and more than a thousand people, several hundred organisations, participated. In addition to these six-week consultations, there were also many other meetings. I specifically organized three media breakfasts involving media and non-governmental activists. It was also organized... This was done thanks to the organizers of OFIP, i.e. the Polish Non-governmental Initiatives Forum. This is an annual meeting of NGOs in Poland. I used to organize the first of these meetings myself. There was a panel on this subject, there was a public discussion at the Auditorium of Maximum UW, where the director was also involved. As for my statement at the political rally to the Polish Gazeta Clubs, yes, I confirm that it is a real civil society. But there was no exclusion in that statement, no suggestion that other organizations weren't, so please don't assign me that kind of intention or bad will. Yes, these people needed and needed That's what I'm always gonna say. Appreciation, because it is civil society, as is the Radio Maryja family. [[Applause]] It is not enough that Polish sociologists described these phenomena as authentic grassroots civil society. This is also civil society, as are those people who are currently participating in this opposition concept. The street and abroad. This is also civil society. We can argue if their thesis is true. I don't think they're real. The name of these groups is false, but that's my opinion. I'm entitled to it, but I'm not denying them the right to organize. as citizens, because we are in a democratic, free country where there is no threat to freedom and democracy. And leave Orwell alone. I don't want to talk about it anymore, Mr. Marshal, but I'm asking you to refrain from saying that. Yes, I was little at the time, but since the 1970s I've been fighting with the Polish People's Republic and I don't want anyone to see me Orwell was banging on his head in the Polish Senate. It is to be an institute of freedom without any adjectives, but our cause, as people involved in public life in this country, is that it actually works well and helps civil society. You might win an election someday... [[Oh, no.]] I have a different opinion on this subject, but democracy in Poland is functioning normally and I hope that it will also work when you win the elections and have the tools to continue supporting civil society. [[Control.]] About the recital... Well, I don't know why it bothers you guys so much. That there is a reference to Christian values. I said there's also an appeal to the values of freedom. Among the values of freedom there are also various very unchristian... And it's obvious that in civil society they are, too, because there are non-believers, there are people who, anyway, this is fashionable lately. They even criticize the Christian roots of Europe and Poland. But it's in there, so please don't tell me it's some kind of perversion. Senator Klich spoke about this yesterday. It's just not true. There is nothing to suggest that these rules are not transparent. This bill doesn't say anything about it. On the contrary, it speaks of transparent transfer of funds, in accordance with Polish law, with articles, etc. This will be implemented in the form of government programmes which require consultation and are legally defined. There are even 4 criteria for the substantive assessment according to the standards of European programmes in the law in order to avoid the freedom to apply these criteria. It was also mentioned that this law does not implement the dreams of Poles and NGOs. Well, I'd like to know exactly what the statistical distribution of these dreams is, but from research on values, views, opinions of Poles, however... Well, there are many indications that this law goes against certain problems or needs of Polish NGOs and Poles. We do not all have a group of organizations that protests this law, this change. And that's normal in democracy. I would very much appeal and ask you not to apply insinuations in this discussion, various kinds of imputation of bad will to us, not to say that we are going beyond the standards of civil society, even breaking democracy, etc. It's not only false, it's not just offensive, it's probably not effective anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u11	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Now you're Senator Tight. You're welcome. Mr. Senator George Wright... [[Mr. Marshal!]] Yes, hello? [[As a correction.]] You're welcome. From the podium or from... [[Voice from the room: Is it from the spot?]] [[Out of the way, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u12	Prime Minister, I, in my speech to no one, and especially you, didn't want to bang my head, as you say. [[Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński: A comparison with Orwell...]] But if you don't mind... Because I have the right to say what I think. That's what I think. That's why I'm not going to apply for a change in the title of this law, so let it be just like Orwellian. I, too, don't want anybody hitting me on the head with the concept of a nation, because the concept of a nation has different definitions. I don't want anybody banging the term "endec." I would also like to say that, after your statement, I will file a motion to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u13	Thank you very much. Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I'm gonna hit Orwell too, talk about freedom, talk about Christian values. And I'm going to start with a quote from the Boys from the Arms Square: "Freedom I love and understand, freedom I can't give away." When we were in the Senate yesterday debating the National Freedom Institute Act The Center for Civil Society Development, on the street under the parliament, sang just like that. Unfortunately, the government, the drafter of this law does not understand the word "freedom." Paradoxical situation: citizens demand freedom while in the Senate there is a debate on a law aimed at establishing an institution of freedom, which de facto takes away the freedom of non-governmental organisations. Yeah. often the first and most basic places where civil society is being built. The name of the institution that has been set up for this purpose and regarding its preamble seems as if the Law and Justice wanted to demonstrate that no one could prohibit it from using the New Orwellian language. This is a very important statement, and at the end I will tell you what it can lead to. And it is not true that the preamble does not constitute the legal value of the law, as the government representative suggested yesterday, because it is only, as he said, an introduction to it. On the contrary, the preamble is like a confession of faith. If what is written after her is contradictory with the preamble, it must be crossed out or considered false. So if the Senators of the PiS accept this bill, they will thus recognize that its name and preamble, the essence of the document, are false. Because how else can one treat a document that refers in the name of freedom and civil society, which in the preamble refers to the freedom and Christian ideals of citizens, which supposedly is addressed to NGOs and is intended to promote their development, but does not take into account the fact that at least 70% These organizations critically embraced the gift of freedom you want to give them? What freedom can NGOs rely on? Certainly not one for which I quote the individual's freedom is an overriding value, because it is a definition of liberal freedom that the PiS government does not recognize. And at this point, it doesn't matter whether the reason is ideological or due to educational deficiencies. The latter is also very likely, because the government by the mouth of its representative yesterday announced that it has a different definition of liberalism than scientific authorities, the creator of a Polish dictionary. This is a clinical case of new speech, High Senate. After the discussion about freedom yesterday, I was afraid to ask a government representative about the definition of the Christian ideals of citizens included in the preamble. Contrary to appearances, they do not refer to religious beliefs, but to the civilizational principles of a large part of the world. In this case, Poland is still in Poland. It's called Western, Latin or Christian. Many of these principles apply e.g. sexuality, relationship to other people or immigrants. And these are rules different from those demonstrated by the Polish government today. Therefore, it should be feared that, as in the case of freedom, authors are concerned about something completely different than the concepts used in the law. I would add that in Christian civilization a very important element of the system is to keep the role of the state to a minimum, and to extend local freedoms. The concept of the auxiliary role of the state, High Senate, has come directly from Catholic social sciences. Notabene is also included in the preamble in the Polish constitution. And no one reasonable underestimates it. And to Senator Jan Żaryn, on the question of whether you are allowed to regulate the subsidiarity of the state, I will answer with the question: does a free man have the right to commit himself to slavery? And you can answer, yes, a free man has that right. But the state has no right to create conditions for this or to suggest that it should do something like this. You must not interfere with the sphere of subsidiarity, Senator. You can't do that. This principle is that you must not do this. Nor activate the role of state in this zone, as suggested by Minister Piotr Gliński just now... [[Voice from the room: Prime Minister!]] ...and the Prime Minister. In a situation of such differences in the sense of words, it is clear that the law will not be used to extend freedom and Christian ideals. We have the right to suspect that such a mutilated interpretation is needed to exclude from support projects that do not correspond to the ideology of the ruling party. In order to be able to take advantage of this fact, universal concepts were referred to, but they were given new content, suggesting, I stress, New Orwellian. Your Senate, I will not deal with the articles of the bill, many senators have already spoken of this. Unfortunately, they confirm only all concerns and that this is not about support for the non-governmental sector, but about support for the selected part of the sector. At the conclusion of this specific indictment in relation to this law, I would add that George Orwell's action of his flagship year 1984 was placed in a totalitarian country, and the New Orwellian became a symbol of a state that gives words a different sense, so that seemingly everything looks like a country of prosperity, love and tolerance. Fortunately, High Senate, there behind the wall more and more people sing freedom I love and understand and in them hope that also this bill will quickly go where it should go. Into the trash can. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u15	Thank you. Senator Bobko. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u16	Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! High Izbo! I will refer to the words that my previous speaker referred to, "Freedom I love," and I understand, because I think this is the plane that connects us here. And what I'd really like to do is start by thinking, because here there's a lot more general... and there's a lot of comments, and there's a lot about freedom and its dangers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to one thing, how easily we are today with terms such as enslavement, removal of liberty. Let's be moderate, really, once again, from this speaker, let's measure ourselves in this accusation of taking freedom. And in the context of this discussion one more time comes up, in principle, how to think about it, amazing: that for many of us, also for many organisations or even artists, the refusal to finance or to limit the financing of a project is considered to be the taking of liberty as a shackle. So not giving money for something equals being handcuffed. Let's keep it down, really. That's what I'm thinking. The funding of NGOs, of course, creates, at least that's what I understand, a structural problem, because an organisation which by its nature is and should be independent, but reaches for public funds. So it is by nature a kind of addiction, even because of the need for formal settlement of public funds, which are subject to certain procedures, requirements. The mechanism itself, which is obvious to us today... Once upon a time, it wasn't like that for the government to fund NGOs. And it would have to be said that in the same statement there is a kind of logical contradiction if you were so allergic to intellectual cohesion here, which you referred to. Well, there's a contradiction and a problem, but we live in a world like this and we even view it as a civilizational possession that governments and states support different kinds of initiatives. There's a structural problem here, and you kind of go under the banner of this problem, and you go into accusations, innuendoes, and so on. I repeat, I appeal to the appeal of Prime Minister Gliński to at least make a little measure of it. We are trying to emerge from this problem by referring to transparency and neutrality in the allocation of funds, i.e. the competition mechanism. Of course, that should be the case, but transparency and neutrality are only certain ideals, and often in practice they constitute, in a little elegant way, a cover for the distribution of money in a way that leaves much to be desired, so to speak. In that sense, you could ask, and the state... Whichever would be the minister, whatever would be the principles of transparency and competitiveness. In addition, they are described in this law according to formal standards, as they were and as they are in the world... There is nothing new here and there is no other advice, somewhere at the end of all this must be decided by the minister and of course he is faced with certain decisions. E.g. When it comes to an association, a non-governmental organization that has in its mission the promotion of a theory about flat Earth, it can function, great, some can entertain, irritate others... But the question is: does the government have a duty to support and fund this kind of non-governmental organisation? Well, not necessarily. And there are many non-governmental organisations that promote, I would say, much more harmful values or axiological views, even in the sphere of sexuality, and the question arises: is the government supposed to support this kind of initiative? Decisions are necessary here and appealing to transparency, neutrality is a procedure often rhetorical, but in our reality, in our European Here's a big shortcut that I'm sorry about, but there's no time... Well, for my part, it's obvious that despite these real criteria and ways of allocating funds over the past 20 years... I don't want to talk about exclusion, but in fact there was an exclusion from access to public funds of many organizations. Organizations, which you often call here with such irony, such as the Radio Maryja family or others of this kind. These are NGOs. I don't know if they're gonna go public right now, but they have the right to do it, just like all the others, like the flat earth supporters' association. They have every right to do that. It is the responsibility of the State to distribute funds in a transparent manner, but also to follow some axiology. Because otherwise it's just impossible, there's no reason to pretend it's not. This law extends the spectrum of those who will be able to apply these measures effectively. She's trying to break up a monopoly or end up with the real and real exclusion of a lot of organizations, a lot of backgrounds. It is worth noting that in Polish tradition... Ladies and gentlemen, there is another important issue, I think, in the tradition of the European origin of non-governmental communities. Once again, the great simplification is associated with movements that we can call leftist, liberal, related to the defence of women's rights, minorities. This is a great contribution to the development of civilization, but it is rather associated with leftism. In Poland it is definitely different. In Poland there is e.g. Solidarity, but when it reaches even earlier, even to the times of the Polish People's Republic... After all, there were organizations... not organizations, because completely different languages described them were groups, communities that built churches without the permission of the state. In my region, in Podkarpacie, we emphasized this by giving the title of Doctor of Honor of the University of Rzeszów to Bishop Tokarczuk. These are roots, including ours, of civil society, although not in Europe. Different, but worse or better? I would say that reality is rich and allows many different shades. We also refer to this tradition here. And I am surprised to see that this reference to tradition hurts and hurts some of us, some of you. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that, in my understanding, the law is clearly an extension, not an exclusion, but an extension of the spectrum of potential beneficiaries. The changes are of the nature of the "technical term" here, perhaps more than technical, because they are organized. They will certainly increase the profile of this sector by appropriate attachment at the level of the Ministry. But there are threats here, too. The one that Senator Żaryn was talking about, the danger of red tape, as well as the danger that Senator Żaryn and Prime Minister Gliński were talking about. Because there's a temptation to say the opposite way, to rule out the opposite way: only those who have national, state, patriotic, not civic, social words in the programs. This danger exists and I appeal to my fellow ministers not to act in this direction. The role of the state and non-governmental organisations is also that we, together with this instrument that appears, make wise and honest use of what I wish for and wish for you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Antoni Szymanski, please. Five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I submitted my speech to the protocol, but since I noticed that there were a lot of speeches in which it was tried to stigmatize this law, to stigmatize by using the words 'Orwell', 'Eastern standards', 'centralization'... As we read into the solutions that are proposed, it will turn out that they do not deserve it at all. I therefore conclude that this kind of stigmatisation is intended to build a social conflict rather than a substantive discussion of this law. Much has been said that at the meeting of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee, which I also attended It lasted almost 5 hours, and most of the organizations opposed the resolution of this law. Indeed, most non-governmental organisations that were represented there have put forward such a position, but we must be aware that we have about 130 000 non-governmental organisations. There were a handful of representatives here, it wasn't a representative group. No one's investigated who's in favor of who's against... Just a group of people came. We can easily imagine that there could be dozens of people who fully support this amendment. It would not be difficult, because in Warsaw these organizations are the most in Poland. There are hundreds of organizations here, so that it would be very simple to organize such a group. [[Voice from the room: Some weren't allowed in...]] I was in this meeting, and we as the committee, and I, too, were in favour of everyone... But it wasn't the committee that decided, not you or me. We were in favor of letting them in, but the guards decided. It was about one organization that... As for the consultations that I conducted in Gdansk, they were positive. Of course, there are many questions, because there are always some concerns at the doorstep of something new. Generally, the comments made during the consultations already held since December, when Director Kaczmarczyk attended the conference, were positive for the next months. I was a Member of the Solidarity Election Action, and I remember that we had already received such requests that such an institution should be in the office of the Council of Ministers. Such expectations were also very clearly formulated at the last national meeting of NGOs. I appeal like Senator Bobko and many others: let us not drag NGOs into a completely unnecessary political conflict, because this is unnecessary for us and for society as a whole. I would also like to give an example of what has happened and what this discussion is a certain exemplification of. At the beginning of this year, when the State Fund for Disabled Persons granted grants for activities for disabled people, for about two weeks we had in the media a canonado of saying that many organisations of funds did not receive that there was a huge threat to the implementation of various programmes. In Gdansk, many organizations have asked me why they did not receive... It turned out that there was a slightly different course of this competition, that this media information was false, because all organizations got money. In addition, this year there were almost 100% of these measures. more than in previous years. And I think it's the same with this discussion. There's a canonada right now... trying to scare not only the sector, but also the Poles who are involved in the work of NGOs, all of us. I'm also involved in a lot of organizations. That there's some evil going on here, while... I hope it will be just like those grants from the disability fund. That there will be more means that there will be more solutions. Of course, we have to control it. I completely agree with what Senator Bobko said, that this is not perfect. But finally, I would like to read to you from the episcopate's letter about patriotism a few principles, which the episcopate advises us to guide: firstly, to engage in the work of social reconciliation by reminding the truth about the dignity of every person; secondly, to alleviate excessive political emotions; thirdly, to point out and expand the fields possible and necessary for Poland to cooperate beyond divisions; fourthly, to protect public life from unnecessary politicisation. It seems to me that this discussion was, unfortunately, moving in the opposite direction. I would like this concern from this room, completely unjustified, to be as little as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u19	Thank you, Senator. Senator Piotr Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u20	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm definitely against it. I am very critical of this law, so, although I usually actually speak in a way, I think, moderate, this time I will be quite harsh about this criticism. I think you're wrong, Minister Gliński, in his explanations, when he soothes and accuses the opposition of insinuations. I'll try to prove it in ten minutes. I'll start with the title of the bill. The National Freedom Institute. National is everything now, recently was the National Academic Exchange Agency. I think this adjective is used to make national minorities uncomfortable. They always doubt whether they are in this great Polish nation or not. So much for national. The institution. This isn't an institute. He doesn't do research and he doesn't have the characteristics of the institute. The bill says it's a government executive agency, and that's how it is. Freedom. This is actually an institution of enslavement of NGOs. So much for title and speaking straight. As far as the preamble is concerned, I think she's outrageous, for two reasons. A lot was said about it. I will limit myself, but I will refer both to the message and to internal logic. As for the message, it is in my reception and, I think, in the reception of many, very false. The beginning of the paragraph: Civil society is a common space that serves... etc. Our society is broken, divided, and this law deepens these divisions. Next paragraph: The Polish State supports the freedom and Christian ideals of the citizens, etc. And it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on The Polish state does not support this law, but especially. It's not support, it's property. Christian... That's what she was talking about, what he was talking about, among other things. Marshal Borusewicz, and that is contrary to the constitution. If at all, it should be written e.g. Humanistic, because then it would include what is further mentioned: traditions of intelligence, independence, national, religious, socialist. Christian ideals include religious ones? It is the opposite: religion includes Christian, just religion is more. Therefore, after Christian should be written: Judaist, Islamic, for example. These are found in our country. And then it would be... This was where you had to write humanistic. What about socialist? Christian ideals include socialist traditions? Well, maybe in some cases, but you don't usually think so. It's just contradictory, and it says bullshit. In addition to the fact that, above all, the State does not support, and especially does. The Polish State is committed to the sustainable development of civil society in both territorial and thematic terms. Oh, no, how about a thematic one, since the preamble in the previous paragraph narrows it down to a Christian one? So this topic is very narrow. In short, this preamble covers the state's ownership of non-governmental organisations' space. This is the most general criticism. And I think this preamble is completely inappropriate. And in general, the law creates a department of state administration from non-governmental organisations, which Mr Glinski also talked about to some extent. Actually, it's a ministry with an executive agency. The chairman of the committee is some sort of minister. This committee is actually like the vice ministers and they're practically... The Director is an obedient contractor, who has actually a great deal of financial freedom, the freedom to own up to 200 thousand PLN. The Council has actually very little to say and is badly constructed. etc., etc. In general, in the area where this law regulates certain matters, it is a dangerous law. She sets up a financial subsidiary, marks as if in advance the chances of funding subsidies for organizations that are in some kind of conflict with the government or with the government line. And that's maybe the most outrageous thing about all this. Well, imagine what the application odds are, for example. environmental organisations fighting to stop the clipping in the Białowieża Forest? What's that? After all, it will be said immediately that these people are breaking the law because there was a tablet placed, and they crossed the area, laid down and disturbed, etc., etc. I don't want to develop it anymore. Next: Subsidiaries in principle in the scope of registration, reporting of this to date. The Minister also kept these registers, as well as received and published them. Just another minister. And it was kind of by the way, out of organizational necessity. Here's what I'm gonna say, the rank of the ministry. And you can do it governmentally, in advance... Ladies and gentlemen, this is an outrage! You will say and the Prime Minister also said that these are innuendoes and that they, i.e. Government intentions are good. The problem is that we I personally and many of us We have no confidence in the government and this policy line. For a lot of reasons. The first is, and I will always repeat this, the Constitutional Tribunal, which is, but is not. Next: the Minister of Justice, who is omnipotent, who is the Attorney General and at the same time a Member and at the same time appointing the Presidents of the Courts and, for the current six months, who may dismiss the Presidents of the Courts and Departments. This country doesn't inspire any trust. No trust! That is why it is entitled, I would say, to such a suspicious and negative interpretation of the rules that you are proposing. Some of these negatives are visible directly and some will be visible in applications. So that I am definitely in favour of rejecting this bill. And I'm also making my own separate request on this, because I think that's the way it should be. She should be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u21	Thank you. You're Marshal Michael Sewerinski. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These few words, which I would like to say, actually follow the course of thoughts that have already been expressed here by at least two or perhaps even three people, so my speech will be short. I'm going to talk about terminology that has serious doubts about whether everyone has the same interpretation of certain terms. I'll talk about freedom, talk about ideology. Ladies and gentlemen, first I'm going to talk about Christianity. Because yesterday, and today, there was such a fear that this law is dominated by one thought, one Christian orientation. As it is read in the introduction that the Polish state supports the freedom and Christian ideals of citizens, it is clear to anyone who knows at least a little of the principles of interpretation of the legal text that there is no identity here, because the concept of freedom has a wider scope than the Christian concept. So, with good will, we can say that we will also support non-Christian ideals. This is the first case of terminology. Two. Some of you do not like the word "nation" because it supposedly excludes ethnic minorities. Let us remember that on the basis of the Polish constitution we use the civil concept of the nation. In this sense, all citizens are a nation, so this understanding of the nation does not exclude anyone. That's the second term comment. I'm gonna say the third point about freedom at the very end, because it's gonna be the point of my speech. The measure of my speech is that we have to agree that NGOs work According to this law, they will even have such an obligation, but even without this statutory obligation they would probably have to have such an objective, because this is what the Constitution requires. For the sake of truth, good, beautiful, common good. Here, in the preamble, there is also talk of common good as a criterion. However, we must agree that such a concept of freedom, which is subject to truth, goodness, beauty, common good and civil rights, which are the greatest emanation of freedom, is not understood equally in Polish society and in contemporary societies. I thought you said a lot about it, Senator Bobko. If we took a closer look at this, we would see clearly that many of these NGOs are not only citizen-oriented but also ideologically oriented, and that this diversity between them with regard to civil rights concerns such important issues as for example. whether abortion is to be universal and free, or limited only to the cases indicated in the Act. Twice or perhaps three times, the European Parliament has tabled a resolution that all European Union countries should introduce a universal right to abortion at any time in their legislation. That's what we're different about. Let's take homosexual marriages, same-sex marriages. There are organizations who want to do this, and they insist on it, contrary to the constitution, which speaks of marriage as a union between men and women. As far as euthanasia is concerned, this issue is not yet very much covered in Poland, but I think, unfortunately, there will be a time when it will be heavily covered, as in other Western countries. What about free choice of sex? Those of you who were in the Senate in your previous term of office remember that we were discussing a law that said that anyone who has their own sexual expression can go to court and file a motion and that the judge is obliged to declare the sex that the citizen feels and emanates at the moment. There is no consent in this matter in Polish society. Here's a deep ideological, philosophical division. And we have to take into account that the work of many non-governmental organisations is also taking place around this division or on two different sides of this division. So whenever these organizations, of which there are thousands, or perhaps even hundreds of thousands, I have recently heard of 150 thousand of them, will apply for state aid, those officials who will decide this, officials from giving to any government, whether it's ours, whether it's today's opposition... Well, let's hope there's a government like this at the latest. I can say that because that is the law of political rivalry. These officials will have to decide whether this activity agrees with the concept of common good that dominates Polish society. It seems to me, however, that so far it dominates Polish society such a belief that marriage is a relationship between men and women, and that euthanasia should not be allowed in Poland. Today it can be said that the dominant part of Polish society understands these human rights. So, is it important for those who decide to finance the activities of non-governmental organisations to do so, or should they not? Is the dominant belief in the common good binding on him or is it not binding? Each of these officials will have to resolve such a dilemma. Is the funding of the presentation of the Curse that violates the religious beliefs of many Poles, that is, the decision lying in the common good or outside the common good? It is good that such matters are being debated in our Senate. It's a shame they were being robbed by over-intrusive PRLs about Orwell... We have to answer these questions every day because they are at the root of our political options, our beliefs. It is from our sense of common good, how we interpret it, that our option, belonging to one or another political formation arises. The fact that our interpretations and our sense of common good are not identical is a truism, because that's what it is. That is why we differ in this debate and why the opposition is concerned that this law should not be the subject of restrictions on non-governmental organisations, which are precisely their activities on this side of the ideological, philosophical elections which today's opposition respects. We could have had similar fears in the past, maybe we could have them in the future. It depends on who's going to interpret it. And the last word, the conclusion and the punch line. I think I've heard here twice that the primary issue is individual freedom. Well, that sounds very nice, but it sounds a little theatrical, because all the lawyers, even if those present in this room, will agree that there is no absolute freedom, that absolute freedom is only self-will. We are subject to very many limitations of the law, even if our wills do not violate the freedom of another man. The list of legal prohibitions imposed on us by the state is very long. So in these terminology words, we should also keep a little moderation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u23	Thank you very much, Professor. And Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! Minister! I'm short because I've got five minutes. Professor Seweryński moved the discussion on very general topics. I would like to address some of the words we have heard from the Minister. It is said that the National Civil Society Development Programme will be in six months. Well, there really was plenty of time to prepare it. We heard from the Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] We have heard from the Minister that this whole procedure with the establishment of an institute is supposed to depoliticize decisions. No, he's completely unpolitical. Why should decisions taken in the Ministry of Rafalska be less political than decisions taken by a high-ranking civil servant who, as it is in your custom, is appointed, so he will take his stand in such an institution I think it's okay. I It's too outrageous. No contest? I don't think it's acceptable for a director who has such broad powers to be appointed without a competition. This is absolutely unacceptable. The Minister honestly said he didn't know if it would be better. It's what he used to say. How this institute will be built. I'm the one who's asking, why are we making it? Maybe we should change it evolutionaryly, not revolutionaryly. And the next thing you know, the nation. I address the Minister who is no longer present and Professor Sewerinski. We are not the ones who abuse the word "nation." It's a country all the time, in which the second sentence you use this word, often completely unnecessary. And this country is creating such embarrassing things as the national foundation, which has recently been created and which has so compromised in a very short time. It is a shame that such institutions should be called national institutions. It's a bad name at all. Here, I don't know, I don't think anyone's mentioned it. How can you create such a long name with such a terrible shortcut? That's six... seven words. No one will remember that name, no one will be able to repeat exactly what this institution is called. And finally, I'm gonna go back to the NGO. I think you were right to say, Senator Wach. We don't trust you. The fact that we don't trust, the fact that we're here, we're politicians... But society is also beginning to lose confidence in you and some of these organizations, in my opinion, will be apprehensive at the moment, because there will be fear, in my opinion, the right... And we're gonna talk about this next year about how we're gonna assess the functioning of this type of institution. Like I said, I am absolutely convinced that the stream of money for these NGOs... that this institution is being created to make this stream go where it needs to go, that is, to its own. Besides, in some statements here we heard that the money would go to the right ones, to those of our own, that is, your organizations. And how are these NGOs supposed to behave now? In my opinion, they will survive. In my opinion, these few years... But it is also important to draw attention to society that also society, also we should look at NGOs differently at the moment, we should think about what 1% should be allocated to each time. to which organization to direct it, because there will be organisations that will have reduced funds. We're gonna have to pay very close attention to that. And at the end of the day, this comparison... You are right, Minister Gliński, that we are not yet the most developed civil society. That's the truth. But let us remember how short we develop and how little time we had. I believe that we have had a huge success in this field and we cannot compare ourselves here to those countries that have developed such institutions over the centuries. We can compare here to the countries of the former Eastern Block, where we really look very good on this background. So let us not be confused, let us not say, as the Minister said, that society is full of deficits. No, Minister Gliński, Prime Minister. Society is not full of deficits and it is not full of deficits of civil society. I think it'll survive this difficult time that's coming. I hope it's only gonna be two years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u25	Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u26	Mrs. Marshal, Minister, I have run out of time to say that there is a part of this bill that seems to be important and valid. This is the part of the justification that tells us what the difficulties are in the third sector and what we could do. Of course, this law does not go to the slightest extent to meet these problems, but it is worth telling you here and now, in order to determine a direction of what really needs to be done. for non-governmental organisations. Indeed, NGOs do not have sufficient financial resources. This is indicated as one of the basic problems in their business. Only that they don't want government money, but they want their own money because they want to be independent. Because one of those problems that organizations point to is related to this money, whether self-government or government. It's about the servitism that is required in this activity. This lying is the curse of the Polish third sector. Associated with enormous bureaucracy, it really discourages young people from getting involved. Tell the young people that when they set up the organization, they have to go to the mayor's office, to your uncle's, to the council, and maybe to the institute. And it's gonna look like you have to write a 20-page motion and wait for the goodwill of someone out there who often doesn't know what they're doing. It's a big brake. Of course, if you were to propose here an amendment to the Random Games Act and finally regulated the issue of running the lottery, through which especially these small hostel circles, firefighters could finally legally collect money, it would be commendable. If you had simplified the accounting principle for these organisations even more than we have done, it would have been truly highly appreciated. If you were to reduce the number of documents to be submitted, it would be commendable. A lot can be done to build the strength of volunteering in Poland, certainly yes. But then there should be encouragement in school programs. Not to encourage young obedient ones to be raised, as they are now trying to be included in programs, even directly, instead of those who are involved, who are taught by volunteering to work together and to see more than their own interests, just the common good, even at school level, even at micro level. Finally, I would like to say that this law is rather deepening the shortcomings that it itself points out in the justification rather than contributing to solving these problems. You say we're so distrustful. Well, how can we not be distrustful if the money that went to the Polish National Foundation, actually our money, contrary to the statute of this NGO, is spent on party, propaganda in front of the entire nation? How can you not trust me? Ladies and gentlemen, how are we supposed to believe in your good intentions when such a fantastic idea, which shows a desire for dialogue, like the senior parliament, has been killed by you? There is no senior parliament in our parliament that has concentrated a huge number of senior organizations from all over the country. Why? What are you afraid of? [[Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes.]] So please don't be surprised. You provide nearly every week enough examples to doubt that behind great words there are actions that are respectable. We fear that this law opens the way that has already been laid down in other laws, in other areas, the way to greater dependence... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...to a greater servility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u27	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u28	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, Professor Seweryński provoked me to speak and use these five minutes, because he said some important things, showing where the difference between us is and what the difference is. Mr. Marshal was talking about common good. The concept of common good is common to us, but we understand it differently. Otherwise we understand them, who believe that the common good is safe, democratic, law-abiding and civil Poland, and that therefore there is no way to accomplish the common good without these 4 conditions, if Poland is not safe, democratic, I remind you of the PiS Citizen's... I remind you of that, too, from the PiS, by the way. Without that, there's no common good. You understand the common good a little differently. I'm not gonna define that. Secondly, Mr. Marshal mentioned the individual's freedom. And again, if we were talking to the cameras, then one and the other side would say the same thing: yes, we are for the freedom of the individual. Only that we understand this individual's freedom as it has been described many times in the literature, from Locke and Popper in Berlin: as freedom from, as the absence of coercion. We don't understand her as being self-centered, oh, no, no. The freedom of one man is when it does not violate the freedom of another man. And for that, you need the law. If he doesn't have the right, he's a free man. If there is a law, it restricts self-will. That is why we are wholeheartedly in favour of individual freedom, but understood as freedom limited by law, only for the sake of the second citizen. And we are in favour of freedom from the government. The government has a natural advantage over the unit, we've known about it since the 17th century or longer. And that's why the law limits the government's independence to the individual. That's how we understand freedom. And this freedom is kind of developed by us. One of the conditions of this freedom, one of the consequences of this freedom, is the initiative of the individual. Only a single person has a chance to be active, to have an initiative, to be creative, etc. And this is our philosophy of freedom as a prerequisite for the necessary free individuals, which are creative, who have initiative, etc. That is why we are in favour of a civil society model where there is less regulation in which there is simplification of procedures in which there is mutual trust between citizens. And not in favour of the model you're proposing, which is less trust among citizens, where there are more procedures, as you can see in the diagram presented yesterday by colleagues, where everything is confusing like cloudy water. And in this muddy water, every bad fish will do its best. You propose regulation instead of deregulation. And in order not to be literal, let me repeat to you: The Civic Platform has carried out a significant deregulation for NGOs over the last eight years. First of all, the Public Collections Act, which relieves... allows funds to be collected from individuals and companies without the permission of officials. E.g. I am the initiator of the construction in Krakow of the monument to Jan Nowak Jeziorski and Władysław Bartoszewski, in my opinion two of the most outstanding Polish statesmen, and we organize a public gathering for this purpose, without such permission. Secondly, an amendment to the Associations Act, which reduced the number of founding members from 15 to 7. Deregulation? Yeah, deregulation. In addition, we have simplified the accounts and the forms of the financial statements, given the possibility of regranting public funds from a regional level, from some regional NGOs, selected to others; we have given the possibility to settle lump sum tasks and we have simplified procedures. That's our philosophy. This side of the room, the current opposition to civil society: fewer barriers, fewer obstacles, easier organisation of citizens, so that they have the chance to implement their initiative, their energy publicly. I don't blame you. This is, Mr. Marshal, the punch line. That the State has a different approach. Because as early as 2006, President Kaczyński in an interview with Cezary Michalski in the Diary spoke directly, I quote: "The idea of civil society was an idea of opposition backgrounds derived from real socialism, which feared a strong state and a strong policy. For PiS, civil society is actually a threat, it is an empty construction, it is an American transplant to Poland, an American transplant which is incompatible with Polish tradition and culture, as some countries, prominent Eurospeakers, they used to say. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u29	Senator Fedorovich, you have a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to say that I have absolutely no confidence in lawyers representing the law and justice side because once here, gentlemen have already been quite clearly compromised. Because I was at the Senate meeting for a few nights on the Supreme Courts, and I listened to such wonderful orations about the value of this project, which was denied by the President... And I'm thinking, you know, you have to explain yourself to the public later on when you're an educated lawyer. I'm listening to this debate today, too. Gentlemen. Who are excellently prepared to separate and from freedom, and from Christendom, and you think it can be interpreted as that. I get it. The next lawyer is about to come out and say the opposite. And all I'm gonna say is that we're blowing away, because, as a few of our fellow opposition senators have said here, it's the right thing to do, because a few things in this bill are needed. And now, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to say why we're blowing away. Today, I read in yesterday's newspaper: A number of errors have been made on the issue of the Polish National Foundation, which can result in even the highest political sentence: the resignation of the government. Well, that's very interesting. Of course, that's what the opposition side says, let's call it. Now, do we, having in front of our eyes this law criticized by experienced people, for which the concept of freedom is the highest value of the people who create it, at a time when such a terrible confusion in a negative, even crazy sense concerns the foundation also set up by the government party, the Polish National Foundation? It's about the rules of her operation, about moving people from KPRM to this foundation. I'm very sorry, but as an opposition, we're going to want to point out situations that the daily press is talking about and about which drums for a while. Excuse me, why should we believe that this bill will be legible to everyone? After all, we see exactly how they go from budget to institution, I do not know, e.g. Rydzyk's father. Therefore, do not be surprised that we are fighting this law so clearly and so loudly and demand that it be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u31	You have a voice, Senator Rulewski. [[Voice from the room: Shortly!]] [[Shortly, Jack!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! They say: "Shortly." This is an important argument in the debate, only the question must be made differently: how to speak briefly and at the same time convince those who do not trust us ♪ Or we're on the other side ♪ So that what's called compromise or consensus is created? So it is not true what Marshal Sewerinski said that this debate was useful. It was actually a good seminar, but I don't think those who are watching us and waiting for a resolution... Of course, these 150,000 NGOs expect this, too. He expects a resolution, perhaps he expects a full fulfilment of them... which is impossible due to the huge number and some technical pluralism or organizational perception... But he's expecting a resolution. It seems that this debate is not going to settle because, as I said earlier as the rapporteur Senator This debate already has a steering wheel. 6 times for votes other than ours Read more: PiS. And not only the votes that are supported or addressed by the Civic Platform, but all the other votes, ranging from the legislative department to the votes of the centres of the organisation, so to speak, the citizens of the OSCE in Europe. This law and this, too, is my confession of faith. The reason why Senator Bobko and the government tried to convince us that the government, which is responsible for the conduct of policies towards non-governmental organisations, in general for the conduct of politics, for overseeing public spending... And here's the $100 million that scares us all the time. Not for those reasons... Because if, Senator Bobko, such concern accompanied you and all your colleagues, you would sit down. Besides us, to the table with these non-governmental organizations and you'd make a deal. [[But we got along.]] No, you've consulted or consulted. Besides, you've written in extenso in the bill, which will be, when it's settled: there will be an opinion. You'd also sit down with a new bill with most of the people you're drawing your seats from, so you can make it work. That's not what you guys did. This bill has five wheels in the car. As you know, cars have four wheels, sometimes three wheels. And they're moving. [[And 6.]] First wheel, fifth wheel or even sixth wheel, but let's leave it... The fifth is a title I'll be honest with you. I don't want to use it either. Not because I don't like the freedom and the word "center," it's because he talks about freedom and some kind of centre, and about the institute. And the fifth wheel is the preamble that tells us how this institute is doing. Finally, a small institution, as the minister said, 100 million zlotys of budget and only a few officials move in space. Yeah, she's clearly beyond the limits of this bill. It's not a nominal act, it's just a manager when it comes to how these organizations have it and how you, the NGOs, are supposed to move in a political space to gain any support or favor from government authority. So this is a very important preamble. Without being opposed to it, I would also like to point out that undoubtedly something such as NGOs was not a great project of the Third Republic. It's spontaneous, huge energy. It doesn't matter if she showed up on a Valentine's Day road or a Halloween road or a Chinese dragon. She showed up, set off a tremendous amount of energy. And this has to be seen as a positive, great phenomenon. Since it's not in the Constitution Perhaps the constitutionalists lacked imagination. Perhaps this preamble should be. But not the preamble that Minister Lipiński wishes to make on 16 pages of justification: support, help, small subsidies, more or less, on other terms. The question is what it means to be small. Is it those who have little money or few people and turn big money? It's already a technique. But that's not in this bill. So the preamble is undoubtedly the fifth wheel. The fifth wheel is also what is already the instrument of this recital. In other words, it's about appointing a director of the institute. I don't even insist that he's from the competition anymore, but let's make this appointment with the subject for whom he's supposed to work. I urge you, Minister Lipiński... There's another advice, the Labour Protection Board, which isn't a ruling body either. Please read in the bill how it is appointed, from which group the chairman is chosen, that he does not give an opinion, but takes the position that he initiates... Please read this. It's ready. And you seem to be able to copy such a solution. And in this connection, we say that the Labour Protection Council is a civil body, although it is a body of oversight of the conditions... In this law is indicated 6 degrees or 5 degrees is again the fifth wheel How to choose the director of the institute. From the Minister of State, through the directorate of several ministers, to other things... And the principal is just showing up, and so is this advice that's supposed to be, well, I don't know what kind of body it is. Definitely uncontrollable and certainly not reputable. And why just an opinion poll? What does "opinion" mean? I heard it in this room... When a number of experts held a clear position on the Court Act, there was a voice: it was only an opinion. And that is why Senator Wach is right that it will be a long way from the principles of this law that is being discussed today, to its implementation. A few myths were tried to smuggle in here. One of them: that what this dispute is about, that it is only 60 or 100 million zlotys. Okay, that's the budget. But whether Oatsiak's action goes on public television... [[Why?]] Oh, we have an opinion now. [[Why let go of these heresy?]] Whether he will find recognition in the eyes of public and national television action with the value of advertising, say, 3, 5 or 10 million PLN, it will be decided by the state. So Oatsika's action, however it may be, can only be extended if it enjoys the favor of the government. And the opposite: would organisations that would now be involved in helping refugees receive any applause in the context of the Christian principle of mercy and helping the poor, cursed, cursed and expelled? I have not heard that the government in its actions so far called for the activity of such organizations, for the funds that are still in this great Moravian budget. This fifth circle is also the fact that the practice mentioned here came out on the occasion of the case of this Polish foundation. There is therefore mistrust and the question whether the funds will not be used during the election campaign. And whether at the moment of the next election, 100, 200 or 500 banners will not appear what the Civic and Modern Platform expects. [[Time's up, Senator.]] And whether they will show photos of dark-skinned people or brown-skinned people attacking Poland. [[You've made a bit of a mistake.]] Mr. Marshal, we're not just divided into opinions, we're divided into the worst thing I've ever said: distrust. And once again, I stress: your words, not and not repeated six times for others, including the Platform, mean that the next step will be, as the tribes or the Caucasian nations say, the use of daggers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u33	You have a voice, Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to point out that I have acted and continue to work in non-governmental organisations. Socially, I led one of the largest of them, with over 20,000 members. Such NGOs were also active in conspiracy in the 1980s. I was in the drafting of the law on public benefit organisations, I participated in the writing of this law, which was 17 years ago, but I was also involved in loosening the provisions of the Law on Associations in 1989 and 1990. Because there were monopolies and maintenance in this bill at that time. I would like to refer to the many inaccuracies that have occurred in this discussion, if not intentional, certainly not accidental. There is no doubt, and any logically rational person will agree that civil society is the kind of society in which citizens affect society. In particular, in the electoral act, by choosing the state authorities and together with those authorities The directions for the development of society. And this is being questioned today. This is being questioned by the opposition today. Prime Minister Gliński talked about the fact that among others. What is proposed in this bill, in this program, was already, and that was before the election. And of course you have to say... Senator Żaryn was talking about social engineering here. This is an extremely important matter. Because what is social engineering? This is a change of society against his will. And this has nothing to do with democracy, freedom. And you've been doing this for eight years. Six-year-olds to school, gender law, gender change law, same-sex marriages. You don't remember that anymore? I was in the sitting room of the Sejm when the Minister of Education spoke about the bill on six-year-olds that this reform would be implemented against everything. Against society. Because we know there were millions of signatures, but of course... [[Retirement age.]] [[But $5 million was for, and $2 million for retirement age...]] Mr. Senator, I didn't bother you... [[Gentlemen of the Senators!]] [[I'm all for...]] ...so you're welcome... [[Please refrain from commenting. Mr. Senator Fedorovich...]] ...that screaming... [[He's acting like a six-year-old.]] [[...bringing you to order.]] [[Thank you. I'm sorry.]] [[And don't talk to me again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a good example of bad attitude and bad will is waving a record of Christian ideals. Next to this word, and even before that word, is the word "freedom," and between these words is the coherent "and." It means freedom, and Christian. So it's a very broad record. So you really need bad will to understand it in this way. The senator was just talking here about the Minister being a Member and that this is one of the elements, one of the reasons why he didn't trust the government. Well, it's always been that way, it's nothing new, it's been like that for 30 years, ministers are Members. I am no longer talking about what was also just now: insulting and shouting, seeking evil will beyond measure. I understand that the role of the opposition is to look for places where there may be weak points or bad will, but in this we also need to have some measure. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom and democracy are not the promotion and financing of initiatives that do not deserve it, which do not necessarily promote truth, good, beauty, common good. I'm not gonna mention it because it's already been said here... It is said that the word "institution" in the name is wrong because it is not a research institute. Well, there are various institutions called institutes that are not research institutes. There are, for example. religious institutes, is the Jagiellonian Institute, is the Norwegian Institute. These aren't research institutes, and nobody cares. Senator Augustine said NGOs want money, but they want their own. I don't know what that means. You also called for... you said it was a pity that, instead of dealing with this bill, we're not in the business of cutting red tape. Well, I don't know who brought her in. You had eight years to take her out. There was a team in the Senate who could report such cases. Anyway, Senator Klich said that there was actually a lot of work done on this case, so I don't know what the senator still wants you to do here. Well, there was also an attempt by the opposition to define certain concepts used by the Law and Justice. It is usually the case that whoever introduces certain concepts defines them themselves. Of course, these definitions can be disagreed with. Ladies and gentlemen, here were the words about the Valentine's Day method, the Halloween method. Well, it's kind of... [[It's a raccoon.]] Exactly. This makes this debate of ours not entirely serious. We know that there are many educational, helping, helping people with disabilities and older people. However, these are serious matters of respect. We know that there are scouting organizations that are also involved in upbringing, and I don't suppose they're upbringing young obedient ones. This has never been the case, and it probably will not be, which is why I believe that many of these doubts, as I said, are accentuated beyond measure. I will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u35	You have a voice, Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to address my fellow senators in civic failure. From yesterday to today, until noon, you're still foaming. People who listen to it don't really know what you're talking about. I may quote five lines from the preamble to this Act on the National Institute of Freedom, which we have been discussing here since yesterday: The Polish state supports the freedom and Christian ideals of citizens and local communities, including the tradition of Polish intelligence, independence, national, religious, socialist tradition and the tradition of the folk movement, seeing in them the continuation of the centuries-old traditions of the Republic of Poland and thus protecting the rich heritage of the community of its free citizens. So I'm asking you, what's your point? Because I hear here all the time that the words about independence, national and religious tradition hurt the most in this preamble. What do you mean? Whether you like it or not, Poland is a country with a Christian tradition, Poland is a national, unitary country. Like most countries in the world, it has a unitary form, with only the difference that Poland is a decentralised country. So I ask: where does this zoological hatred of the words of the people and the homeland come from? Did you not happen to be inspired by the late Prime Minister Mazowiecki, whom others wrote speeches, and he read them all before the announcement and crossed out all such words as the nation, the homeland, the national, the patriotic? He crossed out all these words, so I wonder if he inspired you, or if you were infected with this so-called one. the political correctness of Western Europe, which ordered the fight against the Christian tradition of Europe and led Europe to become a desert. And it is known that life hates vacuum, so this desert is occupied by the warring Islam. Is that what you want in Poland too? I have another question. Anyone who listens to this does not simply have the slightest doubt after what you do. This is where you showed us you're cosmopolitans. And you should realize that as cosmopolitans you are in the Polish parliament, in the Polish national parliament. So what are you doing here? I hope that in the next election, if you apply for another reelection, you will not fool your constituents and reveal your views so that they know who they are voting for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u37	You have a voice, Senator Silence... [[Corrigendum. In the title of corrigendum...]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, just a moment, because you're Senator Klich in correction mode. [[I didn't use a name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u38	You didn't use a name, but you referred to a group of senators that didn't exist here. [[It's okay.]] And that's the only reason you won't be on the board. Otherwise, if you had used the name of one of the senators, or if you had used the phrase, the name of the Civic Platform... Well, that's what you'd be on the rule board because we find those words to be something that shouldn't be in this room.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u39	Senator, let's talk about facts, not what could be. [[That wasn't a corrigendum. This is a statement.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, you have the floor of Senator Silence. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think it's a matter of no emotion. Therefore, I have examined this law, and in particular the reservations you raise about the recitals and other solutions that you believe will lead to the disenfranchising of non-governmental organisations, the full submission of their government or the full control of their government. With regard to this statement from the preamble, which states that the Polish state supports the freedom and Christian ideals of citizens and local communities, I think that the misunderstanding is that you treat the calculation of these values. Because these are certain values of these freedom and Christian ideals of the citizens, to take these two concepts into account in conjunction, i.e. that they must be also free, and Christian ideals, so that the Polish state would like to support them. This is a mistake, because the conjunction in the law applies when you mention some conditions that need to be fulfilled for something to be realized, while you do not use the conjunction where it is formulated to calculate certain issues covered by the law, or some of the objectives that the law is going to achieve, because then you simply use the consistency of the law. Therefore, in these types of calculations, for which several objectives are calculated, several subjects of action cannot be treated as a conjunction. It seems to me that a part of the state is either really erring in the field of logic, or simply, without erring in the sphere of logic, it is intended to compromise the law as supposedly sinning even in the absence of common sense or maintaining a fair proportion. Try to interpret this in such a way that only if the state supports these goals, when they are consistent with freedom and will be associated with Christian ideals, will you? That's the first line. Second point, ladies and gentlemen. You claim that this law is supposed to be subject to full control by NGOs, and the essence of these NGOs And that's where I agree. The point is that they have to be to a certain extent, quite large, independent of the government. Well, of course, it cannot be said that any institution is to be completely independent of the law, and indirectly from the government, which in turn is to watch over compliance with the law. But of course this margin should be as broad as possible. That is why I went to the trouble of checking those regulations, which include inter-temporal rules, i.e. passers-by, and at the same time provisions that change the existing law. Of course, the biggest changes concern the law on public benefit organisations. And to be honest, I didn't find anything that would change in a way that would adversely affect those organizations regarding their regulations. These are merely changes of an ordering nature, most often such that the powers of the Minister of Labour are replaced by the powers of the new body appointed here, which is the president of a public benefit organisation... or the director of this national institute. And, ladies and gentlemen, I really don't see what that limitation would be. Yes, I am aware that the previous regulations are imperfect, and here I even share Senator Augustine's view that various formal procedures should be simplified, because there are sometimes too many forms to fill out and provide information. It is sometimes for non-governmental organisations, which by their very nature do not employ the most. In particular, as these are small organisations In my opinion, professional staff, lawyers, economists or accountants are too difficult. I believe that this needs to be worked on in the future, which, of course, does not contradict this law, which we are talking about, because it concerns matters other than procedural matters. And then there's the third line. Ladies and gentlemen, I see some strange sensitivities against the background of the national concept. Well, what's wrong with being called a national adjective, or is it often referred to as a national tradition? I would like to remind you of something very significant for me here. I used to talk to Czesław Miłosz, while the Minister of Culture was Minister of PSL, at the moment I don't remember the name... The one who made a little bit of a fuss about Czapski, about whom I think he thought he was still alive, while the outstanding creator had already been dead for many years. We regretted that the Minister attaches too much importance to supporting various kinds of regional, folk, etc., that the proportion of culture, let's call it, with a more general, universal dimension, is distorted. And then Czesław Miłosz told me, and for the rest of my life I remembered it: sir, I think it's an asset. He says he's It is the regional, local culture that is being supported. And he says this: sir, it is inconceivable that in a situation where in some country they would stop playing in philharmonics, for example. Beethoven's works were forgotten because if it is not performed by the Krakow or Warsaw Philharmonic, they will certainly perform this song in the Prague, Vienna and so on in the world. But if you stop cultivating this local tradition, some bands will stop playing, singing, performing and local culture supporting, then when these songs disappear from circulation, it is most often irretrievably because it is not registered anywhere, it is not deposited anywhere, just like what is a classic in culture. And I think it is also worth remembering this if we are discussing the concept of national or national adjective in various kinds of legal regulations, including those that particularly emphasize the importance of national heritage and traditions and local traditions. I believe that this is a value to be sustained, not to get some thrill of negative emotions and to look at this even nationalism. Of course, just because we're patriots doesn't mean we're nationalists. I do not think it should be ashamed that we have a patriotic approach, that what is related to our own nation, our own culture, we emphasize, we cherish and always put it first. It is a natural thing. I believe that every nation that has self-esteem should do so and has a deep right to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u41	Senator Jackowski's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am listening to this long debate, which has been going on for the second day, and I am so convinced that, in fact, in this whole debate, what the opposition is raising is not a concern about how NGOs operate, how they operate, how they implement the ideas that lead them, but merely an attempt to socialise NGOs and try to use NGOs for political purposes. This is particularly clear, for example, when the Civic Platform refuses to participate in the President's meeting on his proposals for judicial reform, and at the same time includes folk committees or committees which are intended to lead to destabilisation and disorder of public order in Poland. And for this purpose they are also needed, because the Platform is probably too weak structurally and organisationally, the NGOs that the Platform is trying for its objectives I would like to stress: for my purposes Political use. This is the implementation of the tactics that Grzegorz Schetyna announced in December 2015. He then announced that the method of fighting the opposition against the democratic verdict of Poles expressed in parliamentary elections would be, I quote: street and abroad. In the case of foreign countries, this is about internationalising internal conflicts in Poland by directing communications to our country, especially in the European Union, but also directing them to other international institutions. Unfortunately, this mechanism can be referred to a historical analogy, similar to that at the end of the 18th century. Then, after the Constitution was passed on 3 May, some of the elites of that time sought to preserve their privileges with foreign doorknobs in the name of the endangered democracy. Thus, she gave to the neighbouring powers I'm talking about the 18th century, the pretext for intervention. What it ended with, we know from history. In the case of the street, however, it is an attempt to cause social unrest. However, this tactic is barren, and above all it shows that so-called. Total opposition does not understand or want to understand democratic mechanisms and treat democracy instrumentally. He acts like Sienkiewicz Kali: if Kali steals a cow, it's good if Kalemu gets a cow, it's bad. So if in Poland they ruled the environments creating the current total opposition, then in their opinion democracy worked well. On the other hand, if, as a result of democratic procedures, the opposition, which is totally and defy reality, is removed from government, then we have an attack on democracy and the rule of law. The assassination of democracy is in fact being allowed by total opposition, which does not take note of the verdict of Poles and their expectations expressed in this election verdict issued in October 2015, which gave the current government a mandate to implement planned reforms in the next areas of the functioning of the Polish state. In the strategy of total opposition we are dealing with a typical defence by attack. The environments which treated the Third Republic of Poland, including the justice system and other state institutions, as their private property, feel the dangers associated with the reforms implemented by the Law and Justice, try to defend their status quo and their influence. It is therefore clear that the actions of the current government are hitting the core of the problem faced by the Polish state. So-called spontaneous social protests at the end of July during the adoption of key laws to reform the justice system give much to think about. Potential sources of inspiration and funding pointing to the activation of foreign centres are interesting. A large number of those who went out to protest were convinced that she had done so spontaneously, but did not realize that in fact their decision may have been influenced by sociotechnics and very perverse marketing... [[applause]] ...used in Internet and media space. This is about creating an impression of spontaneous formation of public opinion, but in the background we are dealing with a strong socio-technical influence, a phenomenon consisting of spontaneous grassroots social action, which is actually stimulated by some hidden entity. [[It's just perfection.]] [[Get to the point.]] [[Mr. Senator, you're out of your league. I'm the one who can ask the senator to cut to the chase...]] [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] [[...and you should remain silent.]] [[Thank you. Mr. Marshal...]] [[Go on.]] [[I was going to... to remind you of our duty to speak...]] [[Don't forget, Senator, I asked you to keep your silence.]] [[You've made a mistake with the newspaper.]] [[Go on.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The fact that in the case of the July protests we were dealing with a sociotechnic to give them a spontaneous dimension confirmed the expertise. Marta Kowalska from the Centre for Analysis of Propaganda and Disinformation indicated that the campaign seems to be one of the elements of a Russian special operation against Poland. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the gym: But you're out.]] I didn't think that... [[Go on, Mr. Senator.]] She pointed out that the actions carried out were in line with Russian goals, such as marginalization of the country in the arena between the national ones. In turn Dr. Adam Lelonek, President of the Centre for the Analysis of Propaganda and Disinformation, stated that influencing the decision-making process and every level of functioning of the Polish state fits into the willingly applied theory of controlled chaos by Moscow. He pointed to entries with hashtags concerning demonstrations in Poland on the Internet, which were identical and broadcast at the same time. Anonymous accounts often served them, with an impossible frequency for a man by bots, a computer program acting like a real user. In other words, it's an algorithm pretending to be a living man. Twitter was literally flooded at one point with such artificially created messages that seemed spontaneous. This is an analysis of specialists. I recommend reading to the gentlemen and ladies of the Platform because I quote it for Onet, a source of information, which you will also be happy to use. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, it is clear that on the occasion of this law we are dealing with what I said at the outset, i.e. an attempt to use non-governmental organisations which have an important role to play in the democratic system. They fill a certain space between government or local government and the citizen, acting on different levels as social organisations. The opposition, of course, is trying to socialize these organizations, to use them for its purposes, because to this day it cannot accept the results of the elections. He can't even hide it, and it shows what I've shown in my text. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, namely the question of financing various projects. Well, as it turns out, what Ordo Iuris, NGOs, has shown, I'm not saying here... The so-called Norwegian funds were used primarily by organisations in large cities. For the number of entities that were beneficiaries... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. The vast majority of organisations that benefited from major projects were in large cities. It is not enough that the institution, which is tasked with providing public information, refused Ordo Iuris to provide information on the details of these proceedings, which is a violation of Polish law. In light of the above, the wise man is quite... Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u43	You have a voice, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a few comments. I have come to the conclusion of this discussion that is being held here. The first is a remark about the status of NGOs as such. Ladies and gentlemen, I address the left side of the room. The non-governmental organisations should not be sucked up to, claiming that they are... Here I would like to quote: "Non-governmental organisations as the highest form of development of society." It's just unethical, you shouldn't say that. I've heard such claims that it's, for example. the working class is the highest form of development of society, that regional communities living outside the country The concept of "states" was not used there, and they are the highest form. We shouldn't use that concept. Of course, NGOs are important, but this is not an end in itself. It is simply a means to achieve a more general, more basic and beneficial goal for all. I have a simple question for you: do all citizens of the Republic of Poland have to be members of a non-governmental organisation? Isn't one who doesn't belong to a non-governmental organization a second-class citizen? Because your vote here has sometimes shown that there is some kind of compulsion to belong. [[A moral imperative.]] Oh, that's a very good word, moral imperative. So I'd ask you to treat In accordance with reality Non-governmental organisations as a kind of means to achieve the objective. By who? That's what our constitution is talking about. The one you've been waving in so many cases. For the sake of the existence and future of our Homeland, we, the Polish Nation All citizens of the Republic of Poland... And here we explain the concept of "nation" and why we use the term "nation." It does not have ethnic connotations, but it defines all citizens of the Republic in one word. That is the constitutional definition of this concept. The welfare of all citizens of the Republic, including those not belonging to NGOs, is important. And if NGOs work for all citizens, that's all the better. All the more so, of course, should be supported. The second point is the state's attitude towards non-governmental organisations. Non-governmental organisations are groups of citizens, so it should be the same attitude as a single citizen. A citizen is allowed anything but what is forbidden. So is a non-governmental organization. The State should uphold the free activities of NGOs. It also protects the lack of dependence of this organisation on external factors. This organisation should, in accordance with its statutes, comply with the objectives which it certainly has set out in the statutes. It continues to work for the good of all, but independently, unfortunately also from the government. And here's another case. Why did you have this discussion, really bringing it to the money category? Because you were talking mostly about cash supply, money in funds, organizational funds by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, when you take money, you lose part of your virginity, unfortunately. That's how it is. Now, back to the main idea... What should you do? Prevent the possibility of restricting the freedom of activities of non-governmental organisations. All of them. And those who want to be financed by the government, and those who don't want to be financed by the government, and those that the government doesn't want to finance. Question: Can there be those that the government doesn't want to finance? Of course. Because the government cares about the general legal order in the state. And he's certainly not going to finance those organizations that, for example, do. Fascism or I don't know. Other totalitarian systems, to communism, refer. What's not allowed for a citizen? Violate the law. Non-governmental organisations are also not allowed to do this. It's obvious, but it's not understood everywhere. Some organizations act as if they could violate the convention bill because they are allowed to. Why? Can anyone answer that? A single citizen is not allowed, but if he's organized, he can. As I said, by bringing this discussion about NGOs to the issue of government powering these organisations, you kind of insult them. Unfortunately, it is. You're saying they have to be powered by the government, but they're not. Most organizations operate independently, regardless of the government, which does not mean against the government. They do not have to act according to the government line or according to what the government is calling for, but they have to comply with the law and, in particular, the Constitution. What else should the government do? Same thing he does when it comes to citizens. He's trying to help those who are the weakest. The best example for citizens is the programme 500+. The weakest organisations need to be supported, so that it is a system of NGOs, not some kind of social oligopoly, in which organisations have a monopoly on the truth, a monopoly on money, a monopoly on access to the media. If this is gonna be a system, it should be these organizations as many as possible. And the country is pre-destined. If this works, we'll talk about the system. The last question is related to the language that was used here. Ladies and gentlemen, the word "lie" is very ugly. Luckily, we didn't use it in this discussion. Let me put it this way: and who led to this lying? Who forced NGOs to lie in government? We didn't do it. Hit your chests. Don't insult non-governmental organisations. Some of them do not need government money, and those they need will not lose because of this bill. On the contrary, the division will be fairer, more even. In this bill, I refer to the voice of one of my previous speakers. I don't see any threats to the NGO system itself. I don't see any restrictions on the Foundations Act, on associations, I don't see any changes. There's only technical regulations... and funding regulations. [[Voice from the room: Great idea!]] But we speak clearly: we will finance those organizations that operate legally, so that as many of them can receive funding, so that it is an organizational system, and not, as I said, the oligopolies of several selected entities and their representatives, who appear in the media and express supposedly independent opinions. It's just that the nation isn't just made up of a few thousand chosen ones. Non-governmental organisations are not limited only to those few power pets. These organizations should be as many as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u45	You have a voice, Senator Borowski. [[Can you correct it?]] Please, in corrigendum mode. [[What do you want to straighten out?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u46	A few simple... Excuse me, Mr. Senator. [[Yeah, yeah.]] I'm sorry, sir, but I'm going to refer to what Senator Jackowski said. Mr. Senator referred to some of the material from Onet, which some of us have known very well since it was published. I'm doing this professionally, so I'd like to remind you that what you've presented is only half the truth. Well, the material on Onet wasn't just saying what you're suggesting about using the so-called. astroturfing, i.e. entries so called. bots, which were intended to increase the mood of demonstration in Poland 'Cause that's the kind of bot that does it massly. This footage, which I would like to remind you of, was also about reactions such as yours, which are accused of astroturfing in relation to the accusation of astroturfing. Please read the report of the renowned American Atlantic Council. These are those who voted for Poland's accession to NATO, and those who continue to support the strengthening of the eastern flank. They examined several thousand accounts, from which opinions such as those you said were sent to accuse the opponents of using astroturfing. And they came to the conclusion that you used astroturfing. It is in the Atlantic Council report, independent of everything, but discussed in this article of Onetu, which you are referring to. Therefore, in order to correct it, I completed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u47	Mr. Senator Borowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm standing here in front of you to give you a challenge. It's been going on for a long time, I have to say, but somehow I didn't have the audacity. But I'm gonna do it today. I love the Senate. I love the Senate and all the senators, even the senator of the Member State, although with some reserve. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Tough love.]] Why? Why, ladies and gentlemen? Well, because we don't have any discussion, no matter what the subject is, after a while, because of the high intellectual potential of the senators, we're leaving for completely different areas. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And there are lines... [[Applause]] Here you go, let's hear it. ... Philosophical, sociological, state theory, and law are all there. It's really nice to hear. And since I also have a rich experience of the Seym, tochapeau bass. And just a moment ago, Senator Jackowski gave a paper that was, to put it mildly, loosely related to the subject of our discussions. I'd say it was like a good jazz song. I mean, at the very beginning, Mr. Senator got involved with NGOs, then improvised on other topics and ended up with non-governmental organisations as well. What was inside? Inside... We remember the movie "Rate." And in the movie "The Land, Engineer Mamoń" said famous words that we like the songs we know best. And Senator Jackowski actually reminded me of that time. He reminded me of that time when he said that people who protested against judicial laws only seemed to protest spontaneously That's what he said: they were the only ones who thought so. As I understand it, the president who vetoed these laws also seemed to be doing it spontaneously, I think someone was behind it, it's worth discovering. Well, that reminds me. Unfortunately, Mr. Senator, you're a young man, so maybe you don't remember. The famous performance by Władysław Gomulka, also known as Comrade Wiesław. He then, when the students protested against the censorship, against the lack of freedom of speech, and protested probably spontaneously, in his famous speech he said that they might and are somehow honest there, but these speeches were not spontaneous, they were inspired You were also talking about inspirations. By hostile diversional centers... [[Imperialism.]] [[Foreign...]] ...by imperialism, by all means, hostile diversional centers, Free Europe. According to you, these people were inspired by other sources, Russians, etc. It's just that vectors change. That's when the Russians inspired them, it's true, it's just different. And then, when they were reassigned from college, they probably thought it was, so they said it was about separating them from those bad influences. And finally, those who went to prison are just for their own safety. So I must say, Mr. Senator Jackowski, I was worried about your paper. I don't know who wrote this to you, but I think you should... [[From whose inspiration?]] ...picking copywriters, 'cause sometimes it's like a bullet in a fence. And to the second statement, I would like to refer to Senator Cichoń's statement, which here dealt with logical grammar or grammatical logic, namely, focused on this conjunction. The fact that the state supports freedom and Christian ideals and that it is not really a conjunction should not be treated together, because it is treated together in completely different situations, and here it must be treated completely separately. I agree with you, completely. Only in my ears is it still sounds, and in front of my eyes is Minister Ziobro, who in this pulpit convinced us that new people must be chosen to the Constitutional Court, and all those whom the Sejm has chosen must be thrown out, for this simple reason, that they have been chosen incorrectly. And why were they wrongly chosen? Because the proposal in which they were submitted in their previous term of office as candidates was wrongly drawn up. And what was the malfunction? It is said that in the law or in the Rules of Procedure it was stated that candidates to the Constitutional Tribunal are to be notified to the Bureau of the Sejm and 50 Members. And Minister Ziobro pulled it off. He's an outstanding lawyer. The Bureau and another 50 Members should be signed under such a request. And since only members of the bureau or only 50 Members were signed, such a request was invalid. And on that basis, the Constitutional Tribunal had to be overthrown. That's the logic, I don't want to say yours, but that's the logic of Minister Ziobra, and that of Minister Ziobra, too. At the time I didn't hear, perhaps your senator wasn't in the courtroom, protesting about it. On the contrary, everyone accepted that this is a great argument to destroy, destroy the Constitutional Tribunal. And that's all I wanted to share with you, but my declaration regarding my feelings for the Senate is absolutely sustained. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u49	You have the voice of Senator Libicki. [[In corrigendum mode.]] Please, in corrigendum mode, maximum 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In corrigendum mode. Well, I'd like to tell Senator Borowski that I'm not such a young man at all. I was a grown man in the PRL period, but unlike you, I didn't sign up for the PZPR. And thank you for this instruction regarding the language of Władysław Gomulka, the first secretary of the Central Committee of the PZPR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u51	You have the voice of Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a little worried because I won't be able to agree with Senator Borowski. Now I'm gonna tell you why I won't be able to agree. Because I really like, value and respect Senator Jackowski, we have a lot of things in common, and yet from this statement, which Mr Marshal Borowski said was such a jazz improvisation, I will try, I will be tempted to draw some logical conclusions. If I were to try to draw such logical conclusions, I would point out that in the context of the functioning of NGOs, Senator Jackowski spoke about foreign influences, yes, foreign influences, the fact that foreign influences were seen on the occasion of protests on courts and as far as NGOs are concerned, we can also expect foreign influences. Well, I've probably never, until yesterday, used comparisons that all the things that happened in the PiS camp referred to the situation in Russia. I thought it was largely a retort grip. Yesterday, I broke this rule by referring to Peter I, which I think many of you liked, and today Senator Jackowski confirmed to me that this is the way, because today Senator Jackowski has the voice that is usually voiced in Russian Duma from Vladimir Zyrinowski. In a moment the Russian government wants to do something, Vladimir Żyrinowski comes out and says, and carries out some preliminary exegesis of the actions of the Russian government. That is why I believe that this voice of Senator Jackowski is logical and very inconvenient. What are the next steps if we consider this to be a continuation of this process? Well, Senator Jackowski used specific terms, talked about these influences on Facebook and Twitter. Does this mean that we're about to talk about a bill here that will limit access to Facebook and Twitter? That sounded very disturbing. I think we can deal with a situation like this. And may it not be so that Senator Jackowski's statement was just an announcement of these next steps. I would like to say this to Senator Czerwiński: of course there is no compulsion to belong to non-governmental organisations. I merely called myself, for example, my constituency and my youth experience. Well, I'd like to say that there's no need for people to belong, for example. to Milicki Association of Friends of Children and Persons with Disabilities, which started in 1993 in 15 people and with 1 thousand PLN collected under the church. Today, this association has 200 jobs and more than 1,000 people with disabilities under its care. I don't care if it's possible it's some kind of compulsion to belong to this association. I am simply concerned about whether such institutions will be able to continue to operate and apply freely for public funds. [[They'll be able to.]] Because the truth is... That's true. I agree with you. We are talking about some unbalancedness here, about the fact that small associations are often devoured when it comes to public funds, by large ones. Yes, sir. It's just that it's like this again... the state, when you passed the media bill, you were talking about some inequality in the public debate. I was even ready to agree that in some elements this inequality existed. Has equality therefore been restored today? [[Yes.]] I don't think so. Well, Senator Dobkowski says so. Mr. Senator, we are fundamentally different in this matter. I'm afraid you're seeing some unbalance in the development of non-governmental organizations again, but once you restore symmetry, this unsymmetricality is going to be much bigger, and it's going to go the other way... Thank you very much. [[I would like to say only one sentence in the correction mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u53	Please, in corrigendum mode... Three minutes max.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u54	Not even a minute. I would like to refer to Senator Borowski's statement. I am convinced that Senator Borowski loves all senators with the love of his neighbor... He mentioned me that he had a spare for me. I'm not mad about it, I'm glad, but just to be safe, I'd like to inform you that I'm heterosexual. That's it. [[Voices from the hall: But you said...]] [[Senator Stanisław Rooster: No need for...)]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u55	Senator Rooster's voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u56	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I listen to this debate all the time, yesterday and today. Ladies and gentlemen, I have such reflection that it has turned into individual trips, trips to one another. It really doesn't give the Senate any credit. Some are attacking our president, Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński... [[It's me.]] ...attacking the enormous father of Tadeusz Rydzyk and Radio Maryja, attacking the Clubs of the Polish Gazeta. And not enough, my dear fellow Members, we are all focusing on this bill. Dear lords, the Lord has given so that I, too, run a very large non-governmental organization. What Prime Minister Gliński said here... No one listened calmly, did not analyze the words of Prime Minister Gliński, nor the attack, because he was Prime Minister Gliński of the Government of Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, let's all hit each other in the chest, especially for those eight years of the previous coalition. It was true what Prime Minister Gliński said. If there were measures at the level of the Marshals of the voivodships... Let's see if there was a huge policy there, or if it wasn't so that the funds were received by those who were very favorable to the previous coalition. Check it out all over Poland. And those who were from the Law and Justice... I've already told you here how the famous shadow minister, Minister Piter, sent to the NGO I led, 23 controls, because you had to look for hooks, find something. Thank God she didn't find anything, because the organization works great. Ladies and gentlemen, next item. Let's not hide... Senator Żaryn mentioned some organizations here. In fact, they were the only ones who were getting money from Norwegian money. Someone mentioned, I think, Senator Augustine, 1%. ...No, I'm sorry, it was Senator Zdrojewska who mentioned it. And who would collect that 1%? ? Are these weak organizations? No, the very strong ones, especially those foundations that have television, because on this television they promote their KRS and their collection. The law that is now being introduced will really help these small organizations. Some of the big ones... I spoke out loud at the committee meeting. Mr. Senator Augustine can confirm And when a man came in need, they said, "Yes, I'll give you a sub account, but like 10%." He's gonna go to my non-governmental organization. He was talking about mine. After all, these analyses, which are carried out in our senior commission, have clearly shown that they had the greatest money. What are we afraid of? For me, the screaming, the crying, how bad it's gonna be that freedom is violated... Dear people, how will this freedom be violated? Who in this Poland is bombing democracy? Will democracy in Poland be violated by this law? Manifesto anyone can. I'm not going in, I'm taking trips like one to another... you can protest. You don't use water parcels, cops don't roam, militia before, and now the police. Where is it affected? What are we ashamed of? That's a national word? Dear Lords, for this word the national people gave their lives. And let's not politicize it, and let's really respect the word "national." Dear Lords, there are some who confuse Saint Francis here, the call for poverty... I really value all non-governmental organizations that help people, but from the heart, not for my own money. There's so many organizations, and some of them are just so that someone does. 'Cause it's sometimes that one creates an organization that makes money for themselves. Isn't it true that some of the combs, trips abroad were paying off the money of a non-governmental organization? I'm not gonna talk about refugees, because really, if someone didn't survive hell, what Islamists are doing, And I lived through it in Barcelona. It's better if he doesn't speak. But I'm not gonna get off the subject. I really think this bill is a very good bill. And let's stop with the screaming that everything that the Law and Justice do is wrong, wrong, wrong. Then why didn't this nation vote for you two years ago and choose Law and Justice? Because maybe, like Mr. Gliński said, there was too little control of Amber Gold when Amber Gold was formed? Or was there too little control over what was at Owl's? And what did Prime Minister Gliński say wrong? He told the truth. On the other hand, everyone's screaming, "Well, people are protesting!" I don't see that kind of organization protest. Because when there was a consultation, it was in Małopolska and the NGOs took the issue of change very seriously. And they said, "Yes, it's fine." But one thing, Minister Lipiński, please. Don't politicize the organization. When applications are made, don't look at the way they looked at my organization PO, PSL and Mrs. Pitera. Take them all equally. But organizations that work from the heart and not, as Senator Czerwiński said, organizations... are we going to promote those who preach fascism? I have a different opinion than many colleagues from the POs, but in a cultural way we discuss, e.g. Senator Flork. We argue and discuss. And I call for it to be really, when it comes to helping a man, not to politicalize it, and not to politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u57	Mr. Senator Augustine in corrigendum mode. Please 3 minutes maximum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u58	My name has been called twice, so I want to refer to it. Senator Rogut has indeed raised the issue that has been raised in Parliament's team and committee, the issue of irregularities In our opinion, we believe that In terms of where 1% reaches. Because there are organizations, there's 10% of them. , which collect 90% the total pool and 90% The organization has access to the rest. It's an irregularity. But my correction concerns something else. These organisations, which have subaccounts, have been examined by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and have been found to provide all donor money for the purpose that was indicated. Except they're doing it a lot later, in the meantime they're going through interest, not everyone's taking advantage of everything, and they're not taking advantage of all of that interest, and they're keeping it out of that leftover. So that's what this is all about, too. To put it this way, Mr. Marshal, what you've touched is good... However, we do not see the repair of this situation in the bill. You also added another case to that basket that I was talking about in my speech. There's a lot of stuff to do, but you don't do it right now. It's what organizations don't want. Professor, speaking of my own money, I don't think I made a happy statement. It was about money that did not come from public sources: either government or government, and these account for almost 70% all the money that reaches the organization. It should be the other way around. If legislation were to be proposed here to increase the relief for those who transfer money to non-governmental organisations, if the 1% issue had just been modernised It's the purpose of the bill that might have been achieved. Meanwhile, it is said that small organisations are involved, and even the preamble does not mention them, and they are not mentioned anywhere. They don't exist in this bill. They exist only in, in my opinion, unfortunately empty declarations of speech, because nobody wrote this in any provision of this law, nor specifically in the explanatory memorandum. The problem has been shown, but it has not been resolved. That is why I was talking about the fact that the statements in the explanatory memorandum are good, but the bill as a solution completely misses the objective outlined in this explanatory statement, completely. That's why you have to look suspiciously at it. And that's how we look at her. As usual, it's about something completely different than what they say.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u59	I state that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Ryszka, Szymanski and Komarnicki have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted in writing by the senators: Duda, Borusewicz, Bonisławski, Kobiak, Wcisła, Rulewski, Klich, Rotnicka, Florek and Wach. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know if I can blend in with the intellectual and aesthetic atmosphere of the Senate, but I'm gonna take the test, although I don't think it's going to work. Dear High Izbo! This is the eighth debate on this bill in Parliament. Five were in the Seym, three were in the Senate. I've been complaining a little bit to the Senators in the P.O. that I'm already tired of this bill. Indeed, but I intend to carry it out to the end. I have the impression, after these eight debates, that the two political camps that are now in Parliament are not in a position to get along. Although I have agreed to accept a number of amendments to the POs, they concern secondary issues. We haven't been able to work things out in the basics. I'm sorry to say that. Maybe some mistakes were made either on the government side or on the opposition side. Well, we weren't able to make a deal. I was just wondering what to say here... I'm gonna answer some of the questions, but I'm gonna try to talk about things that connect us. Okay? I'm gonna do this political-intellectual experiment, and I'm gonna try to talk about it. Firstly, we cannot be accused that we have reduced the funding for NGOs. It's the opposite. We've increased it. We've put in place a revision of the gambling bill. These additional funds at the level of about PLN 40 million will be used by the fund, which will be available to the Centre. We've increased these resources. Do you agree? Is that a good solution, Mr. Senator Rulewski? Because you supported it, too. Well, I'm glad. We have the first case we have in common. Secondly, we have moved these funds from one government agenda to another government agenda. Well, basically nothing changes. I guess you could say the other one's worse than the first one, but... the first one's the Department of Public Use in the Ministry of the Family, and the other one's the Committee of Public Use. Well, of course you can deny that the committee doesn't have a higher rank... I think he's got a higher rank. Generally speaking, we have raised the profile of cooperation with non-governmental organisations. We can be accused of misusing it, but the fact is, we've raised this rank. Here's another thing. In the light of the changes we are proposing, we do not interfere with what is happening between ministries and NGOs. I repeat, we're not interfering. As it was, it is, and it will be. I hope the opposition accepts it and accepts it. Nothing changes here either. More, we do not interfere with cooperation between local governments and NGOs. There's absolutely no change here either. Self-governments will do what they want to do in this regard. And here's the interesting information I presented at the Sejm meeting, and I don't think very many people know about it, because it's like a clou of this problem... the means that will be at the disposal of the institute, that's Okay. Okay. Okay, okay, okay, which are dedicated to NGOs in Poland. 1% ! We are still discussing 1% in these 8 debates. Tell me how it's possible to Even if we had bad will and wanted bad 1% use This could have destroyed the whole third sector, or around 120 000 NGOs. Explain it to me because that's the main question I'm asking myself. Why such emotions, such accusations, such accusations, when it comes to a small share of what is going on between public administration and NGOs? Yes, we are setting up a public benefit committee, but it consists of representatives of ministries. The idea is to exchange experiences and introduce principles of good practice in order to have some contact on the line: government administration, NGOs. We transfer these funds from the FIO, the Civil Initiative Fund, from the family ministry to the institute, but And here's the interesting thing. The opposition's representatives are defending not to move these measures. Okay, but the FIO is at the minister's disposal, and generally the director of the department. If we had the wrong will, why shouldn't we use the wrong means? E.g. pass on to us, in quotes, organizations, not to pass on, I don't know, e.g. The Batory Foundation. Why? Now we have the same instruments. Why are you defending a solution that is now and which can also be misappropriated if you think we have bad intentions? And yet we have full control of the FIO. [[No, because...]] [[No.]] How can you not, Senator? Now, there's a charge that the position of NGOs varies, that they'll be ours and not ours. Sure, that's a charge that can always come up. Organizations are, at least some, politicized. I do not believe that there is no difference between the Batory Foundation and the Polish Gazeta Club. They're small, because they're small. Of course, some people want to do good things for Poland, and others want to do good things for Poland, but I would insist that there are small differences. The transfer from the FIO fund to the committee will also slightly change the possibilities of using these funds, because, as the FIO was in the family ministry, social projects were necessarily promoted, at the expense of other projects where applications and applications were submitted by NGOs. I think that's a good thing, too. The Act does not impose any new obligations on civil society organisations. We don't impose any new obligations. On the contrary, we introduced e.g. provisions on the conditions for obtaining funds and we have adopted 4 conditions. In the case of the FIO these conditions were probably 26. When it's 4, it's easier to share it fairly. When it was 26, the level of discretion was much, much higher. So we made a good move here, too, in my opinion. Here to see Senator Zdrojewska, because you... Oh, there he is, Senator. Because you were talking about how we want to change things when there are already solutions in other countries that have worked out. That's what you said. Yeah, whatever. In any event, the establishment of this centre is in line with practices in other Western countries. We're not discovering any America here. These are widely known and widely used solutions. In many countries, there are institutions involved in cooperation between public administrations and NGOs. There were also allegations here that some organisations are having difficulty obtaining these funds because there are complicated procedures. We will adopt the proposal for a significant simplification of grant procedures. This is about these mythical little organizations. I say'mythical' because some people question that they are small because some of them are numerically small, but they have big money and some have a lot of members and very little money. I think Senator Rooster knows something about it. There was a charge that there were no solutions that would allow the funding of smaller local civil society organisations. It's Mr. Senator... [[I'm here.]] Yes, yes, Mr. Augustine said... [[Augustine.]] Excuse me. Excuse me. [[You haven't been an Augustine yet.]] Senator Augustine. Excuse me. Well, I'll read it. Art. Paragraph 24 1 will support organisations that want to actively participate in the creation of local policy, e.g. organisations involved in the activities of local public benefit councils and municipal senior councils. Art. Paragraph 24 2 will provide support to local security organisations and civil media. Art. Paragraph 24 3 will allow for the implementation of the programme to support volunteering, and especially its most difficult forms, namely systematic and long-term volunteering, the body of solidarity. There are records, Senator. They clearly indicate that we will be able to help such organisations. And one last thing. There have been allegations of our evil intentions regarding who we can help, who we can't. Well, maybe I'll make such a declaration in the High House... [[Exactly.]] I'm not a conservative. I've always been connected to the center current. I was. Senator Zdrojewska can confirm this with a pre-August opposition activist, then with a solidarity. Then I set up various organizations, I set up a Democratic Center, where we were with the senator, then the Centre Agreement. And that's the current that I identify with. There are conservatives in my party, of course, but I'll have a big influence on what's going on in this center. Conservative In such a classic sense I am not, and I do not think that we are at risk of dividing organizations into right-wing and left-wing organizations. If organisations operate legally, they have a chance to submit applications and I hope they will receive funds. We just want to help those who are having trouble preparing these applications, because here you really need to have some legal knowledge, you need to have some infrastructure, etc., etc. We want to help them. And that's all we really want to do about it. Of course, if we help them, it'll be more competition. But I don't think that big organizations that have many years of experience are in any way affected by what we're going to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the prevention of drug addiction. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is contained in print No 354 and the committee's report In print No 354 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Everyone, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The proposed legislative initiative is a response to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which stated that the existing regulations, which provided for the loss of tools or other objects which served to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen!]] ...felony violations, violations of the constitution, of course in this respect... in a situation where such liability violates the eternal principle of nullum crimen sine poena, which means there is no crime or crime without guilt. Indeed, the regulation providing for the loss of the tool which was used to commit the crime did not take into account that often the owner of this tool did not know that, for example. His car is used to commit a crime, so let's say a son who's been involved in drug trafficking or other criminal activities. We are therefore amending the Criminal Code and the Code of Offences by a regulation which provides that a misdemeanor may be ordered only if the owner of that object, who is to be forfeited, or someone else entitled to that object, provided that the object could serve or be destined to commit the offence, or that it could have been foreseen by the care required under the circumstances in question. Here is the proposal to add §7a to the article. 44 criminal code. And the same regulation is proposed in relation to Article. 30 §2 of the Code of Offences, after which it is proposed to add the corresponding content of §2a, so as to narrow down this responsibility of owners or people otherwise entitled to such objects which were to be forfeited, to those only where, as I said, those persons could predict that these objects could serve or be destined to commit a crime, or could have foreseen this under the care required under certain circumstances. Of course, this proposal has been accepted. If I remember correctly, 100% The senators were in favour, so the union was voted out. I ask for the adoption of a draft of this law which executes the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u63	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the Legislative Commission has also authorised Senator Zbigniew Cichonia to represent it. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We have Minister Michał Woś, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? No. Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to the government representative present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. The third one read would only cover the vote. It shall be held with other votes. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have exhausted the agenda, we are now just waiting for a vote and a break for the committee meeting. It's 12:43. Dismissed until 1:45 p.m. But first, messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u64	High Senate! Joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications for the Act on the National Institute of Freedom The Centre for Civil Society Development, Senate print No.588, will take place 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in room 182. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u65	Thank you. Okay, we're adjourned until 1:45. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 44 to 13 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u66	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senatski print No 596 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on road traffic and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Assistance Act. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 597 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u67	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy proposes to adopt an amendment to the Law on Social Assistance without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u68	Thank you, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Jan Filip Libicki and Senator Mieczysław Augustyn? [[Voice from the room: They don't want to.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 50 for, 26 against. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Social Assistance Act. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security, signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have presented a single-sounding draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints Nos 592 A and 592 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security, signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016. We are returning to the 15th agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation, drawn up in Santo Domingo on 25 October 2016. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 591 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation, drawn up in Santo Domingo on 25 October 2016. We are returning to the 16th agenda: the National Freedom Institute Act The Center for Civil Society Development. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate, prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 588 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, after a joint meeting, request the High Senate to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u70	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? I will remind those who are senators: Senator Władysław Komarnicki, Mr Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Mr Senator Piotr Wach, Senator Ryszard Bonisławski, Jan Rulewski, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Andrzej Kobiak, Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Jarosław Duda. In addition, the committee's rapporteurs were Senator Mieczysław Augustyn The minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy; Senator Jan Filip Libicki The minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy; Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions; Senator Alexander Pociej The minority of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions; and Senator Jan Rulewski A minority of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u71	Because I filed a motion for rejection... I'm maintaining this motion. I think this bill is a terrible act. The preamble will prevent a whole range of non-governmental organisations from applying for the funds that will be placed in this new institution, the institution of freedom. So I think this is another law that is subjecting the PiS government to a whole range of non-governmental organizations... [[All of it? I'm sorry, all of it?]] Yeah, all of it, all of it. [[All of it. Good. Please.]] ...although I think these organizations can handle it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u72	Would any of these senators like to speak? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if it is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if both proposals are rejected. We are voting on the motion for a minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions, the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and Senator Władysław Komarnicki, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Piotr Wach to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 26 for, 52 against. [[Voting No 26]] In the event of rejection of the motion to reject the bill, we shall proceed... [[Formal conclusion.]] Excuse me? [[Formal conclusion.]] But in the middle of a vote? What kind of... [[Mr. Marshal didn't read my name, he didn't say I was an applicant either.]] [[It was. He's been reading.]] [[He read, he read.]] I've read it. [[No.]] Mr. Senator, I've read it. [[I'm sorry.]] You haven't heard. I've read it. This is not a formal conclusion, Senator, Counselor. Well, what's the formal conclusion? Excuse me. [[Isn't that a motion?]] No, Mr. Senator. Please read the regulations. You're referring to laws and regulations, and you don't know laws or laws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In view of the rejection of the proposal to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 52 votes against, 26 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the National Freedom Institute Act. The Center for Civil Society Development. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Code of Offences. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 583 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u73	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions at their meeting yesterday considered the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law amending the Law and presented the following position to the High Senate: adopt a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u74	Thank you, Senator. Do Senator Jan Rulewski or the other Senator rapporteur Rafał Ambrozik still want to speak? [[No. Thank you very much.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 53 votes against, 26 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 28]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the Code of Offences. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 594 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment request amendments Nos 4, 5, 8 and 9 and reject the other amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u76	Thank you. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek and Senator Robert Mamątów submitted their conclusions during the discussion. No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 reduces the maximum rate of recycling charge to 20 gr per piece of lightweight plastic bag. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 27 for, 49 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 1 was rejected. Amendments 2 and 6 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 3 and 7. Amendments 2 and 6 provide that the levy will be the revenue of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and will be allocated to air protection and the implementation of the circular economy. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted against, 2 against, 77 against. [[Voting No 30]] The amendment was rejected. Amendments 3 and 7 provide that the proceeds from the recycling levy will be revenue from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 26 for, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 4 clarifies the reference contained in the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 is the consequence of an amendment to the Cleanliness and Order Act in municipalities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 eliminates language error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 9 sets out the maximum 12-month duration of the existing Regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 11 provides that the recycling levy will be levied from 1 January 2019. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted against, 26 votes against, 51 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 36]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 58 votes against, 1 against and 20 abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Packaging and Packaging Waste Management and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. The Committee on the Environment presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print No 595 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 78 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the prevention of drug addiction. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 354 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committee in print No 354 S, and to the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 74, so all of them, in favour. [[Voting No 39]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on criminal offences and the law on criminal offences and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 40th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that the agenda for the next meeting, scheduled for 18 and 19 October, will be sent to you by e-mail. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within the time available, i.e. 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? I know you do. First Senator Jerzy Wczyła. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I declare and address the ministers: Mr Marek Grybarczyk, Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, and Mr Mariusz Gajda, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment. Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! During the night from 17 to 18 September heavy rains flooded part of the city of Elbląg and the districts of Elbląg and Bravsk. The losses were estimated at at at least PLN 15 million. Most In the city of Elbląg. It is very likely that a large part of these losses will have to be covered by local governments. However, it is more important to disclose the fact that Żuławskie communes, and above all on the edge of Żuławy and Wysoczyzna Elbląska, are not prepared for the flood situation. The Żuławy region is an anthropomorphic region, which was created as a result of the symbiosis of natural and human forces and whose existence depends entirely on the infrastructure created by man. Only in the area of these two districts and Elbląg there are more than 1 thousand 400 km of rivers and canals, more than 400 km of flood shafts, more than 1 thousand 800 structures affecting flood safety and tens of kilometres of drainage ditches. Many of these courses, facilities and devices were rebuilt as part of the first phase of the comprehensive flood protection programme Żuławy, which was worth about PLN 520 million, completed in 2015. Unfortunately, just a few hours of rain showed that this huge estate did not provide security for the people of Żuław Elbląg or the people of Elbląg. I would like to ask the ministers, firstly, to review the infrastructure under the responsibility of the ministries, including watercourses and reservoirs, affecting flood safety and causing it to be quickly brought to the right state, secondly, to develop procedures for flood risk management in agreement with the municipalities of the municipalities and old-fashioned districts of Bravsk and Elbląg, thirdly, to establish a crisis management structure in the period of flooding and flood risk throughout the area of Żuław Elbląskie, fourthly to implement an infrastructure allowing emergency water discharge from watercourses in emergency situations to reach areas where flooding will cause minimal losses, thereby reducing the risk of urbanised and inhabited areas. Please inform us of the decisions taken and possible deadlines for implementing actions that could lead to a reduction in flood risk. Please also inform whether the second stage of the Żuławski programme is being implemented according to the timetable and if not, what are the reasons for delays. I would also ask you to consider whether similar actions should not be taken in the case of Żuław Wielki and Gdański. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Jan Filip Libicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I am sending my senator's statement to the Minister of Finance, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, and to Mr Zbigniew Jagiełła, President of PKO Bank Polski SA. I allow myself from time to time to use the formula of senator statements for certain interventions which are asked of me by those who turn to me. This intervention concerns the availability of Bank PKO BP SA located in Koluszki at ul. Brzezinska 23 for people with disabilities. I was approached by a lady who pointed out that she also sent me pictures. On the one hand, it does not fulfil its function, and on the other hand it blocks part of the sidewalk, which is also moved by people who are working. I went through those photos. Indeed, the matter is at least unclear and, therefore, I would like to ask Mr Morawiecki, President Jagiełła, to examine and present his position on this matter, and if he considers that this indication that this intervention is justified, he will make this place accessible to disabled people so that it is uncollided. I myself have repeatedly used the services of this bank and I know that it is a bank for people with disabilities generally friendly. If something is really wrong in this one case and the bank authorities will take action to change it, I will be extremely obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u80	Thank you, Senator. Senator Swede, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I'd like to make a statement to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. On 21 September 2017, a great tragedy took place in Land-Zdrój. In the fire, which digested 3 city buildings in the area of the historic market, a roof over the head and a life's work lost dozens of people. People were deprived of their property in just a few hours, despite a professional and committed firefighter's rescue operation. I thank the services, the fire department and the police for their efficient rescue and the services of the voivodeship for their assistance and support to those affected at this difficult time. However, in the face of such great drama, I would like to raise a question addressed to the Ministry of Interior and Administration concerning the identification of all possible forms of aid which would at least in part compensate for the losses suffered by the inhabitants of Land-Zdrój. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Arthur Warzocha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out in an appalling case that the District Court in Częstochowa has for several years issued judgments on the basis of opinions submitted to court files by a false fugitive. My office has been approached by persons who have been harmed by court decisions based on such opinions. For several years these people have been unsuccessful in fighting for justice and are trying to undermine the actions taken in their judicial cases by an unauthorised person. For years, however, they have come across misunderstandings and indifference in their undoubtedly difficult situation. For several years in cases conducted in the District Court in Częstochowa, the Civil Division and the Civil Division of Non-Professional Affairs, as a judicial expert, there was a person who was not included in the list of judicial experts and was not, in fact, a judicial expert. This person worked in one of the departments of the Częstochowa City Hall, and the wife of this person was a judge ruling in Częstochowa court. Despite the absence of an entry in the list of judicial experts led by the President of the District Court, the person used the title of the Geodesy fugitive court, taking part in the hearings and drawing up geodetic opinions in matters which are extremely relevant to the parties in relation to real estate, where evidence from the opinion of the surveyor is most often evidence prevailing, such as sitting or abolishing co-ownership. Moreover, the person also used a stamp with such a title, misleading as regards the title of persons involved in judicial proceedings. Fake, runaway, issued survey opinions at the request of the court, firmly presenting his position in them. These opinions were the basis of grossly unfavourable judgments. The result of these judgments was e.g. obligation to pay At present, large amounts ..unfavorable distribution of real estate or the loss of property belonging to one family for many years. The activity of the false fugitive had a significant negative impact on the lives of many people, inhabitants of Częstochowa and surrounding areas who struggled with the consequences of the work of this alleged fugitive until today. Persons harmed by court decisions based on a false opinion of a fugitive have complained of court decisions by civil means and have applied to law enforcement authorities for criminal proceedings. The victims argued in criminal proceedings that the survey opinions were illegible, not based on all the documents available, and that they are in conflict with the facts and are in breach of existing ownership. In one of the criminal cases, the criminal department of the court in Częstochowa found the alleged fugitive guilty of committing the alleged act of drawing up a geodesic opinion in which he testified untruths and sentenced him to it. However, this judgment was amended by the District Court in Częstochowa, at the second instance, which ultimately acquitted the alleged fugitive from the alleged act. In other cases in which the injured persons reported to the prosecutor's office for the activity of a false fugitive, the District Attorney's Office in Gliwice dismissed the proceedings. In turn, the District Prosecutor's Office of Częstochowa-North in Częstochowa refused to open an investigation against the alleged fugitive. After getting information on the matter presented to you today from the people who have asked me to my office, I went to the prosecutor's office, the general surveyor of the country, the Minister of Justice. The Attorney General and the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland to clarify this appalling matter. Unfortunately, my actions did not produce the expected result. I am directing my statement through your marshal to the Minister of Justice, asking you to take a look at this case. The injured are now in a difficult situation of property and life as a result of a person without a judicial title, yet giving a ruling that is vital to the lives of these citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Beata Szydło. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to speak about recently hot and medially, about the reparations and compensation due to Poland and Poles from Germany for losses suffered during World War II. I address the Prime Minister, not e.g. to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because the matter of reparation is a national issue, a national one, not a resort one. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs can serve as a tool, an executive body, e.g. during negotiations with Germany, but the decision-maker should be the whole government, and the Prime Minister in particular. My statement justifies the fact that I introduced the concept of reparation into parliamentary space: 28 August 2003 as a representative of a group of Members of the applicants I submitted a draft resolution of the Sejm on the reparation of Germany to Poland to the Marshal's staff. The text of this resolution in the extended version of the Sejm adopted on 10 September 2004 practically unanimously. Unfortunately, the then SLD government did not perform the obligations imposed on it, even contesting the main statements of this resolution and adopting German optics. In particular, the government did not count the losses of Poland and Poles resulting from the aggression of Germany during World War II. These losses have not been calculated until today. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to make a few comments on the current state of the discussion on the reparation. Firstly, it is clear that the German side will defend itself in all possible ways against their payout and even by introducing the subject into the sphere of international relations. We should prepare ourselves well for this and do some work before internationalising this topic and even before officially putting the issue of reparation in bilateral relations with Germany. These measures include, first, the detailed, accurate and reliable calculation of the losses in each category. Human losses; material losses: states, local governments, organizations and people, Poles; lost benefits and opportunities for development We suffered from Germany during and during World War II. Such an account was, moreover, called for in the 2004 resolution. In order to perform this task fairly and quickly, it is necessary to create a special cell consisting of specialised scientists. It can be an independent cell, directly subordinate to e.g. Prime Minister, or an affiliate at the Institute of National Remembrance. Secondly, in order to create the right pressure, I believe that organizational activities should be started now to create a museum of martyrdom and loss of Poland and Poles during the Second World War. It should be a modern facility, just like the museums recently created, located in the capital city of the country. It's in Warsaw. Its task would be to display the data referred to above in one centrally located and accessible place. For obvious reasons, museums, monuments of history scattered throughout the country, in extermination sites, in former concentration camps, labor or POWs cannot function as such. The exhibition role of our losses is also not fulfilled by the Museum of World War II in Gdańsk, which is related to a broader historical theme, concerning the armed effort, the course of fights fought not only in Poland and by Poles. The nature of our Polish museum of war losses should be similar to that of the Yad Vashem Institute. Most importantly, since its opening in the program of any official visit of foreign delegation to Poland, it should be mandatory to visit this museum. Of course, in addition to the educational function directed outside the country, the museum would also serve as a document of our war losses to Poles, especially to young people. In the framework of patriotic education at school. The two projects described above seem necessary for me to carry out even if we do not decide as a state to formally demand a reparation of war from Germany. They will certainly increase the effectiveness of media and propaganda action on current policies in bilateral relations with Germany, in which raising the issue of reparations is as clear as possible about attempts to re-distribute the roles of the victim and the aggressor of the German side. I'd like to express my respects. Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-senat-47-5.u86	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of people willing to speak has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the Bureau... As soon as the meeting is closed, we will begin the Bureau meeting. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. Forty-seventh session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 14 minutes 20]]
