ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I am calling for the secretaries of today's proceedings for Daniel Milewski, Małgorzata Golinski, Adam Andruszkiewicz and Wojciech the King. Members Daniel Milewski and Małgorzata Golińska will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Daniel Milewski and Adam Andruszkiewicz. I consider the minutes of the 34th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Izbo, I would like to inform you that in connection with the expiry of the mandate of Mr Rafał Wójcikowski on the basis of the article. 251 § 5 of the electoral code I have decided to replace Małgorzata Janowska, who has taken the oath of a Member of Parliament. I ask Mrs Małgorzata Janowska to come closer to the Presidency table and, ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mrs Małgorzata Janowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u2	I promise.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u3	Thank you. Thank you very much. I state that Małgorzata Janowska has taken a vow of marriage. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending the Individual Income Tax Act. The project is print number 1258. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. The committee responsible has submitted reports on draft laws: - the National Agricultural Support Centre, - Provisions introducing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The reports shall be printed in 1245 and 1246 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Public Finance Commission has submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other Acts, - the exchange of tax information with other countries. The reports shall be printed in 1266 and 1267 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hold an average debate on the information of the Foreign Minister on the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2017. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on information to the Sejm and the Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2016. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in a joint discussion of the committee's reports on draft laws concerning the National Agricultural Support Centre. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the situation in the labour market, the lowest in the history of unemployment and the rise in wages in the economy, facilitations for companies and new investment zones, innovation as part of development policy, which was requested by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Member to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10, - Legal notice - hour. 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 13, - Culture and Media - hour 13.30, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 2.30 p.m., - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Foreign Affairs - hour 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 4:30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 17, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 17, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 18, - Foreign Affairs - hour 18, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 6:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Digitalization, Innovation, IT and High-Tech - hour 13.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Cluster policy - hour 14.15, - Parliamentary Group for: Chemical Industry - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Team for Decent, Community and Inclusive Organising in 2018 of the 100th anniversary of the Recovering of Independence by Poland - hour. 17, - Opole Parliamentary Team - hour 17, - Parliamentary Team of Friends of Gdynia and the Little Tricity of Kashubian - hour. 6:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u5	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government bill amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws (Prints No. 991 and 1192). I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u6	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws together with draft implementing acts, print Nos 991 and 1192. This work took place both in the subcommittee on financial institutions and in the committee itself. They were long hours. The subject matter of this bill is extremely complicated, especially since it still involves, please, in addition to the amendments, the implementation of EU legislation, including financial instruments. For an average person, these things are rather incomprehensible, although I honestly admit that even for financial law professionals many of these records are so complicated that you have to read them several times to figure out what the author meant. Because as you know, it's not about who's making the law, it's about who's preparing the law. Most often here, I would say, we can find the cause of such excessive legislation that we are observing, especially as regards EU legislation. This is, in our view, one of the main problems of the Union - the phenomenon of some hyperinflation of law, i.e. alleged legal order, which actually complicates the legal system. In addition, we have practically every day new regulations, directives, opinions, recommendations, and all this must be included in national legislation. Often, ladies and gentlemen, there is very serious money and great financial interests of all kinds of lobby behind such EU directives. I ask you, when going to prints no. 991 and 1192, it must be said that the meaning of all these actions were changes in Polish legislation on the 2014 Act on the amendment of the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. They abolished the requirement to register derivatives in a CSD system. These derivatives are extremely complex, you can say, financial-bank products, today also called weapons of mass destruction, financial weapons of mass destruction, or famous derivatives. Such a form of a kind of casino, betting - practically everything. As Paul Volcker used to say, former head of the Fed, derivatives brought the world closer to disaster. They were one of the causes of the big financial crisis in 2008. I ask you, the need, the purpose of the proposed law was to abolish the division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market, because as a result of subsequent changes in the rules on the functioning of the domestic capital market, in particular the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, there has been practically a reduction in differences in the functioning of the stock market and the over-the-counter market. The purpose of the draft law is therefore to abolish the unjustified division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market at the moment, and this regulation will result in the inclusion of all the listed types of that market in the same draft regulated market. The aim is also to regulate the institution's derivatives account. It is also a matter of ensuring that the Financial Supervision Authority has adequate access to information about all organised derivatives and derivatives admitted to trading. It will therefore provide the supervisory authority with effective supervisory tools to enable it to properly assess its trading in financial instruments. This also implies a change in the authority issuing the permit to hold the stock exchange. The consequences of the proposed changes will also be important changes in the provisions of other laws, starting with the Commercial Companies Code, through the Trade Exchanges Act, bankruptcy law, investment fund law, and the Public Offering Act. We can say that we will practically have to notice major changes in a significant number of provisions. The work was exhausting, actually it could be said that it was going without more confrontation. And that's where I'd like to end it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u7	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Iwona Michalek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. Abolition of division... As a result of subsequent changes in the rules on the functioning of the national capital market over the last few years, the differences in the functioning of the stock market and the OTC market have been actually overcome. Similarly, Union law does not provide for such a distinction between regulated market operators. At the same time, the definition of a regulated market as an OTC market may mislead about his character. This is due to the fact that the term "over-the-counter market' is not reflected in the commonly functioning nomenclature resulting from European rules transposed by Member States into national legal systems. The purpose of the bill is therefore to abolish the unjustified division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market at present. Regulation will result in the inclusion of these types of markets in the same regulatory market concept. Ladies and gentlemen! The consequences of the proposed changes are also the need to equip the supervisory authority with effective supervisory tools to ensure effective supervision of the safety and regularity of secondary trading of financial instruments, in particular to determine the scope of investments carried out by entities not operating in the territory of the Republic of Poland, which are parties to stock exchange transactions and which are not obliged under the regulations in force in Poland to record transactions concluded on derivatives on any accounts. To this end, the draft law provides for the power of the Financial Supervision Commission to apply directly to these entities for relevant information. At the same time, it is necessary to stress that the changes envisaged in this respect do not affect the scope of supervision of investment firms at European level in the field of capital market law. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, the proposed solution will eliminate the significant interpretation doubts identified in the administrative procedures to date for the authorisation of stock exchanges. Practical application of the provisions of Article. 25 of the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments leads to the conclusion that, after the Commission has forwarded a request to the Minister responsible for Financial Institutions for the authorisation of holding a stock exchange, in the event of a change of this proposal during the administrative procedure conducted by the Minister, there is no legal basis for asking the committee to give an opinion on the changes made to it. It may therefore appear that the opinion of the committee will be unrelated to the facts in the event that the party makes substantial changes to the proposal after it has been forwarded by the committee to the Minister responsible for financial institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, please accept the proposed amendments and I would like to make amendments on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. The amendments concern Article. 1, the following point is inserted after point 15a. Next amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 31b (1) - the other wording of this Article. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 13 after point 1, the following point 1a is inserted, including the following: The following point 2a is inserted after point 2: Dear Marshal! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I submit amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u9	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Monica Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws. Over the past few years, further changes have been made to the rules that have concerned the functioning of the domestic capital market, which has consequently led to the elimination of differences in the functioning of the stock market and the over-the-counter market. It is therefore appropriate to abolish the division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market. The actual differences between markets are not relevant enough to consider it justified to further distinguish between two types of regulated market. Distinctions to the stock market and over-the-counter market are also not provided for by EU law. In addition, the definition of a regulated market as an OTC market may be misleading as to its nature. The concept of over-the-counter market is not reflected in the functioning terminology that results from European legislation. The introduction of the proposed amendments will require the adaptation of the provisions of other laws: the Act on Accounting, the Act on Paid Motorways and the National Road Fund, but also the Act on Energy Law, the Act on Commercial Companies Code, the Act on Trade Exchanges, the Act on Insolvency Law, the Act on Investment Funds and the Management of Alternative Investment Funds, the Act on Public Offering and Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies, as well as the Act on Supervision of the Financial Market. High Izbo! The aim of the project is to abolish the division of the regulated market into the stock market and over-the-counter market, and as a result of their inclusion in the general concept of the regulated market. According to this project, the company that currently operates the stock exchange market, the Warsaw Stock Exchange SA, and the company that operates the OTC market, BondSpot SA, will become companies operating two separate regulated markets. The draft provides for appropriate transitional periods for the adjustment of both companies' activities. In addition, the project envisages the introduction of rules on the institution's derivatives account. The new regulations will define the entities authorised to keep records of derivatives, clarify the scope of the authorisations to keep such records, while identifying the records on which derivatives are to be recorded, and specify the rules for determining the holders of the derivative, the rules for transferring rights and obligations from certain derivatives. The new regulations will also facilitate the Financial Supervision Commission's access to information on derivatives and the activities of individual investors in the trading of these financial instruments. The project also envisages a change in the authority which issues permits to conduct the stock exchange market, from the Minister responsible for Financial Institutions to the Financial Supervision Commission. With this change it will shorten, we hope, the process of licensing stock exchanges. The Financial Supervision Commission will therefore be the competent authority to withdraw the authorisation to hold the stock exchange and to prohibit the conduct of the regulated market. High Izbo, the Civic Platform Club is in favour of this report. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u11	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u12	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a position regarding the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, prints No. 991 and 1192. The amendment of the law provides for three fundamental amendments. The first concerns the abolition of the division of the regulated market into the stock market and over-the-counter market. The current distribution of the regulated market was based on the assumption that the OTC market, due to greater formal freedom and lower requirements for companies wishing to issue their securities, would be intended for small and medium-sized enterprises. However, the unification of the rules in subsequent years has caused clear differences between the two types of regulated market to be blurred. So closing the time limits on the stock market and over-the-counter market is an idea that we can support. The proposed changes are also a step towards adapting the Polish law to EU rules, which do not provide in the commonly functioning nomenclature for the concept of the OTC market. Another proposed amendment is the introduction of rules on the institution's derivatives account. The Financial Supervision Commission will be granted new powers and will be able to request information on investments in Poland by non-business entities in Poland which are party to stock exchange transactions and are not required to record transactions on derivatives on any accounts. The third change envisaged by the project's authors is the change of the authority issuing the authorisation to operate the regulated market. So far, he has been Minister of Finance. The novel deprives him of this right, while imposing an obligation related to it on the Commission for Financial Supervision. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Modern Club hopes that the announced changes and strengthening of the role of the Financial Supervision Commission and the harmonisation of the market will not adversely affect the functioning of the stock exchange sector of financial instruments and all those present. All our doubts about this matter were not resolved during the committee work. We recommend this draft report and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u13	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. These are 991 and 1192 prints. The draft law abolishes the division of the regulated market in financial instruments into the stock market and over-the-counter market and provides for both types of market to be covered by the same concept of regulated market. Years ago, the OTC market was a market, it seems, less formalized and with lower requirements for issuers. The differences involved another entity issuing the market authorisation, namely the stock market was the responsibility of the Minister of Finance and the OTC market was the responsibility of the Financial Supervision Commission. The next difference is the value of the existing equity capital - in listed companies it is the amount of 10 million, in the OTC market it is the amount of 5 million. And the third difference is another legal basis for the provision of current and periodic information by issuers of securities. The differences I mention, in fact, as a result of the changes to the rules introduced so far have been blurred, and hence the harmonisation of the rules on the functioning of the regulated market is an appropriate process, fully justified. The work on the project continued both in the subcommittee for financial institutions and in the Committee on Public Finances, and before that it was also consulted. The project, although quite extensive in its content, is actually a technical project with proposals for uniform solutions for the entire regulated market. According to the draft, the authority empowered to issue the authorisation and to prohibit the conduct of the regulated market is the Financial Supervision Commission. It is the KNF that is also equipped with numerous supervisory tools to ensure the supervision of the safety and regularity of trading of financial instruments. In addition, in order to ensure the safety of trading and the supervision of the forward market, the proposed law provides for the introduction of a derivatives account in which derivatives admitted to trading will be recorded. It should also be noted that the project contains solutions that already exist in the Member States of the European Union. Thus, in summary, the Act should contribute to reducing the number of procedures, reducing the number of documents relating to the conduct of a regulated market by one common procedure, and to shortening the authorisation process and the use of transparent supervisory tools. In general, the project is well founded, it also includes numerous laws affected by this subject, and my club, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, supports the project discussed today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u15	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project concerns the abolition of the division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market, the introduction of rules on the derivatives account institution and the change of the authority issuing the permit to hold the stock exchange. This project, addressing specific organisational, legal and interpretation problems, is intended to contribute to the safe, stable and compliant development of the capital market in Poland at European level. The purpose of the bill is therefore to abolish the unjustified division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market at present. Regulation will result in the inclusion of these types of markets in the same regulatory market concept. Introduce regulations for derivatives account institutions, among others. define the entities authorised to keep records of derivatives and specify the scope of the authorisations to keep such records while identifying the reporting facilities on which the derivatives are to be recorded. Rules for determining the holders of a derivative instrument and the transfer of rights and obligations from certain derivatives will also be indicated. In turn, the main purpose of the change of the authority issuing the authorisation to conduct a regulated market from the Minister responsible for Financial Institutions to the Financial Supervision Commission is to shorten the licensing process in Poland of the exchanges of financial instruments and to focus matters related to the supervision of the capital market in its entirety in a legally appointed body, which is the Commission for Financial Supervision. The proposed changes are rather technical and non-controversial. The Free and Solidarni Circle is in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u17	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I close the list of Members. And the question is asked by Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this law is good, correct - it is about aligning the regulation of the stock market and over-the-counter market and more effective supervision of the entire capital market. I have a question about Polish brokerage houses. Will Polish brokerage houses be able to advertise their services and products fully? Because the very fact of this possibility through the media, the Internet, television, radio or other mediums in the form of large surface plates gives opportunities to promote new products and develop the capital market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u19	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Piotr Nowak will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u20	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the current form of the bill, it turned out that there would be such a problem, but as far as I am concerned, an amendment was proposed by the Member, which will regulate this type of thing and straighten it out, so that Polish brokerage offices will be able to advertise. Of course, direct marketing will not be allowed, i.e. such spot marketing, ugly to say solicitation of customers, while normal wide advertising in the media, in the press, on large surface billboards will be completely available. Thank you very much. [[Thanks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u21	Thank you very much, sir. Would the rapporteur like to speak? If you don't, I'm closing the discussion. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws (prints Nos 1097 and 1266). I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the continuation of this problem, which I mentioned a few minutes ago, which concerns the implementation of EU legislation on derivatives, both directives and regulations - the MAD, the MAR Regulation or the CSDR. This is generally intended to implement EU rules on derivatives. It is a very complicated legal formula as regards the obligations that will therefore be imposed on us. I would like to say that she introduces a whole range of very important penalties in this area, concerning the manipulation of the derivatives market, also the prison penalty from 2 to even 4 years, very high financial penalties, which aroused some controversy during the work of the subcommittee in particular, but also yesterday in the Committee on Public Finance. It is about penalties of over PLN 80 million for legal persons and more than 20 million for natural persons in respect of those institutions which supervise whether they are depositaries of these market activities. These high penalties raised doubts. They were sure here, I'd say even controversy. Government representatives have pointed out to us that these are EU requirements arising from the wording of the directive itself, that they are intended to increase the security of these securities settlement systems in the EU markets. It can be said that in some sense they are significantly precise and reorganizing this market, but the point is that in some sense it is all tailored to our economic, financial realities. There were opinions of representatives of the capital market-related environments who said that they were afraid that such extremely strict records would not result in any lack of interest or much less interest in new issues, whether it would not be some formula of displacement from the Polish market of these Polish entities by those stronger foreign entities, which, of course, such penalties can be much easier to accept, including their costs. So this is a rather debatable issue, as regards liability, about these penalties in terms of responsibility of supervisory boards, members of supervisory boards of listed companies. In any case, after quite long, long hours of yesterday's work of the finance committee, we have prepared a report in the form that we are presenting to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u23	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The primary objective of the draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws is to implement into the Polish legal order Directive 2014/57/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on criminal sanctions for market abuse. In addition, the aim of the project is to enable the application of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories. The MAD Directive and the MAR Regulation replace Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on insider dealing and market manipulation. The general objective of the new regulation is to enhance investor protection by ensuring market integrity, a coherent approach to abuse and a level playing field, which is to be achieved by updating and harmonising the catalogues for regulation of financial instruments and markets, strengthening the powers of supervisory authorities to conduct market abuse proceedings, and limiting the option and freedom of Member States to formulate appropriate rules, thereby strengthening the dissuasive nature of market abuse penalties, as the rapporteur said. According to the MAD, criminal sanctions for the most serious abuses are to be imposed on both natural persons and legal persons, with legal persons subject to sanctions covering both fines and non-criminal fines. The MAR Regulation introduces and clarifies the definition of market manipulation and confidential information, while regulating what is the use of confidential information and in which cases the use of information is authorised. In connection with the implementation of the MAD Directive and the possibility of the application of the MAR Regulation, the draft law also provides for amendments to certain other legal acts, such as the Banking Law, the Trade Exchange Act, the Corporate Liability Act for acts prohibited under penalty, the Investment Funds Act and the Alternative Investment Fund Management Act, and the Capital Market Surveillance Act and the Financial Market Surveillance Act. The proposal does not require it to be submitted to the bodies and institutions of the European Union in order to obtain an opinion, notification, consultation or agreement. The draft law is compatible with European Union law. The Law and Justice Club will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u25	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Monica Wielichowska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I will present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, this is print No. 1097. High Izbo! The purpose of the draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws is to implement into the Polish legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Criminal Sanctions for Market Abuse - it is the MAD Directive, the Market Abuse Directive - and thus to implement within the framework of national law the objectives set by the EU legislature. The regulations contained in the proposal will also serve to apply the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on market abuse, which is the MAR Regulation. Furthermore, the aim of the project is to enable the application of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories. The project will enhance the security of securities settlement systems that operate in the Union and improve their efficiency. The MAD Directive and the MAR Regulation replace the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on insider dealing and market manipulation. The aim of the new regulation is primarily to enhance investor protection while ensuring market integrity, a coherent approach to abuse and a level playing field, which is to be achieved by updating and clarifying the catalogue of financial instruments and markets; strengthening the powers of supervisors to conduct market abuse proceedings; limiting the option and freedom of Member States to formulate appropriate rules and thereby strengthening the dissuasive nature of penalties for market abuse. As a result of the revision of Directive 2003/6/EC, it has been noted that not all competent national authorities had at their disposal a full range of powers that would enable them to respond to market abuse through appropriate sanctions. In particular, not all Member States have provided for administrative fines for insider dealing and market manipulation. In order to eliminate fraud that undermines the integrity of financial markets and investor confidence in financial instruments as well as in the market itself, the European legislator has decided that criminal sanctions for fraud in the financial market will be regulated at the level of the MAD. In particular, that Directive obliges Member States to impose criminal sanctions to a maximum extent of at least 4 years of imprisonment for the use of confidential information, to recommend or to encourage the use of confidential information and to manipulate the financial market and to impose criminal sanctions to a maximum extent of at least 2 years of imprisonment for unlawful disclosure of confidential information. The MAR Regulation introduces and clarifies the definitions of market manipulation and confidential information, while regulating what is the use of confidential information and in which cases the use of information is authorised. High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will be in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u27	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u28	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a position regarding the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, prints no. 1097 and 1266. The project aims to implement European Union law and concerns strengthening the protection of participants in the Polish capital market, including individual investors in public companies, and increasing the security of trading on the capital market through inter alia. to increase the maximum penalty from 3 to 4 years of imprisonment for disclosure of confidential information, to recommend or to encourage the acquisition or disposal of the financial instruments concerned. The introduction of regulation will result in the progressive elimination of unauthorised use of confidential information and capital market abuse and will enhance security and efficiency of securities settlement systems. The protection of investors will therefore be enhanced by ensuring market integrity or a coherent approach to abuse and by strengthening the powers of supervisors needed to conduct market abuse proceedings. However, during the work in committee and subcommittees, institutions such as the National Securities Deposit and the Association of Securities Issuers made comments on proposals to reduce the financial penalties provided for in the draft. They were included in the subcommittee's report, and this was revised and restored at the committee's meeting from the original government project. I wanted to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that these penalties amount to as much as PLN 80 million. They are really very high and really hit Polish capital markets and Polish entrepreneurs. KNF also made comments on this issue. Therefore, on behalf of the Modern Club, I propose three amendments to this bill... You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u29	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u30	...three amendments to this draft law, which are intended to guarantee less penalties, appropriate to the type of offences. The adoption of these amendments is subject to support for the entire draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u31	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, prints no. 1097 and 1266. The project under investigation is the implementation of EU law, it is the implementation of the so-called. the MAD Directive on criminal sanctions for market abuse and the European regulation called the MAR Regulation, which serves on capital market abuse. The draft law also includes new provisions on the application of the Regulation on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories. It is called the CSDR regulation in short. The fundamental objectives of the amended law are, of course, to strengthen the protection of participants in the Polish capital market, including individual investors in public companies, and to increase the safety of trading on the capital market. In order to eliminate fraud that undermines the integrity of financial markets and investor confidence in financial instruments as well as in the market itself, it was decided that criminal sanctions for fraud would be regulated at the level of the MAD. In connection with the implementation of the MAD, the Polish legislation increased the penalty from 3 to 4 years of imprisonment for disclosure of confidential information, the provision of recommendations or the encouragement to acquire or dispose of the financial instruments concerned. On the other hand, the direct application of the MAR Regulation has resulted in maximum administrative fines for non-compliance with that Regulation. They are very, drastically high against the Polish law so far. The draft of this Act, the first reading of which took place on 13 December at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, was analysed in detail by the subcommittee on financial institutions. It was then considered that the financial penalties applied initially are very high and do not conform to our Polish conditions. The subcommittee therefore proposed a reduction in the level of penalties, which was logical and appropriate. To be honest, yesterday before the committee meeting, the project wasn't exactly shocking. Unfortunately, during the work of the Committee on Public Finance yesterday, the reduced penalty rates proposed by the subcommittee were changed to the amount originally proposed. The CSDR requires Member States to have supervisory powers under national law to impose these high penalties. In the case of a natural person, it may be up to EUR 5 million, i.e. 20 670 thousand, in the case of a legal person - up to a maximum of EUR 20 million, or 82 680 thousand. zł. Similarly, the Public Finance Commission has also restored sanctions resulting from the MAR Regulation. Here it is slightly lower, because these sanctions for a natural person are at least EUR 1 million - of course the maximum ones - i.e. more than PLN 4 million, in the case of a legal person - 2.5 EUR million, or more than PLN 10 million. These rates are valid in all Member States of the European Union. These are the maximum rates, as I stressed, which may be imposed by the Financial Supervision Authority for fraud committed, but the committee is obliged to take account of, inter alia, the sanctions. the seriousness of the infringement and the financial situation of the entity to which the penalty is imposed. However, I still have to stress that, we have doubts as to whether the penalties proposed are acceptable in the end. The position of the club of the Polish People's Party will be expressed in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u33	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I invite Mr Andrzej Nobletta, club Law and Justice. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the long debate on the draft law, doubts were raised as to the level of penalties applied here. These punishments have been recalled. This is over 20 million and the top - over 80. I would like the Minister to repeat what happened at the committee meeting - which is mainly due to the level of penalties that had to be recorded in this draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u35	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Piotr Nowak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u36	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! So these penalties are the result of European regulations, and the directive imposes these penalties on us. The Directive sets the minimum level of the maximum penalty. As the Member mentioned, she said, this is EUR 20 million. That's exactly what amounts come out, for example. 82,680,000. zł. We wouldn't have imposed 82,680,000. zł. Or we could give 100 million, because it looks better, more so, preventively, or 50 - rounded amounts. So this shows that these amounts are not generated by us, but imposed by the European Union, by Brussels. Please note that the negotiation phase of this type of quota with different types of regulation at Brussels level passed a few years ago. This is a directive that was negotiated at that level a few years ago, so there is nothing we can do at this stage. Please bear in mind that this is the maximum penalty. In contrast, there are additional rules in these different regulations which say that the committee, when imposing these sanctions, i.e. penalties of this kind, must take into account inter alia. the seriousness of the infringement and the degree of responsibility of the person responsible for the infringement, but also the financial situation of the person responsible for the infringement. So just because the maximum level of punishment is actually set at a very high level doesn't mean that it will ever be achieved, so I would be so... I understand that this may sound very drastic, but practice shows that such penalties do not take place in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u37	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries (prints Nos 1091 and 1267). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 7 February this year. a meeting of the Committee on Public Finance was held, which examined the report of the Permanent Sub-Committee to monitor the tax system on the government draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries, print No 1091. The subcommittee recommended that the Public Finance Committee adopt this bill together with the amendments adopted during the subcommittee meeting after extensive discussion with representatives of the Confederation of Leviathan and the Polish Bank Association. During the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, a discussion took place with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, during which nine amendments were tabled. The amendments concerned the adaptation of the proposed law in relation to the new structure of the tax administration. The proposed amendments meet the requests made by representatives of financial institutions. The new rules are intended to replace the exchange of information on the basis of the information already submitted on interest payments. In view of the shifts in the legislative timetable and the provision of the corresponding vacathio legis, the provision setting the date of entry into force of the law has been amended. The establishment of the date of entry as at 1 May 2017 meets the expectations of financial institutions. The Committee on Public Finance accepted eight amendments and rejected one amendment. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt this bill together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Gosievski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u40	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Public Finance Commission of 7 February 2017 on the Government's draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries, originally in print No 1091. During the permanent subcommittee meeting to monitor the tax system on 11 January 2017 we introduced a series of legislative and regulatory amendments to the original bill, which strengthened the readability and precision of the proposed solutions in the government project, which implements several Council directives into the Polish legal order and amends six tax laws. The government draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries sets out the principles, modalities and characteristics of the authorities for the exchange of tax information with other countries. This draft also sets out the obligations of financial institutions for the exchange of tax information and for the automatic exchange of tax information on Reportable Accounts and for the control of their execution. It introduces regulations allowing automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation with non-EU countries. The need for mutual assistance between different tax administrations is becoming increasingly important. The mobility of taxpayers and the internationalisation of financial instruments are constantly increasing, while the process of determining the amount of taxes due is becoming increasingly difficult. Undisclosed and untaxed income significantly reduces national tax revenues. Action is therefore needed to improve the effectiveness of the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion by strongly promoting the automatic exchange of information as a future European international standard for the transparency of information exchange in tax matters. Without mutual cooperation between tax administrations, a single Member State cannot effectively combat tax fraud and tax evasion. In order to overcome the negative effects of these phenomena, it is necessary to create an appropriate system of cooperation between tax administrations. Effective administrative cooperation between Member States is needed under conditions consistent with the proper functioning of the internal market by strengthening the tools and mechanisms for the exchange of information. It is common practice in the European Union to issue interpretations of individual tax laws that facilitate consistent and transparent application of the law. The practice of explaining tax law to taxpayers allows businesses to operate under more certainty, which may encourage them to invest and comply with the law. The proposed rules also aim to strengthen activities aimed at under-taxation and income transfer between subsidiaries and the parent undertaking in the case of large-scale companies - this is a condition for exceeding EUR 750 million. Unlike small and medium-sized enterprises, the so-called. MNE groups have sufficient resources to exploit gaps in national law or international tax law to shift profits between countries in order to reduce the tax paid. The tax authorities therefore need comprehensive and reliable data on the structure, transfer pricing policy and transactions between related parties. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to introduce appropriate transparency requirements for the activities of the entities forming part of the group of entities. Greater transparency should encourage these groups of actors to reduce inappropriate practices. The scope of the reporting procedures depends on whether the account is a high-value account, since it is advisable to significantly reduce tax fraud, especially international taxpayers trading huge amounts. During the work of the Sejm in the Permanent Sub-Committee to monitor the tax system [[♪ The bell ♪]] and during the meeting of the Finance Committee on 7 February 2017, as a result of a broad discussion in this draft law, we have introduced the right, necessary legislative, linguistic and precise responsibilities of all parties, and we have defined the time for the entry into force of this draft. The very important amendment we have introduced is to adapt the bill to the structure of the National Tax Administration. To sum up...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u41	You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u42	...summingly, Your Honored Marshal, the proposed bill is another element of sealing the tax system, which will increase the revenue of the state counted in billions of zlotys. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries in print No 1267. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u43	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the government draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries, print no. 1091. The aim of the bill is to implement four directives of the Council of the European Union concerning the introduction of mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation into the Polish legal order. Directive 2014/107 of the Council of the European Union of 9 December 2014 introducing European and international standards for transparency and exchange of information in tax matters is essential. In addition, the Act introduces regulations enabling the automatic exchange of tax information with countries other than the EU based on the previous agreement of the Republic of Poland on this matter. The need for these regulations is due to a dynamic increase in business mobility and the resulting surge in cross-border transactions. The lack of flow of information for tax purposes seriously makes it difficult for tax authorities to correctly determine the tax bases and then to determine the amount of tax liability due. The problems of tax authorities in obtaining the necessary tax information are often used by taxpayers to tax evasion and even tax fraud. The lack of close cooperation between tax administrations in individual countries makes it ineffective and, more importantly, from one year to the next, these phenomena are becoming more and more widespread. The creation of a coherent system of cooperation between tax authorities in individual countries is therefore not only necessary but also very urgent. The EU directives aim to implement mechanisms to prevent tax avoidance and fraud, thereby increasing the efficiency and efficiency of tax collection. It is appropriate to agree that such significant and extensive legislation, in particular the implementation of EU law, is in favour of regulating the exchange of tax information in a single legal act. Section III, in detail, is essential for the automatic exchange of information on reported accounts. The reporting financial institution shall be required to apply due diligence procedures and specific reporting procedures, as well as to record the activities undertaken and to collect the required documentation. Reporting obligations include reporting accounts and undocumented accounts. The Act provides for exemption from the obligation to report accounts fulfilling the strict conditions set out in the Act. The Reporting Financial Institution shall provide information on reported accounts and undocumented accounts by means of electronic communication for the period of a calendar year. The draft law sets out due diligence procedures for existing individual accounts and entities' accounts, including new entity accounts, and regulates in detail the procedures for the control of financial institutions, as well as the amount of fines for failure to comply with statutory obligations. The draft law sets out detailed arrangements for the automatic exchange of tax information on entities forming part of a group of entities understood as a capital group. Such situations will certainly occur more and more in the economic space. The date of entry into force of the Act woke up, and I think it still raises serious doubts. The final proposal at the meeting of the Finance Committee concerned the entry into force of the Act 7 days after the date of publication, provided that the most important branch III for the financial institution will enter into force on 1 May 2017. Although the deadline of 1 May 2017 can be considered as short but allowing the financial institutions to prepare themselves to carry out the tasks of the Act. Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform will support the procedated bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u45	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u46	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a modern position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries, print No 1091. The new law will primarily regulate the rules and modalities for the exchange of tax information with other countries. The regulations are to adapt the Polish law to the EU directives. Reservations to the project were submitted, among others. experts from the Confederation of Leviathan. These comments concerned provisions which could result in the exercise of the law backwards for both the financial institutions concerned by this amendment and the ordinary citizens. Here we are talking about the obligation of identification and reporting included in the amendment for the period prior to the entry into force of the new law. This may result in the completion of the documentation, the sharing of information for a period when the proposed provisions were not in force and no one was obliged to provide such data. In our assessment is also too short a vacathio legis, which according to the initiators is only 7 days. In this case, as in many similar projects in the past, the period of vacathio legis should be between 3 and 6 months in order to allow the affected parties to adapt accordingly to the new procedures. The Modern Club hopes that WW. changes would have a positive impact on the proposed amendments and would properly regulate the rules and modalities for the exchange of tax information with other countries, the obligations of financial institutions with regard to the automatic exchange of tax information and the control of their implementation, but I make two amendments to ensure an appropriate period of vacathio legis. Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u47	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u48	The Act would enter into force on 1 June 2017, thus enabling the proper preparation of all affected entities. We ask for the support of our amendments, and if they are accepted of course, we will support this bill. Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u49	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries, prints no. 1091 and 1267. The proposed law provides for the regulation of issues related to the exchange of tax information in a single legal act and actually implements as many as three EU directives into the Polish legal order. Both EU legislation and the draft law that we are looking at meet the phenomenon of transactions and financial flows in the era of globalisation, in times of increasing number of cross-border transactions, increasing activity of taxpayers and increasingly difficult conditions to properly determine the amount of taxes due. In order to increase the efficiency and efficiency of tax collection, it has now become necessary to establish a system of uniform administrative cooperation between tax administrations of different countries. The draft, in addition to the directives mentioned at the outset, also takes into account the OECD elements of the global standard, known as the CRS, for the automatic exchange of financial information in tax matters and also applies to other countries outside the Union. The project contains a very comprehensive vocabulary of concepts and definitions, protecting against divergent interpretation of the provisions of the Act. It also requires that certain definitions are further specified in the work of the committee and the subcommittee. In very detail and with great care, the project sets out rules for the exchange of tax information on request and ex officio with the Member States, for the automatic exchange of information on reported accounts, for reporting financial institutions, for the conduct of reporting procedures, for due diligence procedures for existing and new accounts of entities and individual accounts. The project regulates the principles of automatic exchange of information on tax interpretations and decisions on transaction prices and entities forming part of a group of entities. The project was subject to an in-depth analysis in the Sub-Committee on the monitoring of the tax system and the Committee on Public Finance. Numerous editorial and clarification amendments have been introduced in the course of the work, and so-called amendments have also been introduced. adaptation amendments, inter alia changes in the structure of the tax system after the adoption by the High House of the National Tax Administration Act, as well as detailed rules, among others. rules for exempting a financial institution from the obligation to exchange information on reported accounts. A lot of attention was also paid to setting the deadline for the whole project and transitional provisions. Finally, we have accepted the provision that the law will enter into force after 7 days, of course it is about taking action strictly. administratively, excluding certain articles which will enter into force on 30 April 2017, and important Chapter III and certain articles which will enter into force on 1 May 2017. In conclusion, I would like to give an opinion that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u51	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of your fellow Members like to ask questions? If not, I close the list of Members. Mr Gosiewiski, the Law and Justice are the first questions to be asked by Mr Jerzy Gosiewiski. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u52	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask a question to the Minister and ask for a written reply. The government draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries sets out the principles, modalities and characteristics of the authorities for the exchange of tax information with other countries. Have similar solutions been introduced in other countries? As each country takes care of its own country, and this law is one of the elements of this care, will the implementation of this law automatically apply to other countries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u53	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u54	High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have a question about the implementation of the practice of automatic exchange of tax information with the Member States of the European Union. Is it true that after the entry into force of this law, taxpayers who are Polish tax residents who have not declared their foreign income will have to make corrections to their statements in order to avoid criminal penalties? Poland, like other Member States, was obliged to implement Community rules governing the exchange of tax information by 2014. Where are the delays coming from, and why doesn't the exchange of tax information involve social security contributions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mr Andrzej Noblet, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the debate on this bill, the controversy raised the adoption of the date of implementation of this law. It has been established that the Act will enter into force 7 days after publication with the exception of Article. 92, Art. 93 (1) and Article. 95 points 1 and 2 which will enter into force on 30 April, as well as Chapter III and Article. 94 points 5 and 7 and Article. 95 (3) and Article. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, During the discussion there was a proposal in the form of an amendment to extend the period of vacathio legis. I would like to ask the government if the terms proposed are really time limits to adapt our regulations safely and whether there is really no need to extend the period of vacathio legis. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u57	Thank you very much. Members will receive a written reply from the Minister to the questions. The discussion is closed. As amendments to the proposed bill were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to submit a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on Senate and Governmental Projects of Laws on the revision of the Public Finance Act (Prints No. 368, 1014 and 1229). I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, submitted the draft Print Act No 368 on 30 March 2016 and the draft Print Act No 1014 to the Committee on Public Finance for its first reading on 15 November 2016. The Senate draft law, print No 368, adapts the system of law to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 April 2015, stating that Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of the Public Finance Act of 27 August 2009 is incompatible with the Constitution. On the other hand, the Government's bill, in print no. 1014, concerns the systematicisation and harmonisation of the rules governing the granting of individual preferences, concessions, redemptions, distribution on instalments, deferral in the payment of civil and public claims. An extraordinary subcommittee was set up for the examination of draft laws, which was held on 30 November 2016 and 10 January 2017. Having taken into account legislative, editorial and linguistic changes, the subcommittee welcomed the draft laws and requested that they be adopted in the form of attached drafts. The Public Finance Commission, following its first reading and the examination of these draft laws at its meetings on 30 November 2016 and 25 January 2017, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached bill, print No 1229. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u59	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u60	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour and great pleasure to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to two draft laws amending the Public Finance Act, one of which was submitted by the Senate and included in print No 368, and the other by the Government of the Republic of Poland and it is print No 1014. In addition, on behalf of our club, I will also refer to the position of the Committee on Public Finance in relation to these projects, contained in print No 1229. The purpose of the proposed amendments to the draft submitted by the Senate is to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 9 April 2015, in which the Court ruled that Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of this law is incompatible with certain provisions of the Constitution. In order to eliminate the deficiencies and doubts identified by the Court, the Senate proposed in the draft proposal to repeal the Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 act. As the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out, we believe that the exclusion from the scope of public information produced by the auditor of documents other than the audit plan and the report on its implementation constitutes a restriction on the right of access to that information guaranteed by the Constitution. We are also of the view that the repeal of the recording indicated by the Senate will eliminate the question of interpretation as to the documents to be made available by the auditor. In turn, focusing on the government bill amending the Public Finance Act, I would like to say that its aim is to systematise the provisions of standardization for granting individual allowances, such as remission, distribution into instalments or deferral of repayment. This applies to the payment of civil-law cash claims and public-law fiscal non-tax claims. The need for changes in the project is due to the ambiguities and interpretation doubts raised by the public finance sector. The implementation of the proposed amendments is expected to result, among others, in the implementation of the proposed amendments. improve the efficiency and efficiency of public administration in granting these reductions. Moreover, the need to amend the existing rules also arises from the need to respect international law obligations and to fully enforce the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in relation to Poland. The entry into force of the proposed amendments in the case of civil-law claims will result in clarification and harmonisation of the provisions on the remission of all or part of the liabilities due. On the other hand, in the case of non-tax public-law claims, it will contribute to supplementing the provisions setting out those measures, allowing for the application of reliefs, indicating precisely the types of relief and determining the authorities competent to issue the decision, as well as the review bodies. To sum up, our club, after careful analysis, recognises the need to implement the changes proposed by both the Senate and the government and will vote in favour of the projects under consideration as recommended by the committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u61	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. She's not here. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. There isn't. Mrs Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club. There isn't. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the club of the Polish People's Party. There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Senate and Government Committee on the bill amending the Public Finance Act, print No. 368, 1014 and 1229. I would like to point out at the beginning that in this package of projects addressed to the Committee on Public Finance for first reading alongside the projects mentioned by me, there was also a parliamentary draft law amending the Public Finance Act from print no 231. Unfortunately, I regret to say that the committee's report does not refer to this regulation because the votes of law and justice were rejected at first reading. It was a very important project in its content. It proposed a revision of the public finance management system. It was a good basis for the debate on the security of public finances. Discussion and parliamentary work on this subject, I believe, is essential. The high rate of sovereign debt regardless of the economic situation, as we are witnessing, is simply very dangerous. The stabilizing expenditure rule adopted a few years ago was unfortunately loosened by the PiS. The rule committed to saving under conditions of economic development and allowed to loosen expenditure, even at the expense of the state budget, when we were in a crisis. The PiS rule has stopped working. Good economic development, at a good level, is not the basis for a sound management of the public pennies. The adopted deficit of the state budget for the current year is almost PLN 60 billion, which represents 2.9% GDP, no longer has any security margin and it will be paid not only by our children, but also by grandchildren. I don't know, and I don't really understand why Law and Justice doesn't want to talk about it, and why print project 231 was rejected and didn't even exist in the plenary room of our Sejm. Returning to the projects, collected synthetically and overworked, included in the committee's report, with regard to the Senate print project No 368, he executes the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 9 April 2015, in which the Court ruled that Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The 2th Public Finance Act is incompatible with the Constitution. The draft law, which we are debating, removes rules that may cause interpretational doubts concerning documents produced by an internal auditor which constitute public information which are made available on a general basis. On the other hand, the Government's print project 1014 deals with the settlement of liabilities arising from civil and public-law claims. The current state of law laid down in the Public Finance Act makes it difficult, or even prevents, to grant concessions, to spread into instalments or simply to refrain from collecting these debts, of course, in justified cases. There are problems even in the case of clearing the costs of cases raised by Poles before the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, the draft Public Finance Act introduces changes to complement, clarify and organise existing legal regulations both in respect of civil and non-tax public-law claims. The draft establishes that these claims may be remitted either ex officio or on request, taking into account the general clauses, inter alia. the important interest of the debtor or of the public interest, regulates the possibility of non-payment of civil claims from local government units and their units in amounts not exceeding PLN 100. Similarly, the project complements and clarifies the provisions on non-tax public-law budget claims. In the course of the committee's work, changes were made in character [[♪ The bell ♪]] clarification and drafting. The Polish People's Party Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u63	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u64	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! It came to me on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to present an opinion on these two projects related to the Public Finance Act, which are included in the Seym Printing No. 1229. And I want to say yes. We have dealt with minor problems that had to be addressed and, unfortunately, we have not dealt with one of the most important public finance projects, a project on expenditure rules, whether we will continue to owe the budget, as I will remind you. I don't think the Minister is sleeping if there's an amount of PLN 1 trillion of public debt. So we adopted solutions in the Senate bill on what should be made available to the citizen in the case of an audit of a public company in the local government, i.e. we considered that, in addition to the report and the report of an expert auditor, all other information would also be made available as public information. This solution does not raise any doubts, it resolves the doubts related to this, which were the subject of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Therefore, the citizen also has the right, in addition to the auditor's report, to familiarise himself with other documents produced during the audit. And this is an important thing for Poles, because this way they will be able to control public institutions, they will have access to such information, have access to information about how property is managed. Another problem that has been addressed by the committee is non-tax fiscal debts and civil law claims, and it has been pointed out how and on the basis of which criteria redemptions can be made. And that's what we agree on. My club supports these solutions. I've got time, and I'd like to talk about things that haven't been taken care of. At the same time, there is a draft law on public finances. I think the Member who represents the applicants from the Modern Club will talk about it. That's all I can say. The Platforms Club and the Civic Platform government indicated fuse points related to the possibility of debt, so-called. the expenditure rule that the current government has unfortunately destroyed. These little things, little things, important things we support. But in this House and in the Committee on Public Finance, we should talk. What's the government thinking? Because such gifts in the form of revenue to the budget, which over the last 2 years are payments of the National Bank of Poland in the amount of approx. 10 billion PLN, may not be. And then what? How is public authority supposed to control the expenses that one side gives... Let me remind you - we have nothing for the program, but for the planning of expenditure - programme 500+. On the one hand, we give, on the other hand we should have the so-called. holding. I will not talk about the golden budget rule - the Minister probably knows it - as much expenditure as revenue. It has not been possible to balance the pension system for years, and it has actually grown slightly in this respect. But what can we expect from the government? That if they were criticized, they shouldn't destroy the spending rule and they should... Minister, that's what we're looking for, because there can't be a rule: a flood after us. We will regulate small things - what the Constitutional Court has said - and we will not deal with important things. We will be in favour of the solution that we are proposing, the committee has submitted to the High Sejm, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But we wait. I think that the State of the Law and Justice Club also, because you raise your hands for the next expenses, for the next sovereign debt, for the next sovereign debt or state action at the expense of future generations. They should also know what you're giving them in the future with this kind of action. They probably already know they're gonna have smaller pensions. But how much more taxes will they have to pay in the future...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u66	...for today's expenses that the government is proposing to charge citizens with? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u67	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today we're talking about amending the Public Finance Act. The truth is what has already happened here, which is that we are saying that today we are left with small changes that are important from the point of view of the citizens, but which will not change the state's debt and will in no way affect the state's condition in the coming years. Because the main changes that we wanted to talk about regarding a balanced budget were rejected by law and justice representatives in one second without any discussion and without thinking about how to actually bring public finances into balance in the coming years. Let me just remind you that the Government of Law and Justice has barely taken power, changed the spending rule, and therefore the rule has not proved to be a rule, because something that can be changed so easily cannot be regarded as any permanent and important rule, and, even worse, it will not protect future generations from overindebtedness of the state from the state's life beyond its cost. And that's the worst thing. What we wanted to do, what we proposed in our law rejected quietly in the subcommittee of public finances, is to convert the stabilising expenditure rule into a structural balance of revenue and expenditure of the whole public finance sector, which should be less than 0% gross domestic product. What does that mean? This means that we would measure the level of expenditure to the next year's GDP level, where expenditure should be equal to the impact. At a time when GDP, gross domestic product, our economy would grow faster, there would be a surplus to repay debt from past years, when it would grow, a deficit would arise. The bill also told us how to balance it in the years to come. In this way, we wanted to increase the discipline of public finances, which PiS had just loosened, and in this way, over the next few years, to bring them into balance so that our children would not have to pay our debts. I will remind you that the government in the election campaign, and then also in power, promised that it would carry out the so-called. Social transfers from rich pockets to poor pockets and, above all, closing the tax gap, improving the efficiency of the tax administration. However, even Minister Morawiecki admitted during the year that the 500+ programme is on loan, that it is in fact necessary to think about how to replace in the following years these very large and one-off influences that we had last year, which we probably already know, will partially repeat this year, because long, multi-annual social programmes cannot be implemented with one-off influences, but should have the indicated source of funding for years. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Morawiecki, went on for months bragging about how the Law and Justice sealed the tax system in a year and what sensational effects we have of this sealing. December came and exposed the subject of the sealing very strongly, because it turned out that the king was naked, that the level of VAT income was not achieved according to preliminary estimates even in relation to what was assumed in the 2016 budget, that the revenues increased by what the economy had increased, i.e. by 2,8% in fact. , and even worse, the efficiency of the tax administration, at least according to these preliminary estimates, has actually fallen by 0.2%. So the questions are repeated. Of course, you are lucky, because again this year there will be influence - it will probably be the last year of such a high profit - from the National Bank of Poland. You still don't have an answer, and you're going to finance the programmes that have been put into the weight of these one-off influences in the years to come. The effects of sealing are not visible at all, and you do not want to talk about the reform of public finances, therefore [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is irresponsible to eat money and indebt the state at the expense of future generations, which we will never support as Modern. Of course, what remains as part of the revision of the Public Finance Act has a positive effect for citizens and we will support it, but we do not have our consent to further sovereign debt. The level of debt is already 1 trillion PLN and in such an irresponsible way it is impossible to rule Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u69	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Public Benefit and Volunteering (Prints No. 1180 and 1220). I would like to ask Mrs Ursula Ruseck to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, print No 1180. The project entered the Sejm on 29 December 2016 and on 3 January 2017 was addressed to the first reading in the committee. January 24th this year a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family at which the draft was considered took place was held. The committee's report is in print No 1220. The proposal presented to the High House is an orderly one. The first amendment concerns how the procedure for the exchange of information between the Minister responsible for Social Security, who is the owner of the Public Benefit Support Fund, and the registered courts, is improved. It is a provision for the courts to inform the Minister of the date of service and the decision declaring the loss of the status of a public benefit organisation. The second amendment, ordering and clarifying, assumes that a public benefit organisation losing its status shall submit a final report for the year in which it lost its status. The next amendment concerns the deadline for submitting a substantive and financial report to a public benefit organisation in which the financial year is not a calendar year. The report shall then expire on 30 November of the year following the financial year. The next amendment refers to the rationalisation of the rules for the establishment by the Minister responsible for social security of a list of public benefit organisations. Another amendment concerns the extension of the source catalogue of revenue of the Public Benefit Support Fund by interest from the so-called "public benefit organisation." free resources transferred to the management of the Minister responsible for public finances. At a committee meeting on 24 January, the draft law was adopted unanimously, without amendment. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u71	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Katarzyna Schmidt-Rodziewicz will be the first to speak in the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering, print No 1180. The project entered the Sejm on 29 December 2016. On 24 January 2017, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy adopted a report recommending the adoption of a law by the High House. The amendment introduces e.g. improving the procedure for the exchange of information between the Minister responsible for Social Security, the Director of the Public Benefit Support Fund and the registry courts. In addition, the legislator rationalises the principles of the Minister's establishment of a list of public benefit organisations entitled to receive 1% personal income tax. The Act of 5 August 2015 set up a fund to support and equalise the opportunities of public benefit organisations. Under the current rules, these organisations are required to transfer funds to the Fund which cannot be used directly for public benefit activities. The government amendment proposal provides for an extension of the fund's source of revenue catalogue to include interest on the funds transferred to the finance minister's management. The current strict rules for the inclusion of public benefit organisations in the list entitled to receive 1% are relaxed. tax. In accordance with the proposed arrangements, the Minister will also include in the list those organisations which will prove that the failure to include the required annual accounts: financial and substantive has occurred without their fault or for reasons beyond their control. The revision of this provision therefore pursues an important social objective of optimising the activities of these organisations by creating an opportunity to raise revenue from tax sources as many entities as possible. The Government also amends other provisions on compliance with the reporting obligation to the Minister. So far, the lack of precision in the time limits required for reporting has raised considerable legal concerns among the organisations. In addition, the rules governing reporting obligations for organisations which have lost their status as a public benefit organisation are simplified. In view of the social nature of the amendment, particularly as regards the creation of more favourable opportunities for organisations to raise revenue from tax sources, the applicant proposes a shorter, 7-day period for vacathio legis, which is undoubtedly additional support for faster introduction of legislation for OPP. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the draft law proposed by the government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u73	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the law on public benefit activities and voluntary activities. As we have heard from the previous speakers, this bill is tidy. The proposed changes are not big and even during committee work they did not arouse great emotions. It should be recalled, however, that the Act on Public Benefit has been in operation for nearly 14 years. It is also worth noting that it was probably the longest prepared regulation after 1989, which was accompanied by controversy, and in its implementation there were difficulties at every level, ranging from local authorities to government administration. The last four amendments directly related to the revision of the Public Benefit and Volunteering Act largely concerned changes in the status of a public benefit organisation and mainly the transfer of 1% and the way in which it is accounted for. The latest amendment also focused on limits in the promotion of the organisation in relation to the 1% campaign. Today's amendment also deals with 1% and the proposed solutions are intended to improve the functioning of its transmission. Two of the proposed amendments concern the new Public Benefit Organisation Support Fund, which has been in operation since 2016. The project therefore envisages improving the procedure for the exchange of information between the Minister, who is the manager of this fund and the registry courts. This fund, according to the provisions of the Act, will be powered, among others. appropriations of 1% not spent by organisations which have lost their status as a public benefit organisation. It should be noted that the Ministry has refined the procedure in which the registry courts signal the ministry such a loss of status. This amendment also provides for an extension and clarification of the catalogue of sources of revenue of the Public Benefit Fund. An important aspect is also changes that clarify the performance of the public benefit organisation's reporting obligation to the Minister in the case of organisations for which the calendar year is not a financial year and those which have lost their status as a public benefit organisation. And that's a good solution, because this case raised a lot of doubts and questions. Another important regulation is to refine the rules for the Minister's establishment of a list of public benefit organisations. This amendment allows the Minister to take account of organisations which have not been able to report due to their fault or other independent reasons within the deadline. It must be admitted that this is a liberal solution, but also very discretionary, without the possibility of cancellation. This provision gives the Minister the opportunity only to deal with the late situations on a case-by-case basis. Such discretionary decisions can help one and deprive others of this most famous and vital to the activities of the organization of the benefit of the public privilege. Is it not therefore worth considering the possibility of taking into account the appeal procedure or, as suggested in the committee's work, drawing up a list of such organisations and giving reasons for taking into account the overrun of the deadline to transfer the public benefit activities to the Council? High Izbo! In conclusion, given that the proposed changes are orderly and mitigate some of the strict rules that have been in place so far, which are expected by public benefit organisations, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u75	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I have the honour to present a position on amending the Act on Public Benefit and on Volunteering from Printing No. 1180. This proposal introduces changes to improve the exchange of information between the courts and the National Courts, and the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Policy, who is responsible for overseeing NGOs with the status of OPP. This amendment introduces less restrictive consequences for the short delay in the notification of the NGO activity report and indicates the purpose for which the resources collected under 1% are to be transferred. by NGOs which have not used them in accordance with the rules. The issue of the exchange of information between the KRS and the Minister is not open to discussion, as it is clear that the decision by the Minister to remove the organisation concerned from the right to use the status of a public benefit organisation should result in legal consequences in the form of deprivation of that status and also in the other way. The OPP status could be applied for by NGOs, which carry out the mission and the statutory scope of tasks, not only theoretically but practically. These actions were verified by the court, while giving these organisations the status of special social trust. It is important to ensure this trust and build it through transparency and transparency. We're talking about organizations that they often collect, they're based on volunteering, so for example. There may be a lack of official formalities, because there are simply no officials here. In this case, it is also clear that 1% of appropriations are not used as intended. Public benefit organisations have had a chance to raise funds from 1% since 2003 the tax on natural persons. The fact that Poles consciously decide to transfer 1% each year Your social tax. However, it is worth thinking more about this issue. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the Kukiz Club is behind the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u78	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Club at this point. The proposed law provides for the improvement of the procedures for circulation and exchange of information on the organisation's conduct or cessation of public benefit activities between the Minister responsible for the Public Benefit Organisation Fund and the registry courts. The project also envisages extending the catalogue of sources of funding for the fund. The amendments proposed in the bill are good changes, as I mentioned at the committee meeting, because they facilitate the circulation of information. More and more public benefit organisations ask citizens to pay 1% income tax on individuals for their benefit and more and more individuals make such payments. The designer draws attention to the need for a rational establishment of the register of such organisations. It is very important that potential donors have easy access to information as to whether the organisation they want to support is, from a formal point of view, a public benefit organisation. They should also have access to information on the reasons why the organisation they supported for years lost its status as a public benefit organisation in a given year. The only objections are the addition of the paragraph. 3a in Article 27a. This is a provision that allows the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy to leave the OPP register of an organisation that has failed to comply with the reporting obligation. On the one hand, it is beneficial if an organization finds itself in an emergency situation, but it can also lead to getting some organizations out of trouble, not others. In order to avoid this, the Ministry should provide a list of such organisations to the Council for Public Use, revealing in which cases this specific law of grace has been applied. This argument is relevant in view of the fact that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is responsible for the Fund for Supporting the Organization of Public Benefits. Through discretionary decisions one can facilitate access to measures to support the potential of public benefit organisations and eliminate others. In view of the above, the Modern Amendment is tabled today. As we have discussed, Minister, at the committee meeting, I am making an amendment on this point in favour of your suggestion. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 27a is added to the mouth. 3a as in your amendment, although we add here the words: the Minister responsible for social security, after consulting the Council for Public Use, includes the various organisations on the list. We also add point 3b: the Council of Public Use Activities shall deliver its opinion within 7 days of receipt from the Minister responsible for Social Security of the request for an opinion on the matter referred to in paragraph 1. 3a. The absence of an opinion within the time limit shall be equivalent to that expressed by the Council of the positive opinion. Modern, of course, will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u79	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? Mrs Margaret Navel has come forward, but she is not here. I therefore close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Law on Public Use and Volunteering is to be another example of improving the functioning of both public benefit organisations and institutions which cooperate or affect their operation. The amendments proposed by the applicants introduce new procedures for the exchange of information between the Ministry of Labour - the head of the public benefit support fund and the registered courts. It's a step in the right direction in our assessment. In the project we can read, among other things, that the court is to inform the Minister effectively, after the decision on the loss of the status of a public benefit organisation has been passed, of the date of service and then of the date of the decision. This change of a sequencing nature is important in terms of improving the 1% transfer mechanism tax. What does that mean in practice? Public benefit organisations which have not submitted a report within the time limit but show that this has not been done because of their fault may be included in the list of entities entitled to receive 1% tax. Currently, the disease, death or family event of the members of the organisation could have deprived the organisation of the right to up to 1% tax. On the other hand, accusing a member of the organization of incompetence or not reporting a substantive report for personal or family reasons was a depraved act for which organizations are supposed to act. If the intention of the applicant is to act in favour of a public benefit organisation, where e.g. There will be a loss of documents by the court, it is difficult to disagree with that. Of course, the transparency of decisions in exceptional cases, which are regulated by the proposed provisions, will be very important. I would also like to remind you that the novel is closely linked to the creation by the current government of the Fund for Supporting the Organization of Public Benefits about a year ago. The revenue of the Fund shall be the financial resources of 1% income tax on natural persons not spent or misused by organisations that have lost their status as a public benefit organisation. I would like to make it clear here that we have doubts about the purpose of such a fund, because it is not entirely clear to what purpose the funds raised by it could be used. We would therefore like to make it clear that the full responsibility for having these funds now and in the future is taken by the rulers. The PSL Club will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u81	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws (prints Nos 778 and 1226). I ask Mr Jan Mosiński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, it has been my honour to present to the High House a report on the Senate draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act and some other laws, print No 1226. The purpose of the proposed law is to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 28 February 2012. At this point, it should be mentioned that the Court has challenged the provisions of the Article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a the Law of 17 December 1998 on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. According to the Court, the above-mentioned Article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a is incompatible with the principle of citizens' confidence in the State and its expressis verbis rights under Article. 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Article Designed changes refer to the so-called. a clause enabling the pension authority to refrain from touching a final pension decision in a situation where this would take place within the proposed new time limits. The clause is formulated in such a way that the pension authority could do so if it were to result in a significant deterioration of the personal or material situation of the person concerned due to his age, health status, other specific circumstances, and the granting of the benefit or incorrect calculation of his amount was due to an error of the pension authority. During the work, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy heard the government's information that this clause had been examined in the context of the case law not only of the Constitutional Tribunal but also of the European Court of Human Rights. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the above, it can be concluded that we are implementing the judgments of the Constitutional Court which the opposition has disseminated. As a reminder, the previous coalition, PO-PSL, failed to execute several dozen judgments of the tribunal. We can learn from the official information available on the pages of the Government's Legislative Centre that, having a parliamentary majority then, it did not execute 48 decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal between 29 April 2008 and 28 October 2015. The comment in this case seems unnecessary. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for first reading on 22 July 2016. At its meetings on 30 November 2016 and 25 January 2017, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy adopted the amendments tabled, resulting from the position adopted on 16 December 2016 of the Council of Ministers to the draft act amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws contained in print No 778. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u83	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak in the debate. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of my club, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, in relation to the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate bill amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, print No. 778, report - print No. 1226. The proposed regulation provides that the repeal or amendment of the final decision of the pension authority will in principle not be possible after the end of: 10 years, where: the decision was given as a result of the offence, the evidence on the basis of which the facts relevant to the case were found to be false, the decision was taken as a result of the deliberate misappropriation of the pension authority by the person receiving the benefit; 5 years, where: after the decision has been enforced, new evidence is submitted or new facts have been disclosed before the decision has been issued which affect the right to benefits or their amount, the decision has been taken on the basis of a different decision or judgment of the court which was subsequently repealed or annulled. It will not be possible to issue them after 3 years where the granting of benefits or incorrect calculation of their amount was due to an error of the pension authority. However, the time limits introduced will not apply if, as a result of the repeal or amendment of the decision, the person concerned acquires a higher right to benefit or benefit or if the decision to fix the initial capital which has not been taken into account for the calculation of the pension as determined by the final decision is subject to the repeal or amendment. According to Art. 1g in Article 114 of the pension law, the pension authority will waive the repeal or amendment of a decision where the granting of benefits or the incorrect calculation of benefits was due to an error of the pension authority, where the revocation or amendment of the decision would entail an excessive burden on the person concerned due to his or her personal or material situation, age, health status or other specific circumstances. This draft also includes provisions making similar changes to the Act on pension provision for professional soldiers and their families, as well as the Act on pension provision for police officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire Department and Prison Service and their families. These changes will also apply to the rules on social insurance for farmers. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the project is to regulate the rules for verifying final pension decisions following the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 28 February 2012, in accordance with the guidance given in the judgment, and the proposal included in the report also takes into account the observations of the Council of Ministers. They were submitted after an in-depth analysis, including an analysis of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, my club, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, supports the draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws annexed to the committee's report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u85	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Joanna Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws contained in print No 778. The draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund Act and certain other laws aims to take account of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 February 2012. It should be recalled that the Law of 20 April 2004 amending the Law on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, with effect from 1 July 2004, the legislator in Article. The Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund introduced paragraph 114. 1a, who said that the right to benefits or their amount shall be re-established at the request of the person concerned or of his own motion if, after the decision on benefits has been passed, new evidence has been submitted or circumstances have been revealed before the decision has been issued which affect the right to benefits or their amount and if, after the decision has been adopted, it appears that the evidence submitted did not give rise to the determination of the right to or the amount of the pension. This meant that the issuing authority could verify the correctness of the decision, the final decision at any time and because it had assessed the evidence previously submitted differently or otherwise classified those facts which it had previously treated as justifying the granting of certain benefits. The Constitutional Tribunal held, in its judgment of 28 February 2012, that Article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a The Social Insurance Fund pension law is incompatible with the principle of citizens' confidence in the State and with the law that they have established under Article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. As a result of the delivery of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal as from 8 March 2012, Art. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a The Social Insurance Fund pension law has ceased to apply. This means that the right to benefits or their amount shall be re-established at the request of the person concerned or of his own motion if, after the decision on benefits has been passed, new evidence is submitted or circumstances have been revealed before that decision has been issued which affect the right to benefits or their amount. This draft law amends fully taking into account the guidance contained in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, giving the pension authority the opportunity to repeal or amend the final decision if the period has not expired since its date of issue: 10 years, where: the decision was given as a result of the offence, the evidence on the basis of which the relevant facts were established proved false and the decision was given as a result of the deliberate misappropriation of the pension authority by the person receiving the benefit; 5 years where, after the decision has become final, new evidence is submitted or new facts have been disclosed before the decision has been issued which affect the right to benefits or their amount, and the decision has been based on another decision or decision which was subsequently repealed or annulled, and 3 years where the granting of benefits or incorrect calculation of their amount has occurred as a result of an error of the pension authority. The proposed changes are very necessary as they specify specific deadlines and a specific catalogue of circumstances empowering the pension authorities to move their decisions to their own level. The proposed amendments ensure a balance between the interests of the individual and the public interest and take into account the principle of protection of confidence in the State and its rights as laid down by the Constitutional Tribunal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform supports the proposed bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u87	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to invite Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15. The Member doesn't have one. I invite Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Until recently, until 2012, the legal status allowed for an unlimited change in decisions on pensions. The verification was not only permitted due to the disclosure of new evidence and circumstances, since only recently, under Polish law, a ZUS official could legally decide to determine the right to retirement or pension change from office at any time to the detriment of pensioners, even in cases where the previous decision was solely the result of an error of the official. Even if, after 10 years of payment to a pensioner or pensionist, the ZUS official only verified his own assessment of the evidence, he could have a final decision, I stress, the decision on the basis of which for many years the citizen received a payment of a certain amount, move and reduce the amount of the benefit - unlimited authority in the hands of the officials of the ZUS, all in accordance with the applicable law at that time. This state of law violated the fundamental constitutional principles of our system: the principle of citizen's confidence in the state, the principle of protection of acquired rights and gave too broad powers to administrative authorities. The Constitutional Tribunal ruled in its judgment of 28 February 2012, eliminating the provision of a trap from the legal system. There's no way to disagree with this diagnosis. Of course, verification of the decision should be possible, but in very specific cases and based on precise conditions. The Senate draft law takes into account the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and clarifies such conditions, allowing for a change of decision in certain cases and within a certain period of time. Finally, I would like to emphasise one more thing. This project is another proof of how important and necessary institutions in a democratic legal state are such institutions as the Ombudsman who initiated this procedure and the Constitutional Tribunal. Today there are almost 9 million pensioners and pensioners in our country. So many citizens are affected by this minor seeming change. The Court upholds the rights of all of us, which is why I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, to give people a tribunal, not a political one, but one that will uphold the rights of citizens. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u89	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Barbara Chrobak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund Act and certain other laws follows the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 February 2012 declaring the non-compliance of the article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a the Act of 17 December 1998 on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund with a Constitution. The contested article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a provided that the provision of the Article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Pension Act shall apply mutatis mutandis if, after the decision has been passed, it appears that the evidence submitted did not give rise to the determination of the right to a pension or to the amount of the pension. In practice, such an understanding of the provision has been established that the authority has differently assessed the evidence previously submitted or classified those facts which it had previously regarded as justifying the granting of certain benefits. This led to a breach of the legal security of the entity. In this case, the legitimate decisions could have been verified ex officio to the detriment of the recipient, at any time, indefinitely, and even if the error of the decision was due to the error of the pension authority, which was otherwise obliged to examine the grounds for acquiring the right to the benefit in question. Period of collection of the benefit received in accordance with Article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a was not treated as a contribution or as a non-contributory, which could, as a result, constitute an obstacle to the acquisition of the right to other social security benefits, e.g. pensions for incapacity for work. The re-fixing of the right to benefits must be justified by exceptional circumstances in order to maintain a balance between the legitimate interests of the entity and the public interest. The Act introduces a new wording of the provisions on the mobility of established social benefits. The method used is the calculation of expressis verbis of the grounds for repealing or amending the decision. Those conditions are: the submission of new evidence or the disclosure of new circumstances existing before decisions are taken which affect the right to benefits or their amount, situations where the decision was taken as a result of a crime or evidence on the basis of which it was established that the facts relevant to the case would prove false, it will be established that the decision was taken as a result of an informed error of the pension authority by the person receiving the benefit or that the decision was taken on the basis of another decision or decision of the court which was subsequently repealed, amended or annulled. On the basis of the grounds relating to the need to protect the public interest, which is clearly in favour of the proper disposal of the Social Insurance Fund, where it is found that the wrong granting or the determination of the benefit is the responsibility of the pension authority, this is only permissible within 3 years of the date of the decision. The occurrence of any of the grounds for repealing or amending the decision will only enable the pension authority to issue a decision which is unfavourable to the recipient within a period of 10 or 5 years. The party shall be notified of the initiation of an ex officio procedure by the beneficiary body. An additional security for the recipient is the establishment of a negative indication which does not allow the decision of the pension authority to be repealed or amended in the event of a significant deterioration in the personal or material situation of the person concerned due to his age, health or other specific circumstances. The Kukiz Club15 supports this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u91	Thank you very much. Would any of your fellow Members like to ask you another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice. It's about a minute and a half to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is particularly important for me that the decision to grant benefits cannot be corrected and that it is determined in the event of a manifest error of the pension authority or as a result of a crime, possibly establishing new circumstances relevant to the case. Please explain why no action has been taken to remedy the incorrect regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u93	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Marcin Zielenecki, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I will refer to the history of the Senate draft law that has been debated today amending the Social Insurance Fund pension law. I would like to point out that this is a project which is the result of the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling in 2012 on the non-compliance of the article. 114 Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund with a constitution, with the principle of citizens' trust in the state. It can be said that the Senate is the authority of the State which is responsible for the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal issued the so-called. Scope ruling, i.e. considers that this provision, in so far as it can be said, gives unlimited time for the possibility of touching the final decisions of pension bodies, simply violates the standards of the Constitution. The result of this ruling was a change in the practice of the Social Insurance Institution. As early as 2012, the guidelines of the President of the Social Insurance Institution were issued, which could be said to have changed the rules of procedure of the Social Insurance Institution in cases where irregularities previously issued by the pension authority were found, both in terms of determining the right to benefit and in terms of determining the amount of that benefit. These guidelines were intended to introduce - I would say - an instructional but quite important period from the point of view of the practice of the Social Insurance Institution, a 5-year period. With regard to decisions issued after 5 years, or the possibility of moving final decisions after 5 years of the decision's validity, this simply became impossible according to these guidelines and the Social Security Office - it can be said - followed these solutions in practice. On the other hand, it has become necessary to put the legal situation in order because, from the point of view of the legal provisions in force, formally, the provisions of the Article. 114 have not been changed. This proposal also provides, first, for the detailed implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2012, but also for both the correction of the practice applied so far on the basis of the guidelines by the Social Insurance Institution and the substantive amendment of the provisions consisting in varying the length of the period after which the final decision of the pension authority could be affected depending on the circumstances of such incorrect decision, depending on whether this decision is the result of the error of the pension body itself or of certain circumstances which sometimes burden even the insured person himself. I also want to say that this project also includes... In other words, it makes the practice of the Social Insurance Institution more flexible because it gives the Social Insurance Institution the opportunity to withdraw from such a final decision of the pension authority when the repeal or amendment of a previous decision - the final decision - would entail an excessive burden on the person concerned because of his or her personal or material situation, age, health status or other specific circumstances. So that this element included in the project was positively assessed in the official position of the Council of Ministers. We believe that this individual approach to the personal, material, health situation of each insured person affected by such an incorrect decision of the pension authority is a positive solution here. For this reason, it turned out that the mere change in the practice of the Social Insurance Institution based on instructional solutions, the guidelines of the President of the Social Insurance Institution are insufficient. We therefore welcome the amended draft law on amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, which has been modified during parliamentary work, including in committee. I ask the High House to support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński also wanted to take the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address Mrs Augustynowska's speech and address her doubts. Well, Madam President, it was Parliamentary Club Law and Justice that, as a majority of the Sejm, considered the Senate bill amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, just considering the judgment of the Court of Justice of 2012. We therefore confirm what I said, what is in the report, that we are implementing the judgments of the Constitutional Court, that we have handed over the Constitutional Tribunal to citizens, which is confirmed by the fact that we are working on decisions. However, I will remind you once again, in the years 2008 and 2015, that ruling coalition did not deal with more than 40 judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u97	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments proposed by the applicants meet the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It's about art. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a of the 1998 Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, which allows the Social Insurance Fund to reduce and even deprive the pension if, after the decision establishing the right to it has been passed, it appears that the evidence on which the decision was based did not give rise to the granting of a pension or pension. The Court did not, in principle, contest the need to verify final pension decisions. On the other hand, it found it incompatible with the Constitution that the pension authority had the power to initiate ex officio proceedings in order to verify the established pension rights or the amount of the pension. The judges indicated in the statement of reasons that the Social Security Office as a specialised public body should carry out its social security audit tasks without undue delay. It has the right tools to achieve this objective. At the same time, it was considered that the Social Security Office was not too eager to enforce its debts, although on the other hand it was always very meticulous. Reason? Although the principal amount was symbolic, interest was no longer. Under the amendments, the Social Security Office will be able to decide to resume the procedure for granting a pension and the amount of those benefits in the event of tampering with evidence, knowingly misleading or decision-making as a result of a crime, within 10 years of the decision being taken, as well as in case of disclosure of new circumstances or evidence unknown to the body on the date of the decision, within 5 years of the decision. Re-decisions on pensions or other benefits may be given in the event of revocation, amendment or annulment of the decision of the court on the basis of which the decision to grant the benefit was taken, within 5 years of the decision being taken, as well as in the event of a benefit being awarded or miscalculated as a result of an error by the determining authority, within 3 years of the decision being taken. In practice, the proposed amendment will also mean the protection of the certainty and stability of the legal order and the exclusion of claims from the pension body, which would be separated from the actual situation of the insured person in view of the significant expiry of the period from the date on which they were created at the time of their completion. The Sejm Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy recommended the adoption of the Senate bill, which is why the PSL Club will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u99	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 on the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care (prints 1098 and 1240). I ask Mr Zbigniew Pavlovicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u100	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health a report on the first reading of the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare, print No 1240, which took place at the meeting of the Health Committee on 25 January 2017. The contested bill deals with the principles of diagnosis and treatment of oncology patients included in the so-called "oncology." the oncology package, which was introduced by the Law of 22 July 2014 amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws and has been in force since 1 January 2015. The amended draft law substantially deviates from the original draft, taking into account public consultations and medical opinion. It is particularly important to derogate from the repeal of the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 laws which would result in the abolition of unlimited settlement of benefits under the oncology package. The introduction of this change would increase waiting queues for patients, would extend waiting time for the start of the diagnostic and medical process and in many cases would lead to a deterioration of the health status of the patient or a reduction in the chances of effective treatment. This change should be considered particularly important. The proposed changes to the Proceded Law concern the following areas: simplify reporting of waiting lists on the basis of a diagnostic and oncological treatment card; abandoning the diagnosis rate of malignancy in primary healthcare; exemption from reporting of malignancy diagnosis to the National Cancer Register as a condition for further proceding of diagnostics and oncology treatment; reduction of the model form of the diagnostic and oncology treatment card, while ensuring the possibility of electronic completion; allowing for the issuance of oncology diagnostics and treatment cards by an outpatient specialist doctor who has been found to be suspected of malignant or locally malignant cancer, and a doctor providing benefits under health programmes. The proposed text of the Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Public-funded Health Service Act, which gives the Minister responsible for Health the power to announce by means of a notice the rules of procedure for the diagnosis and treatment of malignant cancer in the field of public-funded benefits, raises doubts of the legal and substantive nature of the Sejm Analysis Office in its opinions of 24 January 2017. The legal and substantive opinion of BAS concerns inter alia. the vague purpose of the Minister of the Notice, which is not of a legislative nature and cannot formulate legal standards. It will therefore not affect the assessment of compliance by doctors with the obligation laid down in Article. 4 Act on Doctor and Dentist Competitions. According to these records, the doctor is to perform the profession according to the indications of current medical knowledge, the methods and means available to him to prevent, recognise and treat diseases. In contrast, the infringement of the notice will also not result in a doctor being held liable for disciplinary action. The recommendations for diagnosis and treatment developed by scientific associations of specialists in the field of medicine do not apply only to public-funded benefits. The inclusion in the Law on the provision of public-funded health care provides, according to BAS' assessment, only legal confusion, since the obligation for doctors to apply current medical knowledge concerns benefits financed by public and non-public funds. Introduction of this amendment, i.e. Article 2 Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 3th bill is also linked to the addition of an article. 32c, which significantly increases the administrative and reporting burden for healthcare providers, to which I believe they are currently unprepared. It shall also not specify the purpose of calculating the performance indicators referred to in Article. 32c. Dear Marshal! High Seym! The members of the Health Committee raised, among others, the discussion of the project under examination. problems with reporting on the functioning of the oncology package to the National Health Fund - mentioned earlier by me article. 32c. On the other hand, they raised concerns as to whether the abandonment of a combination of diagnostics and oncology treatment with the simultaneous obligation to fill out a tumor notification card would not result in a deepening and so low rate of cancer registration in the National Cancer Register, which is only 13% in our country. In particular, the inconsistencies between the transfer to the draft law of the appointment of an oncology coordinator, whose tasks are currently included at the level of the Minister of Health regulation, while leaving at the level of the Minister of Health a record of a multidisciplinary therapeutic team and recommending the possibility for this team to refrain from planning oncology treatment. This provision, according to the members of the committee, in the regulation of the Minister of Health, may make it a daily practice to eliminate multidisciplinary syndrome from the process of diagnosis and oncology treatment. This will harm patients, reduce the quality and standard of treatment and, as a result, worsen long-term outcomes. The Health Commission voted in favour of the draft law amending the Law on public-funded healthcare provision and presents a proposal to the High House for its adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u101	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Latos, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club with regard to the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care, prints 1098 and 1240 respectively. It should be stressed that, after about 2 years of operation of the oncology package, specific conclusions and reflections on the functioning of the package arise. It is also worth noting that a number of demands have already been made in the previous term of office regarding the need to modify and draw some conclusions on the functioning of this package. It is therefore a good thing that the government presents a project that meets the expectations of at least some of the changes that have been signalled so far. It seems, among other things, to me. correct and desirable some simplification of reporting, simplification both in terms of form - I am thinking here about the possibility of using electronic form - and as regards the scope of certain information and the way in which it is placed in the so-called. DiLO card. It was also because of this that there was sometimes a different kind of unnecessary delay in the use of therapy. A number of oncological environments, including oncology, stressed that while the DiLO card in some cases serves oncology patients and is needed, for example, due to certain statistical data, sometimes also due to its functioning and certain requirements there are certain, sometimes unnecessary, temporary transfers. Therefore, certain procedures, such as those related to calling or not always calling consilies, also seem worth emphasising and noticing, because all of us should have a clear idea of maximum effectiveness, firstly, in diagnostics, secondly, in reaching effective therapy. This will probably require further changes, including in the future. Further action will also be needed in relation to a certain procedure, with procedures that were launched through the oncology package 2 years ago and are not fully effective. These are, for example, issues related to the demands of environmental pathomorphologists. According to them, this will give us a chance to shorten diagnostics by another two weeks. All of this, of course, requires further careful analysis. For the time being, I can express my satisfaction with this amendment and, on behalf of the parliamentary club, declare my support for this government amendment of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u103	Thank you, sir. Today, the Sejm is visited by students and carers from the Craft School in Łukow. Welcome to the Seym very warmly. [[Applause]] And now I invite Mr Zbigniew Pawłowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u104	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Because I am ahead of Mr Miller here, I will allow myself a brief, two minutes from the club performance. My speech is due to the need to submit three amendments to the bill being proceded. I wanted to give them a brief explanation. Since the Act eliminates the evaluation of POZ doctors in the field of filling DiLO cards, it is proposed to introduce an additional remuneration for primary healthcare doctors, because we will not achieve good results in oncology treatment if we do not detect cancer early. And this is generally in the hands of primary healthcare doctors. This is the first amendment. The second amendment concerns a multidisciplinary therapeutic team. And here I do not agree a little with my fellow Member Latos, if I may say so, because as director of a large oncology centre, with a lot of experience, I would like to say that this is the greatest success of the oncology package in terms of the results of treatment and patients. Patients do not need to go to other specialists, and this is determined by one multidisciplinary syndrome. As far as votes are concerned - and I particularly address to the Minister - some of the groups who say that this is a problem for them, it seems that they should not treat cancer if they do not meet these criteria. Therefore, I will ask for amendment 2 to be accepted, which is to include in point 4 instead of a doctor, a single person who is to establish a treatment plan, the data of a multidisciplinary therapeutic syndrome. The third amendment is a formal amendment and concerns Article. 1 point 7, where we speak in Article. 32c that the reports are to be made by the end of the second quarter. I propose that these reports be up to the end of the first quarter, because if we are to draw any conclusions from the evaluation of the effectiveness of diagnosis and treatment, it is good that they are at the beginning of the year and not at the end. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u105	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the law on public-funded healthcare provision, print No. 1098. The aim of the bill is to modify the so-called. The oncology package introduced by the Act of 22 July 2014. The legislator proposes new regulations on the basis of the experience of the oncology package. The oncology package, which has been in operation for over a year, has received a positive opinion from both patient groups and experts. Analysis of this project prepared by the Polish Coalition of Oncological Patients of 15 December 2016 showed that 97% patients tested by the coalition confirm the need for it and positively assess changes in the treatment system. The report created by experts of the health system entitled "Social monitoring of the implementation and implementation of the oncology package" states: The main assumptions of the package were It's done. The waiting time for diagnostics and oncology treatment has been reduced. A number of instruments and measures have been put in place to improve the difficult process that cancer patients undergo. For the first time, health regulations take into account the voice of patients and organisations representing them. We assume that the Minister's intention is to continue the good package and implement the oncology package project. On the other hand, the very worrying fact that we may fail to pay attention to is the following assumptions for the amendment, which may have negative effects. Firstly, it is a record that allows you to withdraw from medical consilies, i.e. to undermine one of the most important assumptions of the functioning of the current oncology package. This record is very important for the patient and his further treatment. Providing the patient with oncology at the beginning of the treatment process for a team of specialists such as oncologists, surgeons, radiotherapists, chemo therapists and many other doctors, in one place to determine the further treatment process is an undoubted achievement of the package. The creation of an opportunity to withdraw from consilies without precise identification of the list of diseases for which this is possible and only on the basis of an enigmatic record of justified cases poses real risks to the proper functioning of consilies. It is also worrying to note the need to report when issuing the DiLO card to the National Cancer Register. Only full information on the occurrence of cancer [[♪ The bell ♪]] allows planning and strategy of their treatment. Poland is still far from Europe in terms of early diagnosis of cancers and the effectiveness of their treatment. For this reason, we need to develop intensive medical records with external and internal validation, because only such records objectively demonstrate the effectiveness and ability of therapeutic treatment. We also believe that the withdrawal by the Minister of Health from the reduction of quality indicators in relation to family doctors is not good for the patient. In Europe, the rate of effectiveness and recognition of primary health care for cancer varies between 1:6 and 1:8, in Poland - 1:15. A diagnosis of cancer is required without determining...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u107	You're very close to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u108	I'm almost done. ...a type of tumor. We do not agree with the desire to improve quality indicators in the diagnosis process, which is intended to serve patients. Your marshal, unfortunately, I don't have enough time to present the rest of the objections, but they're more technical. In the case of these entries, if they are not amended and not taken into account... [[You can give it back in writing.]] Mr President, you are the marshal, and it is your marshal who is holding the sitting, not you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u109	But, gentlemen, time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u110	Therefore, the Civic Platform Club will not vote in favour of such provisions in the proposed Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u111	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Latos, as corrected for his statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u112	Thank you very much, Marshal. I am addressing the Member, as I am from Bydgoszcz, Mr Pavlovicz. I think I've been misunderstood, so I'll explain to you that there's no doubt here. I share the view of the weight of the consillas and here I have actually been misunderstood. It's about some situations where you can walk away from them. And I hope, of course, that these will be selected, rare situations, but in a certain way justified. You and I know there are cases where you can give up these consilies when they're mandatory. Another thing is whether it really should be written somewhere, which potentially can be the case, whether it is good or bad. Either way, you and I will be watching how this will work after this change. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u113	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I have the honour to present our position on the government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds, seym prints No. 1098 and 1240. This bill modifies so-called. oncology package. The changes concern, among others: simplify reporting on waiting lists for benefits provided on the basis of a diagnostic and oncological treatment card, so-called DiLO card, simplify this card and extend and make it more flexible. The proposal to simplify reporting and to make the rules for issuing oncology and diagnostic cards more flexible is a good solution and, together with other minor changes in this area, should contribute to a better organisation of public-funded diagnostics and oncology treatment. A separate category of amendments to the bill constitutes the right of the Minister of Health to include in the official journal the recommendations of national scientific associations concerning the diagnosis and treatment of diseases. The objective of this change is unclear, and the idea of including this provision in the Public Health Services Act is controversial. The proposed amendment to the Article. The 11th Act on Benefits does not have a major impact on the process of diagnosis and oncology treatment and other fields of medicine. The effects of the amendment mentioned in the explanatory memorandum are not supported by substantive arguments or a diagnosis of the current state, which would indicate that such actions by the Minister of Health will increase the availability of comprehensive oncology treatment, which will contribute to the provision of high-quality healthcare services and the safety of recipients. To some extent, they will only increase the statistical and administrative burden of providers. [[Blah, blah, blah.]] The recommendations for diagnosis and treatment developed by scientific associations of specialists in the field of medicine do not apply only to public-funded benefits. Under the laws, doctors are obliged to pursue their profession in accordance with current knowledge. Making it easier for doctors to reach this knowledge is the right thing to do, but it should be an appropriate change in the Act on Competitions for Doctors and Dentists. Content of the additional Article. 32c is not legible and in accordance with the proposed paragraph. 2 of this article does not need to be used by the provider to assess oncological diagnosis and oncology treatment for the calculation of the effectiveness of diagnosis and oncology treatment. There is also a question of what such performance indicators will be used for in practice. Despite some reservations, the Kukiz Club will not vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u115	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club with regard to the government's draft law on amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds. The amendment concerns so-called. an oncology package to ensure effective and rapid diagnosis of patients suspected of cancer. The number of people diagnosed with malignant tumours exceeds 150,000. per year. These patients do not have time for careless oncology solutions. In my opinion, the current rules, which are one of the most important elements of the system when a patient is suspected of having cancer, are one of the most important elements of the system. The allegations that in some hospitals it is called only by the facade should not constitute grounds for limiting its role. The requirement to convene a consilium without avoiding the stage of diagnosis provides, first of all, the possibility of developing a more comprehensive treatment plan. As a result of consulting other doctors, the chance to make a correct diagnosis and as a result cure the patient increases. As Mr Pavłowicz rightly said, there is a team called MDT in every respectable oncology centre. I am not an oncologist, I am an orthopedician, but from Poznań oncologists I know that the work or results of MDT activities are unpaid, while the consylium is paid. Isn't this about financial matters? I am very pleased to be able to improve, not replace existing projects. However, this should be done primarily for the patient, not for the convenience of the doctor, as is the case in this case. Cancer is one of the hardest moments in a patient's and human's life. The doctor's role is to take care of the patient's surroundings and provide professional treatment so that he knows that he can effectively fight the disease. Another problem with oncology treatment is still common limits. The system must therefore be amended throughout health care, since possible over-executions will always involve further hospital debt. We must bear in mind that, according to the forecasts of the Oncology 2025 Foundation, the number of patients is unfortunately to continue to grow. Due to the fact that Modern is strongly committed to the protection of the health and well-being of the patient, until the patient changes the patient's negative records, this project is unacceptable in our view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u117	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u118	Thank you very much. Honourable Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law on amending the Act on healthcare services financed by public funds. Firstly, I would like to express my satisfaction that the draft oncology package introduced for the previous coalition is not condemned by the current government majority. This is a rare case when we are dealing with a continuation, and I am very pleased that it is happening, although the proposals for changes that are presented today raise doubts about some groups. I think that for all of us the basic value is to improve the process of detecting cancer diseases in Poland. This was the aim of the government in the last term of office when it was creating an oncology package. Bet on rapid, early diagnosis and inclusion of a cancer patient - a comprehensive package of activities including interdisciplinary teams, priority actions related to detection, treatment and subsequent patient care. It worked. do And it needs to be continued, and it needs to be strengthened. If there are any shortcomings, they should also be corrected. Of course, we are all in favour of reducing the administrative burden in medicine, because the problem is that doctors, nurses or other medical professionals spend more time filling out surveys, forms of various forms and nailing stamps rather than treating patients is, in my opinion, a fundamental problem of Polish health care. The amount of administrative burdens imposed on medical staff exceeds the possibility of spending time on patient care and any change that limits the administrative responsibilities of doctors and nurses will be supported by the club of the Polish People's Party. [[What's the limit?]] But to have 100% I'd like to ask the Minister a few questions. The answer to these questions depends on the behaviour, the position of our club during the vote. The first issue was raised by Mr Ruciński, Mr Pawłowicz, Mr Miller, and concerns the consilium. Would this soft provision - some Members of the committee use this wording - to withdraw from the consilium limit patients' ability to use interdisciplinary teams? Will the changes you are proposing speed up early detection of cancer? Will this not introduce any restrictions on the use of specialists and will the changes you propose shorten the diagnostic process and speed up the healing process? Of course, in terms of medical knowledge, which is the main base here. Early detection is very necessary, and I would also like to see it again, in favour of Professor Zembala, who spoke a lot about it in the committee, repeat it, and all our efforts should be directed towards it. Changes that are possible in this law should also always be consulted and with the medical community and with the patient's environment. I know that these consultations have taken place, but if the Minister could further expand the information on these consultations and say what changes have been made to the project after these consultations, I would also be obliged to do so. But with hope I accept the formula of the discussion that has been carried out on this project, and the fact that there is no negation of these solutions, is only the desire to evolve them, to change them. I hope it will be a change that improves, but I ask the Minister to assure me. If further amendments are needed, we are, of course, ready to cooperate, only to cooperate in such a real way, not to get confused in our own opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I, too, would like to ask you a question about the medical consilies. The bill introduces the possibility for patients to withdraw from the mandatory till now consilium. At the same time, the Act does not specify when, in which cases consilies may be abandoned. And that's too bad, because it's very important. For county hospitals it is a positive change, as these hospitals often do not have enough doctors required to organise such consilies. They're having problems with that. Will not such a provision on the possibility of withdrawal from the consilium be overused to the detriment of the patient and will not reduce the quality of treatment, thus the effectiveness of this treatment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u121	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask three short questions. The first question concerns an indicator that has so far been in force by a family doctor. Are you not assuming that another indicator should be introduced to encourage family doctors to maybe a more reliable diagnosis in the direction of oncology, because in this case patients can be directed mainly to specialists and queues to these specialists again extend? You are introducing an oncology diagnostic efficiency indicator and I would like to ask what it is intended to serve and why it is introduced here. And the third question concerns the national oncology register. At the moment, the doctor automatically reports it by filling in the DiLO card, and now you are withdrawing from it so that there may be problems here. I would like to feel that way, especially since the IT systems are already adapted to this and there is no problem. And that's another question, ladies and gentlemen. You tell the doctor and the medical staff to devote more time to the patient while you're introducing the coordinator, but there's no mention of the coordinator's salary. And in cardiac care, you're pointing to a specific salary that's due. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the coordinator of such care. Isn't that something to think about here, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u123	Thank you very much. I invite you, sir. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Once again, the consyli theme comes back. Consillia is a grammar that must qualify patients for oncology treatment. Perhaps derogations from this and the possibility of non-compliance with the obligation to organise consilies should be corrected with quality monitoring? Do you think that all hospitals in Poland, even county hospitals that do not have - and here there have been several such opinions - so many doctors, so many oncologists, have to perform oncology treatments? Shouldn't we focus on those hospitals that have excellent staff, excellent doctors, diagnostic equipment that have excellent results? I think that without monitoring the quality of the procedures oncology has nothing to say about improvement and availability, and the quality of these benefits. Besides, registration for the National Cancer Register has so far been a mandatory obligation for every doctor. Today, it is as if the permission not to complete this register raises great controversy, because it could disturb any assessment of the epidemiology of cancer and further planning of treatment. So once again, I ask: Do all hospitals have to carry out an oncology package, whether all hospitals have to carry oncology, and whether we can control the quality of services and monitor the quality of the service, which will be an indicator for the payer, for the fund or for the budget, when transferring funds for oncology treatment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u125	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mark Kwitk, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the problem of the quality of oncology treatment in our country requires decisive action. Any solution that allows for faster and more effective treatment of patients for whom each day is a struggle for survival is without doubt a right and necessary step. Simplifying reporting procedures will certainly increase the possibility for doctors to provide assistance, often delayed in relation to real needs by excessive bureaucratic procedures that make it difficult to save people's lives. Reducing these burdens will enable us to concentrate effectively on saving the health and life of the sick. Undoubtedly, the introduction of solutions that will help to channel funds to centres where the highest number of people will be cured will make the treatment of diseases more effective. I have the following question in relation to the contested law: How long has it been since the proposed changes entered into force to check the effectiveness of the implemented solutions? And second question: What are further solutions planned to increase the availability and effectiveness of oncology treatment in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u127	Thank you very much. And the last question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos, the club... [[Not yet!]] Excuse me. Excuse me. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. I was wrong about the switch. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u128	It's okay. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Every fourth death in Poland is due to cancer. Last Saturday was the day of open oncology and once again the oncologists said 80% patients are reported to an oncologist in such a condition when the oncology disease is already highly advanced. One of the causes diagnosed is insufficient preparation of POZ doctors. And my question to the Minister of Health: Does the Ministry of Health foresee changes in the preparation of POZ doctors for even a preliminary diagnosis of cancer diseases? This concerns changes both in the compulsory programme of doctor training at medical universities and in complementary and excellent training for POZ doctors.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u129	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr. Tomasz Latos... [[You're still an MP.]] Excuse me, Mr. Andrzej Hryj. I'm very glad you're here... I'm in a mess with this switch. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice. [[Relax, Marshal. It's going really well anyway.]] But it could go better.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u130	Yes, sir. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For many years, the oncology community has put forward two requests to improve the functioning of oncology care. They want this care to be comprehensive and coordinated. To achieve these two objectives, elements such as oncology care standards, control of the quality of oncology care both in the field of diagnosis and treatment, increase patient access to oncology care of the highest quality, improve access to information on treatment for patients and communication with these patients, introduce coordination of oncology care in the voivodship, i.e. cooperation between providers, directing patients to competence centres, speeding up the path of an oncology patient and monitoring and rationalising expenditure on on oncology care by the payer. I would like to ask whether these changes that are being proposed at the moment will in any way achieve the objectives that I am talking about, and if not, whether such actions are planned in the future, which will be able to achieve these objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u131	Thank you very much, sir. And indeed the last question, please, Mr Tomasz Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a brief question, all the more so as the Health Committee meeting should already begin, with your participation. So I'm just gonna ask you a quick question. I mean coordination at regional level. Is there anything you want to do about it, or is there any fitting? I understand that this goes beyond this amendment, but it seems that the issue is important, which is why I'm asking for an answer in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u133	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Katarzyna Głowala. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u134	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! So I'm going to start by answering the questions, because there was a repeated question about consilies. As far as consiliia is concerned, the Ministry of Health does not intend to give up consilies. In the oncology package, in the bill that is being processed today, there are no entries on consilies, because the question of consilies is placed in the so-called. a basket regulation. And as far as consilia is concerned, it is not changed there, it is only the possibility of giving up consilies, but only in justified cases, and when the doctor resigns from consilies, it must be justified in the patient's treatment card. With regard to the reduction of 1:15, which was imposed on primary healthcare doctors, we are giving up on this indicator because after the oncology package has been in operation for these 2 years, it has turned out that such a case has not occurred in relation to this indicator. Therefore, the rule is simply dead, and that is why we are giving up this cancer detection rate. One at a time, I'll start by asking questions. As far as Mr Kosiniak-Kamish is concerned, I have already responded to the consilies. All the changes we make will speed up the diagnosis of the treatment, all the changes we propose, are designed to accelerate the diagnosis. [[We're watching. We're watching.]] As far as Mrs. Zofia Czernow is concerned, I have already partially responded to the consilies because you asked about the consilia. As far as Mrs Gelert is concerned, the family doctor indicator, I also replied. The measure of diagnostic efficiency - we are introducing an indicator of diagnostic efficiency precisely for this purpose, it will be certain meters that the subject will be able to announce, will have to report and therefore, on the basis of these meters of this indicator we will analyse whether the individual actually... or the patient's treatment is improving. When it comes to reporting to the National Cancer Register, we don't give up on it. Reporting to the National Register The cancers will continue. Only that until now it was done so that the doctor already at the time of detection, confirmed cancer had to report directly, and we leave the possibility that reporting to the National Cancer Register will be possible not only by the doctor who detected it, but by another person, and on the basis of: only after diagnosis, i.e. first treating the patient, and only later reporting to the National Cancer Register. As far as Mrs Hrynkiewicz is concerned, are we providing for changes in the training of POZ doctors in the field of cancer diagnosis. The law on the training of doctors will soon be amended. Work is underway at the Ministry of Health regarding general training of doctors, not only POZ, but also AOS, and we are likely to amend the laws in this respect to improve what you have asked. [[Probably or really?]] Work is underway, and it is therefore difficult for me today to tell what it will look like to go on. But there's work to be done. As regards Mr Latos, coordination of regional levels. Work is underway at the Ministry of Health. For today I can only say that it is taken into account, it is analyzed, but about the details, I think, in the near future. As regards remuneration for coordinators, unfortunately, the benefit law is not the place where the remuneration for the coordinator should be regulated. Mr Hok - konsylia, I have also responded, registration to the KRN. Mr Marek Kwitek - monitoring the effectiveness of solutions. That's all we're introducing, is some kind of control, and that's all that's going to be, what's in the package, is trying to make the oncology package even better. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Zbigniew Pawłowicz, will also speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u136	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you all very much for your vote in the debate. This proves that the cancer has no party colors and we all care that this poor condition of the results of the treatment - far away, because the condition of Polish oncology is not bad, but unfortunately we cannot improve good results of the treatment - is getting better. I will refer to the Minister's speech. Minister, I am very pleased that you confirm that you are not going to give up consilies, but this is contradicted by the bill that you are presenting, because in the article. 32b. 2 point 4 you enter a record: the doctor involved in determining the oncology treatment plan, while if we are talking about the consilium, this should include: the doctors of the multidisciplinary syndrome - that is, in short, the consilium - who are planning the treatment. And I hope the Ministry will support the amendments I tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u137	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. Today's amendment is the result of an analysis of the functioning of the so-called. the oncology package and as part of its rapid oncology therapy, a solution that allows patients with malignant cancer to gain a real chance of recovery by intensifying their actions leading to diagnosis and subsequent treatment. The government's proposal proposes a number of changes that will significantly improve the effectiveness of this solution. These include simplifying reporting of waiting lists and simplifying the diagnostics and oncology treatment card. It is planned to extend the list of doctors who will be able to issue a DiLO card, which is beneficial and will significantly facilitate the work and speed up the diagnostic process of patients for whom the detection of the disease at the earliest stage is a key factor in recovery. In my view, the new powers given to the Health Minister will also serve to increase the efficiency and availability of the benefits in question in the future. In addition to the favourable changes proposed by the applicants, there are also those which raise my concerns and concerns. The first is to give up the cancer recognition rate, after which the primary healthcare professional had to undergo training in cancer recognition in order to regain the right to issue a DiLO card. While I consider the temporary withdrawal of the possibility of issuing a DiLO card to be a disadvantage for patients, the obligation of a specialist doctor to provide training was only to increase his knowledge and to improve his work efficiency and consequently to serve patients. I also share the doubts raised during the meeting of the Committee on Health regarding the possibility of withdrawing from consilies. I am afraid that the wording contained in the impact assessment for the draft regulation of the Minister of Health that talks about planning the introduction of this possibility may have very far-reaching negative effects on patients. The absence of a specific list of cases where this withdrawal is medically justified may have counterproductive effects. The mere imposition of an obligation to include justification in the card is not a preventive action, especially since the control may take place after injury has been caused to the patient. I hope that my doubts will be resolved during the further procession. At the same time, the multitude of positive aspects of the project lead to its support.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u139	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of items 8 and 9 of the agenda: 8. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre (prints Nos 1216 and 1245). 9. Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft Law Provisions introducing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre (Prints No 1217 and 1246). I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The project concerns the optimisation of the functioning of agricultural agencies, the establishment of the National Centre for Agricultural Support as the primary institution carrying out the tasks of rural development programming together with the task of carrying out the policy of managing agricultural real estate remaining in the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury, the establishment of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as the only paying agency of the European Union in the territory of the Republic, the acquisition by the NOWR of the agricultural and personal assets of the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency. The proposed law responds to the fact that the current institutional structure of agricultural and rural support based in particular on the activities of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency does not ensure effective implementation of the concept of multifunctional rural development in Poland. During the meeting on 27 January 2017, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development held a substantive discussion on the project. Two amendments were tabled on the repeal of the Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 3 of the draft law, which was rejected by the committee. In its vote, the committee voted in favour of the proposal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development welcomes the draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre, advocates its adoption and asks the honourable House to adopt the law. Your Marshal, or your second report as well?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u141	Yeah, together. These are total reports. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u142	Good. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law Rules introducing a law on the National Agricultural Support Centre, this is print No. 1217. The legislative package based on two laws: the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Law on the Law on the National Agricultural Support Centre aims to optimise the functioning of the agencies and, at the next stage, other units subordinate to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and supervised by that Ministry by changing their organisation in order to improve the use of resources and improve cooperation and the flow of information in the field of agricultural operators and aid, as well as to reduce the costs of institutional farming services. During the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on 27 January 2017, a substantive discussion was held on this project. Seven amendments were tabled, which were accepted by the committee. The most important of these concerns the change of the date of entry into force of the proposed provisions from 1 July to 1 September 2017. In its vote, the committee unanimously voted in favour of the proposal, together with the amendments. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development welcomes the proposal submitted by the Government for a law introducing a law on the National Agricultural Support Centre, supports its adoption and asks the honourable House to adopt a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u143	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! These are the laws expected by farmers needed to implement, which is why the Law and Justice Club supports them. To bring the agencies together, the Law and Justice Club spoke in an electoral campaign because the agencies that are currently operating are largely overlapping in their activities, in their activities. There is a need to sort this out to create a single office so that a farmer who needs to do something for his farm, for his agriculture, can do it at one window. These two draft laws are a step in this direction. The matter is not yet fully settled, this is the beginning of the creation of one office, one agency that is needed, as I said at the outset, and also expected by farmers. We were with the Bavarian commission the other day. There the system is so designed that all the agencies, and the payments, and the substantive, as well as the farm advisory center, are in one office. This system, I think, is a good system, because a Bavarian farmer, when he needs it, knows that in this building there is an office or an agency in every district that will solve his agricultural problem. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]] To further clarify these projects, I would like to make four amendments on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Three are legislative, highly sequencing, and one amendment will divide the field office in the Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship into two, because the Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship has the percentage of the property from the Treasury resource and is one of the larger voivodships. This is a need, as I said at the outset, to have a farmer closer to the office, which is why we propose such an amendment. I'm putting all four amendments in your hands, Marshal. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u145	Who is very grateful for this amendment with regard to the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. Thank you, sir. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Plocke. You're welcome, sir. Mr Pomerania, too, is grateful for this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u146	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The provisions of the draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Introductory Act may not be implemented. We believe that this is due to the following reasons. Firstly, direct supervision will be removed from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. Currently, these tasks are carried out by entities set up on the basis of decommissioned resource management units. Therefore, the fundamental question that appears here is who will exercise real supervision of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and what this can mean in practice. It'll probably mean so much that it's called. The land, the tenant, will handle matters in the voivodship city, where the seat of the National Agricultural Support Centre will be, and not, so far, in other units that are closer to the tenant. Secondly, the impact assessment shows that the state budget will save over PLN 1 billion in 10 years in connection with the creation of the new institution, and in our opinion the value of the savings raises reasonable doubts, especially since the cost of changes to the headquarters of the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency and the voivodeship branches at the level of PLN 10 million was accepted in the OSR assumptions. In our opinion, this value is underestimated. Both agencies' headquarters have changed their seat and concluded long-term lease contracts for a period of 7 years without the possibility of sub-letting or shortening the lease period. Minister, we would like to know what the value of the lease or lease is, which is paid annually by the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency. Then we will also have an answer to the question of what the costs of these institutions are borne by the budget. Thirdly, the justification for the law does not suggest that detailed analyses of the staff needs of the new institution should be carried out. In advance, a 30% job reduction was assumed at the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency. It has been omitted that the amendment of the Law of April 2016 on the suspension of the sale of agricultural land imposed new tasks on the Agricultural Property Agency in the form of administrative decisions on the acquisition of agricultural property. This is estimated to be up to tens of thousands a year. Thousands of cases should also assess the needs of on-the-spot checks. Who's gonna do this? In our view, the government did not take into account this scope of activity of the Agricultural Property Agency. We consider it necessary to carry out a detailed analysis of the reduction in employment. Fourthly, the conditions for employment and the remuneration of workers within the new institution will change. The adopted design does not define stable conditions for workers, which may cause legal disputes in the future, and we know that the authority of the institution is determined by satisfied employees, Minister, as always and everywhere. Minister, we'd also like to ask you questions. Please respond in writing. Firstly, on the basis of what criteria will the verifications be carried out with the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency? Who will receive employment at the National Agricultural Support Centre and who will not? Secondly, did the government foresee that such a significant reduction in employment would weaken the supervision of the State Treasury and slow down the provision of agricultural property, especially to farmers? We believe that such a threat exists. We consider that the private market surveillance introduced by the April 2016 Act will become fiction, in fact it will be fiction. Is that what the government was about? There are no compelling reasons to remove the institution of the Agricultural Property Agency, which has carried out its tasks, which was a self-financing institution and which transfers funds to the State budget. We believe that this is a mistake and that the solutions that have been introduced or proposed by the government can harm and be detrimental to the Polish village, as well as to farmers. An important issue which is to be resolved, and here too, we ask the Minister for a clear answer, namely how the participation of the Agricultural Property Agency will be guaranteed in the ongoing court proceedings concerning the State Treasury's claims from former tenants or perpetual land users. We would also like to know what the value of these liabilities is, what is the scale, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that we have the opportunity to answer these important questions to the farmers concerned. In connection with the debate and with our critical assessment of this project, we will vote against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u147	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre. I would like to stress once again that, in my view, the merger of agencies is a good solution, but the proposal to merge only two agencies instead of three is a half-way solution and the effects of such a change will only be partially satisfactory. Moreover, it is a superficial reform that has little in common with agricultural support. As an example of a comprehensive and forward-looking look at the problem of multiple types of offices or inspections, I would like to present the draft law on the Polish Food Institute submitted by Kukiz on Monday, consolidating 10 scientific units, which currently function as the scientific facilities of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Research institutes have a very important role to play in the development of science and the dissemination of knowledge, and it is therefore particularly important that they carry out their duties properly to make full use of their scientific potential through the transfer of existing competences to one entity. This will have a positive social impact, reduce bureaucracy, cost of operations, and increase transparency in the functioning of public administrations. The creation of the Polish Food Institute will benefit entrepreneurs, consumers, as well as the state budget. The combination of 10 entities currently carrying out research activities that support Polish agriculture will allow savings of PLN 9 million per year, as well as to ensure greater efficiency and complementarity of the research work carried out. I hope that the Ministry will appreciate our solution and not throw a good project into the basket in the form of a seym freezer just because it is not by law and justice. I also call on the Minister to not start working on his own project, which will be similar and will only extend the work and the entry into force of this solution. Let's work together, improve, but let's not duplicate our work. Returning to the contested bill, I am pleased that the Ministry has postponed the entry into force of this law by 2 months; it is complicated in terms of organization. At the same time, I repeat that combining agencies and various other institutes is a good solution. We are very much looking forward to a reliable merger of these two agencies. I would also like to stress that I do not agree with the possibility provided for in the bill to increase public debt through the issuance of bonds by the National Agricultural Support Centre, which will be able to establish all forms of securing its financial obligations on managed property, e.g. Here it can also be a mortgage on agricultural land. Such a mechanism may constitute a potential channel for the acquisition of land, which must be prevented at the moment. The rotation of agricultural land is subject to special restrictions, therefore the possibility, even if potentially, to circumvent the provisions of the Law on the suspension of the sale of real estate from the stock of agricultural property of the State Treasury should be blocked. To this end, I am making amendments to your Marshal, which aim to block the possibility of issuing bonds by a national centre and which, I hope, will be welcomed by the Committee on Agriculture. Without these amendments, Kukiz15 will not be able to support this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u149	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u150	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! The easiest way to improve the functioning of the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture would be to include the ARR in the structure of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. In this way, all personal and material resources would be in one agency and, if possible, it would be possible to systematically optimize employment and local connections and, as we know, these changes would cause really great costs. This would enable the objectives of this change to be achieved and would not jeopardise the Agency's projects. The Agricultural Property Agency of the State Treasury is responsible for managing agricultural real estate and privatization, and in the current structure it can continue to do so. Creating new structures will bring chaos. It is important to see how the evolution of the creation of a single paying agency, within which payments related to the common agricultural policy will be made, will be assessed by the European Commission. We still do not know anything about this, although it is true that the European Commission recommended one accredited paying agency in the EU countries. The entry into force of the Act is to be postponed by 2 months. It does not, in my opinion, make a greater difference in the introduction of such a significant and demanding good preparation of the bill. Minister Babalski has emphasized many times that the work on this law is only 15 months long, and since August last year it has been on issues related to accreditation. This is a project by the Minister of Finance. We hope that farmers will not suffer from this. The national centre shall be entitled to use the system of producer records, the farm records and the records of payment applications. There is no justification for such advanced powers. There is no doubt that the amendment is also intended to replace staff, which is no longer particularly surprising, because the actions of the governing party are precisely such as to ensure that officials are pro-government in all important public institutions. The Ministry estimates that the redundant workers will be around 30%, hoping that some of them will already be entitled to retire. However, the Ministry lacks the idea of what to do with the rest of the people released. We hope that the situation will not repeat with further major staff changes in other state institutions, because the redundancies will multiply. Farmers point out that so far there have been too few field agencies, as my predecessors have already said. This project will ensure the continuation of this problem. Wouldn't it be advisable to include the establishment of a branch in voivodship cities in the statutes of the National Centre for Agricultural Support? The establishment of a subsidiary shall be left to the Director, which may constitute an unnecessary optional nature. In conclusion, paying attention to all that I have mentioned, at this moment the Modern Posel Club cannot support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u151	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Marek Sawicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! During my first reading, I referred more to the substance layer. Let me remind you that the concept of combining payments within the framework of the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture in one entity, the restructuring agency, is the right concept. On the other hand, as regards issues relating to the linking part of the tasks of the Agricultural Market Agency with the tasks of the Agricultural Property Agency, I believe that time and practice will show that this is a wrong move. On the basis of the tasks left behind by the Agricultural Market Agency, it was worth to think about creating a solid, for export of European and global agencies promoting Polish food, Polish product. Of course, you have accepted, the ruling party of the PiS, the United Right has adopted a different concept. [[Law and Justice, sir.]] Probably in two years, three years from now, we'll be able to determine, evaluate and refer to this concept. Without questioning the right to the changes that you are making, after examining the committee's report, I would like to add four minor amendments to the report on the Rules introducing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. I think the first three are more editorial, while Amendment 4 on Article. 51 concerns the maintenance of the protection of persons of pre-retirement age and pregnant women or on maternity leave, so that during the time of the staff cleaning which will be carried out, their rights are respected in re-employment and that they are not treated in the same way as other workers. That's why I'm putting these amendments in the hands of your marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u153	Thank you very much, sir. Two Members joined the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. Two minutes to ask a question. Please, Mrs Margaret Navel will be the first to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just after the election, you changed your leadership positions in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency. The whole crowd of Pisiewiczs, most often without experience and substantive preparation, sat on management stools in the county and voivodship structures of these agencies. [[Mrs...]] The most important functions are the members of the Law and Justice, your candidates for councillors and voivodships in previous elections, PiS sympathizers and those who had to make up for their work during the election campaign. This is clearly seen in our regions, sir. I don't want to give names. [[In ours?]] Yeah, right in ours and on a national scale. But that's not enough. You have to create one institution in place of two, because then it won't be so transparent. That's what you're talking about. Already people who know the subject say it's not going to be a National Center. Supporting agriculture, just finishing agriculture, because it's a misunderstanding. There's no going back, there's no going back, there's no going back, there's no going back, there's no going back, there's no going back, there's no going back, there's no going back, there's no going back, there's no going back, there's no going back, there's no going back, I therefore have a question about the detailed calculation of the estimated savings for the creation of the new institution and the liquidation of the two agencies. There is talk of over PLN 1 billion. Please indicate in writing what these savings will result from and what will be the cost of winding up the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u155	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Anna Cicholska for a question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u156	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The establishment of the National Agricultural Support Centre as the primary institution for rural development programming, together with the task of managing agricultural real estate policies remaining in the Treasury's Agricultural Property Resources, is a good change. For this reason, I have only a question as to whether, at the date of the establishment of the National Agricultural Support Centre, IT systems serving farmers will be prepared for the proper service of farmers and whether this will result in possible delays in the execution of payments and in the examination of applications. What will be the cost of adapting the IT system of the National Agricultural Support Centre to the proper functioning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u157	Thank you, Member. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Zbigniew Babalski, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for taking part in the discussion, I listened attentively to the positions of the various clubs. Of course, as you wish, the answers to these questions that have been asked here will be in writing. Thank you for your questions, too. I will refer in general to those comments which have been made. I am very pleased that you are simply following this law, because if you are proposing amendments - and probably tomorrow or in the near future there will be a committee meeting - if you are proposing amendments to this law, you are probably also noticing the need for this regulation that we want to introduce. It is difficult to agree with such, say, allegations that there will be no supervision of who will do this. KOWR, the National Agricultural Support Centre, is a legal successor, so practically those people who are doing these activities are going to continue to do them. There will be some tasks from the Agricultural Market Agency, but there will also be people. I would like to remind you that there will be 1778 jobs at the National Agricultural Support Centre, today there is 1850 in the restructuring and modernisation agencies. I am already talking about jobs, which will also be transferred from the Agricultural Market Agency - 11 302 jobs will be made in the restructuring and modernisation agencies after the expiry of the Agricultural Market Agency. You will admit that this is a large number of people prepared to support Polish agriculture. Well, how can we agree that we are dismissing, so to speak, these institutions from the Polish farmer? 12 delegated tasks, which will be taken over by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, will be placed in the county offices of the same institution, and these county offices we have in the country 316, these tasks of the Agricultural Market Agency. After all, we know very well that practically, there was no Agricultural Market Agency in the field, only voivodships. Some of it will go to the county offices. I am not saying that we do not have any concerns that this will function flawlessly, but the proposal we are making is so thoughtful that practically, we should, perhaps not all, but the vast majority of problems that may arise, eliminate. They should be eliminated. The amendments will certainly be followed by a committee, we will be familiar with the agricultural resort, these amendments, and we will pass on our opinion during the process in the agriculture committee. There were also charges here, why we only have two, not three at once. Because that is the case in the countries of the European Union, that practically, it is a division into a pro-development agency, a promotional agency, as one of the previous speakers mentioned, and an agency that has accreditation, that is, a paying agency, in this case the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Bonds. One of the representatives of the Kukiza club, Mr. Chairman of the Agriculture Committee, accuses... This is, it works in the Real Estate Act of 1991, it is agreed by the Minister of Finance on the one hand with regard to bonds and, on the other hand, with regard to collateral, for example. mortgage, watch over it and supervise it by the Minister of Agriculture. It's a charge that we've been working on this bill for 15 months. That's not true. In my speech, as I presented the assumptions of the drafts of these laws, I clearly indicated that we started work on 23 August 2016, so it seems to me that this is probably a mistake as far as these months are concerned. On that day, on August 23rd, we launched these draft laws for public consultation. Questions about savings of 1 billion in 10 years. There is no Member. This is very detailed described in the OSR, the impact assessment of regulation, it is enough to read it well and there will be answers to this question. Mrs Cicholska, a very appropriate question. This is one of the key issues that we need to solve, and that is effectively addressed. I want to assure you that I've set up a team. There are in general five of these teams composed of employees of three institutions: the Agricultural Market Agency, the restructuring and modernisation agencies, the Agricultural Property Agency and the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture. Among these five teams is also a team dealing with IT systems. It's complicated matter. That's where they work, practically speaking, only computer scientists. They ensure that during the launch of the National Agricultural Support Centre, these systems should work and there should be no problems in the service of farmers and the Polish countryside. That's where the sentence came from... As far as costs are concerned, the expected costs for this year amount to about PLN 11 million to put it all together. There was also a statement from a representative of the Civic Platform club that if the employees were satisfied, it would be a good working atmosphere. I would add that, in addition to satisfied workers, farmers should be satisfied, i.e. direct beneficiaries, Minister. Then there will be genuinely a good atmosphere and at work, and in the Polish village. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u159	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur shall not speak. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre and on the draft rules which will be adopted after these projects have been carried out in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The projects introduced by the National Agricultural Support Centre will compensate for the competences of the two agencies currently operating: the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency. My support for the idea of this change has not changed. I believe that this is a step in the right direction. Thanks to it, the current administrative structures will be simplified and needlessly increased directorial positions removed, which will have a positive impact on the budget. I also count on what I stressed in the previous position that the work of the appointed representative responsible for any activities related to the KOWR process will be carried out in accordance with and in cooperation with all organisations wishing to participate in this process and having appropriate competence in this respect. Despite my support for these projects, I have to agree with the applicants on some of the amendments tabled and rejected in committee work. I do not consider it appropriate to leave the newly established National Agricultural Support Centre to issue its own bonds or to establish mortgages on the property belonging to the national real estate centre. I am not convinced that these provisions are a remnant of the debt restructuring of farmers in 1996 left in case of emergency and that this is an opportunity under the full control of the Ministry for Rural Development. I agree that these records may be a gateway to creative accounting, which we have already been able to observe and what we should avoid. In view of these reservations, near Free and Solidarnia, he will vote in favour of the proposed projects with the relevant amendments tabled by Mr Sachaika and Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u161	As amendments to both projects were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct these projects to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government draft law amending the Law Rules introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act (prints No 1050 and 1243). I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you the report of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government draft law amending the Law Rules on Local Government and the Local Government Act, print No. 1050. At its 33rd meeting, the Sejm addressed this proposal to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. After considering the draft law, the Commission asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law. Together with this, the committee shall present the applicants' requests as minority proposals. There are four such minority proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting of the committee, the Secretary of State Jarosław Zieliński presented very well the elements of the project, which is primarily intended to simplify the procedures for the appointment of members of the National Committee on Grace. The Commission was set up as an appeal body against the decisions of the voivodships on the communalisation of property. Its members shall be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The proposal proposes to amend and delegate the powers to appoint the members of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. The amendment by the PO and the Modern Members proposing to leave this competence to the Prime Minister was not supported - there were 9 Members with 10 against it. Nor were they supported by the amendment concerning one of the requirements of the committee members, i.e. the guarantees of proper implementation of the tasks of the committee. One provided for the deletion of this provision, the second for a new sound. Four amendments have just been tabled as minority proposals. At the same time, the Commission adopted eight amendments tabled by the Legislative Office, which were legislative and precise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u163	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Wozniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u164	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present a position on the Law amending the Law Rules introducing the Law on Local Government and the Act on Local Employees, print No. 1050, and the report of the committee, print No. 1243. The aim of the proposed amendment of the law is among others. adaptation of Article. 18 to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 and, in the second part, to simplify the procedures for the appointment of members of the National Court of Justice. Both the Act and the Public Regulation of 7 May 1997 entered into force before the date of entry into force of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997. These provisions entered into force on 17 October 1997. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3th Act empowers the President of the Council of Ministers only to appoint the chairman and the members of the committee and to determine the procedure for its action. However, these provisions have not been adapted, as the rapporteur here said, to the requirements of the Article. 92. 1st Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The provision does not indicate the appropriate form of legislation, namely the regulation, and does not contain guidelines for authorising the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to determine the remuneration of the chairman and members of the committee for participating in its work. Therefore, the proposed amendment to this amendment aims to bring the rules into line with the rules in force. As a result of the Parliament's work, the problematic issues which so far raised doubts regarding the functioning of the National Courts have been regulated by law. In view of the need to adapt the law to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and simplify the procedure for appointing members of the National Court of Justice as Parliamentary Club, we request that this law be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u165	Thank you, sir. And Mr Jack Protas of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, please take the floor. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Then it is Mr Bartosz Józwiak. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Let's hope so. This is Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u166	I think Mrs Stępień will not be here, I will be alone. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Law Rules introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act. I would like to say that the main purpose of the law was to bring the regulations into line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland by moving issues related to the mode of action of the National Committee on Public Rights and appointing its members to the level of the law. And this purpose has been fulfilled in this law, and therefore the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of this law. Nevertheless, in a few words, I would like to refer to the procedure for examining this law during a committee meeting. I am surprised that in a situation where we have a non-controversial law, as to its assumptions, full compatibility, you are not open to making certain elements, certain amendments which, in my opinion, would improve or improve the wording of this document. As you know, the National Court is dealing with appeals against the decision of the voivode, and it is therefore incomprehensible to us why the members of the National Court Board appoint only the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and not the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister should be appointed at the request of the competent Minister for Administration. That would be rational, because the same level would be maintained as in the case of voivodships, but also members of the local review colleges. The second amendment, which the rapporteur has already said in part, concerns the fact that you state the necessity that a member of the committee must guarantee the proper implementation of the tasks of the committee. What I'm saying is that we have a legal object here, only a legal object to consider. Loyalty here isn't important. There's a lot of expertise here. And only expertise should be taken into account. Unfortunately, you and this element have rejected. I ignore the fact that this causes inconsistencies in other documents, similar, e.g. the members of the self-government appeal college must demonstrate that they have no criminal record. In this case, he may be punished, but he must be loyal. And I think you should think about it. There are minority requests, we will decide during the voting block About this. I think that there is also an opportunity here to make these amendments, so that, as I said, this law will still be improved. Finally, one more point which was also discussed during the committee meeting. It concerns a budget of less than 150 000 appropriations. PLN per year with the possibility to reduce by 50%. I am aware that this is due to the power of another law and it is difficult to implement it here, although I would like to say very clearly: this will be an obstacle to the most important issue, because today the most important issue beyond the compatibility of the appointment of members is to speed up the process of examining these decisions. At least in my opinion, in the perspective of a year or two, there should be increased resources so that the process can be accelerated so that there is no expectation, waiting for a year, 1.5 years or 2 years, as it is today, for a decision. For everyone... I have specific cases, I have specific cases from local government officials who do not state when the appeal was filed and when the decision was made. This is a very important element for self-government. You know very well that the length of the procedure is the biggest problem. If there's any chance to do something about it, it has to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u167	Thank you, sir. And Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, please take the floor. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]] Then we hear that Mr Jacek Protas is here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform presents the position of our club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Law Rules introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act. We read in the explanatory memorandum that the task of introducing this solution is to simplify the procedure for appointing members of the envoy committee, as well as to adapt the Act to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of April 1997. It is true that these provisions were made before the new constitution was adopted, so some provisions of this law need to be adapted to this overarching act. There's our acceptance about that. Besides, as early as 2015 the government of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz prepared a similar bill. So the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will support this project, although we are calling for our minority proposals to be accepted, the amendments that we tabled when we discussed this project in committee. Namely, we believe that the members of the committee should appoint and dismiss the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic at the request of the Minister responsible for. public administration. This argument follows that this amendment results from the fact that the voivodships are directly subject to the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. public administration, so appeals against their decisions should be considered by a higher authority, namely the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. We are also in doubt about the fact that a committee member should guarantee the proper implementation of the committee's tasks. This is a vague, unclear statement, which we think should be either deleted or clarified. In conclusion, once again, I ask the applicants to support our minority proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u169	Thank you. Mr Rometki, on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome. So he didn't make it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u170	Traffic on the road. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the report of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government draft law amending the Law Rules introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act. The purpose of the Act is to ensure compliance of the articles. 18 Provisions introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act of Art. 92. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This provision concerns the National Court of Justice. This law entered into force before the date of entry into force of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Consequently, that provision is incompatible with the principle that the regulations are issued by the bodies indicated in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland on the basis of the detailed authorisation provided for in the Act and for the purpose of its implementation. Authorisation provided for in Article. 18 does not comply with the requirements of the Constitution: does not indicate the appropriate form of legislation nor does it contain guidelines for authorising the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to determine the remuneration of the chairman and the members of the committee for participating in its work. This project eliminates the identified non-compliances and introduces new solutions, some of which need to be recalled here. The current Regulation lists all its members by name. In line with the new solution, there will be only a number of members in the Regulation, which will eliminate the current need for legislative amendments for any personal change. To date, the chairman and members of the committee have been appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Now, the powers to appoint members will lie solely in the hands of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. public administration. In addition, the project sets out requirements for potential candidates. These include legal education, at least a 5-year period of employment in the public finance sector, etc., although it seems reasonable to change the content of the article. Point 2 of Article 1 Article 18a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 point 4 from the very discretionary and unclear draft in defining the condition: gives the guarantee of proper implementation of the tasks of the committee for the condition proposed in the 3rd minority proposal: it was not convicted by a final judgment for intentional crimes, which seems to be on the spot here. The project further sets out the modalities for financing the National Court of Justice, introduces a legislative delegation to issue a regulation by the Minister responsible for Justice. public administration on the level of remuneration of members of the board of directors - the possibility of reducing remuneration in certain cases. Four minority proposals were submitted to the project, which, as amendments tabled at the committee meeting, did not receive approval from the committee, and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 26 January 2017, asks the Sejm to adopt this law without amendment. In conclusion, I would like to say that Kukiz15 will vote in favour of the 3rd minority proposal and the entire draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u171	Thank you, sir. Since only one Member has signed up for the vote, please, Mrs Iwona Michalek. Two minutes to the question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the new Regulations implementing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act is to simplify the appointment of the members of the committee. I am interested in the composition of the committee, namely, so far it has been a 5-person committee, now it will be a 6-person committee. I wanted to know what this change would do. I would also like to ask you about the procedure: In what mode and who will appeal the members of the committee? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u173	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Sebastian Chwałk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I'm gonna try to answer that question right away. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration is appointed and dismissed. The only reason the 5-person squad actually at the moment was because one person had resigned and it took a regulation to sanction it. There should be two, three-person warehouses, which, of course, accelerates the process. At the moment, there's one full squad, and in the meantime, the other person has resigned, which makes there's only four people. Unfortunately, the complexity of the cases dealt with by the committees, the heavy workload and the really not excessive pay for this work make not everyone willing to sacrifice so much. This is a responsible job, which is why it seems to me that this solution proposed by us will simply improve this procedure and we will not have to involve the whole circulation, so to speak, the legislative and government procedure, in order to make these changes on an ongoing basis. I therefore ask that this draft be adopted in the version prepared by the committee. Minority proposals, if of course they can be discussed as to their validity, seem unnecessary at this stage. Restoring the President of the Council of Ministers as if once again to appoint the President of the Council of Ministers makes this procedure complicated. As far as criminality is concerned, this is where I can calm down. First of all, I don't think it'd even come to anyone's mind to call a person who's been punished as part of such a body. In addition, there is a requirement to have at least 5 years of employment in public finance units. From the same point of view, this person cannot be punished because he cannot be allowed to stay there. Nevertheless, I assure you: it will certainly not come to anyone's mind, and now, and - I suspect - in the future, to complicate your life by calling to such an important body a person punished. Therefore, I ask that you accept without taking into account the minority's proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u175	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u176	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law Rules introducing the law on local government and the law on local staff, prints no. 1050 and 1243. The National Court of Justice is an appeal body against the decisions of the voivodships on the communalisation of property. It is true that changes in the functioning of the committee are needed, and it is clear from the fact that numerous complaints to the Ombudsman about the length of proceedings are made, but improving the functioning of the committee must not only mean changes in staff. Statistics deserve attention: in 2015 it received 290 cases and 349 cases by the end of August 2016. The staff shortages are also a fact, since 2010, the committee has only ruled in one, three-member membership, that is far too little and since 2015 there has been one vacancy. However, there is a fundamental difference between the improvement of the institution concerned and the replacement of its composition. The law that we are currently pursuing is a reference to numerous laws in the current term of office. Miesiewicze i spółka. Which is already an amendment to the law, where we read in the explanatory memorandum: the aim of the proposed amendment is to simplify the procedure for appointing... In this case, members of the National Court of Justice. It is possible to use the wording "Misiewicza l, 2, 3 and so endlessly." Meritum of the amendment shall be worded as follows: the chairman and the members of the committee shall carry out their duties until the chairman and the members of the committee have been appointed on the basis of the amended law. I am convinced that these changes will take place when the Act enters into force. The need to change the Ministry explains the requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the same constitution, which the politicians of the governing party break with seven laws on the Court, the same constitution, according to which you rejected the amendments prohibiting the use of the Territorial Defence Army against Poles, the same constitution, under which you restrict the possibility of organizing public gatherings. You propose that the appointment and dismissal of the chairman and the members of the committee be transferred to the authority of the minister responsible for public administration. We have an interesting situation from a legal point of view, that is, by virtue of the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The law was set up by a committee as an appeal body against the decision of the voivodships on the communalisation of property. The governor shall be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister responsible for public administration. The Minister will decide on the issuing authority and the appeal body - a full democratic state machine. What else do we have in the bill? We've got a raise for our own, a 20% raise. salaries. The annual salary for committee members will be almost 150 000. zł - a large amount, and we have additional diets and other charges. In conclusion, the club of the Polish People's Party cannot support this amendment. Modifications are needed in order to improve the functioning of committees which are not present in this project, but only staff changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u177	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on the monitoring system for road freight transport (prints 1244 and 1269). I ask Mrs Maria Zuba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, which was sitting yesterday at the joint meeting, to submit a report on the draft law on the monitoring system for road freight transport submitted to the High House in print No 1244. It's a government project. Its rules are designed to protect legitimate trade in goods such as goods. motor fuels and derivatives including biodiesel, fuel additives, lubricating oils, vegetable oils to be used as additives for motor fuels. This law also applies to goods such as antifreezes based on ethyl alcohol, thinners and solvents, partially and completely contaminated ethyl alcohol and tobacco droughts. So far, the largest grey zone and most tax irregularities have been identified in trade in these goods. In a report prepared in 2015 to the European Commission, the then government of the Civic Platform and PSL stated that the tax gap in this tax, in VAT, increased to 27%. The tax irregularities that occurred over the years consisted in the levying and non-payment of taxes on goods and services and the reduction of excise duties. In the liquid fuel market, VAT and excise reduction amounted to PLN 6033 million in 2015, and in 2014 these reductions amounted to PLN 2085 million. This shows how fast these abnormalities grew. The effect of this practice over the years is not only to reduce tax revenue to the State budget, but also to violate the principle of fair competition and to burden honest taxpayers. It should be pointed out that the most common illicit trade in goods concerns trade in goods of unknown origin. On many occasions, I paid attention to the functioning on the Polish market of an even primitive system for the disinfection of ethyl alcohol and disregarding the hygiene rules for placing it on the market. All the comments and the analyses that were made were really untraceable in the laws. The application of the scheme continued, effectively reducing revenue in the budget and affecting the balance of fair market players and corruption. The government project we are debating today introduces regulations that seal the tax system and introduces a system for monitoring and controlling the carriage of goods by road, which will eliminate fraud of undue returns only on the basis of falsified invoices. The project also introduces the obligation to report goods to the register, with this register being kept in the electronic system and the administrator of this system being the head of the National Tax Administration. The obligation to report sensitive goods to the register shall be imposed on consignors and consignees and on carriers supplying goods to the country and carrying goods in transit through our country. This element of the details introduced has led to a discussion during the committee's work, as it was not clear to all Members why carriers would also be included in this register. After clarification by the Minister, the provisions proposed in this regard by the Government were maintained. At the same time, failing to register or incorrectly comply with it will result in a penalty of money or a fine. I would like to point out that, in order to determine the possibility for the Minister of Finance to issue a regulation, the Minister, who, as a result of market analysis and monitoring, finds that there are negative trends around other goods, today not included as sensitive goods, will be able, at the request of the carrier or supplier, to consider whether the recipient may waive or reduce the penalty imposed. The system proposed by the Act is therefore a flexible system. At the same time, it creates the possibility for the competent minister to react quickly to what is happening on the market and to catch new goods which are affected by irregularities. I will mention that when we introduced the reverse VAT system into scrap metal, then illegal sales of telephones appeared very quickly on the market. The market is very mobile, which is why this tool in the Minister's hands is a very important tool. I think it will be used effectively. The provisions of the Act define precisely the obligations and deadlines of the parties involved in the trading venue for sensitive goods. High Izbo! Finally, I want to return briefly to the anticipated penalties. All participants in the supply of sensitive goods were subject to sanctions. The proposed system of penalties is transparent and aims at preventive action. Hence the penalties in relation to the applicable ones are high. The project offers the possibility of imposing a fine of up to 46%, i.e. twice the current VAT rate. For example, for those quantities which have not been declared, i.e. the difference between the quantity of goods declared and actually transported, the authorities will be able to levy 46 per cent tax and at the same time the penalty must not be less than 20 000. zł. This has also triggered discussion in committees, but Members have agreed that this system must be a system that strongly warns that it will not pay to conduct criminal proceedings. However, the law gives the possibility to appeal against the penalty imposed and gives the determining authority the opportunity to verify the amount of the penalty imposed. For example, when the carrier fails to complete the application for new goods, it is also expected that 5 000 will be punished. zł. The legislator has also defined a catalogue of entities exempt from the obligations under the Act. High Izbo! The Act shall enter into force on 1 March 2017. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, I ask the High Chamber to adopt a law on the system for monitoring the carriage of goods by road in the version submitted in the report of both committees in print No 1269. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u179	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are leaning on the government bill on the road freight monitoring system, No. 1244 and No. 1269. European experience shows that monitoring leads to a clear reduction in the grey and black zone and consequently to an increase in tax revenues. Procedures for reducing the large scale of illegal activities should be assessed positively. This will counter unfair competition. In principle, control measures are in the interest of honest business operators who are unable to compete with unfair competition. The analysis of the activities of economic operators clearly shows the scale of the risks and irregularities, which clearly indicates the need to focus the activities of tax authorities in this area. The potential risk areas included, among others, have been defined. the marketing of liquid fuels, contaminated alcohol and tobacco drought and other fuels. However, the possibility of extending the catalogue by means of implementing acts to the law has been left. It is not without significance that the contested law constitutes in part a complementary regulation to the so-called. the fuel package adopted by the Act of 7 July 2016 amending the Act on value added tax and certain other laws or energy package. At the same time, regulation constitutes a subsidiary law for the entire tax system. The 2015 report prepared for the European Commission clearly states that the tax gap in the tax on goods and services has increased to 27% in Poland. It is clearly noted that Poland is struggling with the collection of tax on goods and services, which should be in line with the pace of economic development. The proposed regulation aims to address these negative trends identified in the report. The Act aims, in its assumptions, at reducing the level of State revenues from the tax on goods and services and excise duties; it also aims to increase the effectiveness of controls in areas where there is a significant risk of breach of the rules in force. For these reasons, for example, the law deserves further proceding and support. Many doubts and controversy of the environments concerned have been clarified in the work of the Joint Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice are invariably in the position to fight against the grey and black zone and the pathologies in economic life and the tax collection system. In response to the voices of the groups concerned, the president of the parliamentary club authorised me to submit an amendment to the government bill. This amendment is basically about deleting the article. 38 and the new wording of the article. 40. The main point is that, taking into account the position of entrepreneurs, the amendment extends the period during which no fines and fines will be imposed until 1 May 2017, as requested by the environments concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u181	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Żmijan. [[He's on his way to the meeting.]] [[I'm here, I'm here.]] He's here, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u182	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm a little suffocated because I'm running because we have a lot of acceleration in terms of order. On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the report on the work of the Joint Committee on Public Finance and the Infrastructure Committee on the Government's draft law on the road freight monitoring system, Seym No 1244. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The legal provisions contained in the draft law are intended to monitor and register the carriage of goods considered to be sensitive, subject to tax on goods and services and excise duties. In particular, it is about motor fuels and derivatives, including biodiesel, fuel additives, lubricating oils, vegetable oils, which can be used as additives for motor fuels, antifreezes based on ethyl alcohol, thinners, solvents, partially or completely contaminated ethyl alcohol and tobacco droughts. The catalogue of goods covered by the Act is not closed, it may be extended by an implementing act in the future. In general, the Act aims to facilitate the fight against the grey zone and reduce the reduction of revenue from goods and services tax and excise duties to the State budget for the marketing of these goods. High Izbo! During the first reading of the bill, the participants pointed out - without, of course, questioning the appropriateness of preparing new legal solutions aimed at minimising illegal and non-taxated trade in goods identified as sensitive - and opposed the way in which the proposed regulations were prepared and dealt with. In particular, attention was paid - we, Members, but also to the social side at the meeting - to the fact that the public consultation phase was completely overlooked at the level of government work. The broad justification of the government's draft law is, yes, the assessment of the effects of these regulations, very unilaterally, of course, to estimate the revenue to the state budget, the costs associated with the implementation on the part of state institutions, i.e. the National Tax Administration, but not a word in the justification for the financial, social and economic costs of those affected by it, and this applies to more than 100,000. economic operators, i.e. suppliers, customers, in particular carriers, transport companies and drivers. These companies, already operating on a very competitive, difficult European market, will be subject to additional costs. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance did not in any way comment here on whether they provided any compensation, any influence to support these companies. Representatives of opposition clubs particularly stressed the short deadline for the entry into force of this law, which did not allow companies to prepare for the implementation of these provisions. We proposed either an amendment, a change of the time limits contained in the article. 38 concerning the extension of the date of entry into force of these provisions, or of the last article at all, i.e. the entry into force of the entire law. Unfortunately, all proposals from both Members and from the social side were in vain; they were simply not taken into account. It's hard to even talk about wanting to debate. Of course, the request to set up an emergency subcommittee for a thorough analysis and development of a rational, good project, because we all see the need for such regulation beyond political divisions, and unfortunately, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He didn't find recognition. The position of my club will depend on this... Since we have tabled amendments that will be in the rank of a minority proposal, depending on how the governing coalition will deal with this, we will establish our final position. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u183	Thank you, Mr President, and I would like to ask the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law on the road freight monitoring system following the presentation of the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, these are prints 1244 and 1269. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law presented to the High House by the government concerns a specific matter which has not yet been applied in our country. The subject of the project is, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, a system for monitoring the carriage of goods by road, which is to be another tool for combating unfair operators trafficking in liquid fuels, purely contaminated alcohol and tobacco drought, without paying the tax due to the State budget, for extortion of unpaid taxes, as well as for trading without applying the conditions laid down by law. Of course, the implementation of further tools to combat crime, tools to eradicate the shadow economy is the right approach. It's right, because the strong fight against criminals is expected by citizens and companies. Taxes should be paid by all who are obliged to do so. Another thing is that our taxes are quite high, which limits development opportunities, and our country can organize the same money better, but this is obviously a topic for a separate discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, the decisive fight against tax criminals is a way of reducing the tax gap, which, according to analyses for the European Commission, may reach up to 27%, but it is also an element of creating a new level playing field for all participants in the market. These are also modern priorities. It is we who point out to the government at every step that there can be no saints on the market, cannot be privileged, and all should be subject to the same conditions. Exactly, fighting criminals is a legitimate demand, but this bill is mainly about fighting companies, with entrepreneurs who conduct their business honestly, who pay taxes fairly. It is the imposition of new bureaucratic obligations, which according to many specialists will not allow as optimistic an increase in influence as it is enshrined in the explanatory memorandum of the law. They will only increase burdens, costs for entrepreneurs, which will clearly translate into higher prices for their services. Already honest entrepreneurs, who account for almost 100% This group spends an awful lot of time performing bureaucratic duties towards the state. Now the PiS wants to add another one. In addition, the law contains the so-called rule. a form sheet which will enable the Finance Minister to introduce additional groups of goods by Regulation at any time, which will need to be covered by transport monitoring, whereas the imposition of such serious obligations and the expansion of groups of goods should only take place by law. I will tell the Minister right away: Do not charm the public with such a wording that the regulation is like a fast legislative process. Well, in the last year, there are dozens of laws that have been adopted at a faster pace than most regulations... [[What if you block the platform?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...so all the more so in such a serious matter, Mr President, the government should respect the fundamental principles of burdening citizens with responsibilities and costs. It is also completely incomprehensible to impose new obligations on transport companies and drivers. The law proves that the PiS government does not understand the specifics of the transport sector. I have the impression that these regulations are designed for the industry, which was operating 10 and 15 years ago, but today it is a modern industry, rapidly rotating, where decisions are made in the course of operations, where transhipments are very often carried out, and within 24 hours a few times the goods can be reloaded. Thus, these rules will undoubtedly slow down the development of the industry and prevent Europe's markets from rapidly gaining. In addition, the date of entry into force of this law does not allow entrepreneurs to prepare and adapt to the correct implementation of its provisions. So we think that there are some minimum changes in this project that need to be made to avoid compromising citizens. So, ladies and gentlemen, we will be presenting five amendments. Firstly, we believe that this bill must be removed from the bill, which allows the Minister to impose new obligations at any time in the form of a regulation. Of course, we believe that the penalties provided for in this law are too high, so also, as far as part of them are concerned, we are here to propose that they be modified. We're gonna want to delete the record that makes it possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] punishing Polish companies for combinations of companies from abroad. And I also think that the most important thing in this whole law is to postpone the validity of the rules - from 1 July 2017. And I would very much like to ask the Minister to respond at least to the transfer of legislation on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u185	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law, discussed by the rapporteur, contained in prints 1244 and 1269, and the proposed regulations aimed at sealing the tax system, ensuring the proper, sound payment and clearing of businesses bound by the legal tax burden, is a very important element not only in the implementation of government policies, but also in the programme of ensuring and causing appropriate, once, social feelings as regards equal treatment or equal treatment of taxpayers, is undoubtedly also intended to ensure an impact on the budget of certain amounts which have been identified in this draft and justification also at the level of PLN 6.5 billion. Good. This is the goal and we as the Polish People's Party with this goal, with practical assumptions, can say it, we agree. We agree on the preparation of records that will properly regulate this area of trade for those goods that are named or identified as sensitive. They have been indicated, mentioned, discussed, so you will allow the marshal that I will no longer repeat all these issues. In our view, both the solutions and the objectives and the system have been clearly and clearly defined in the draft. Entities exempted from their obligations under the Act were also identified. There is also talk of monitoring the entire process. The obligations of the participants in this process have been specified in detail, an important issue has been identified, the reference number has been identified and the entities who will have access to the data have been identified. It also specified how the control of the goods would be carried out and, what I think is normal, the penalties for non-compliance with the adopted provisions of the decision. Nevertheless, Minister, there is such a suggestion and request. Do all these elements function and will these records really support our entrepreneurs, these entities in the state in which they are, as fragmented as they are? Should not, even using these amendments or suggestions from the opposition, be the case at the next committee meeting, because everything points out that it will, for example, refer to them on the question of how companies' performance of these obligations will increase costs? Will companies be able to prepare within this short period of time for the introduction of whether the tax equipment and offices will also be able to undertake these tasks? Or maybe we could think about it - I suggest - in some way to separate penalties from the value of trading, so that these small businesses are not treated in parallel or unambiguously with those that we are practically referring to and which, we can guess, have something on their conscience when it comes to the reduction and settlement of VAT. Let's see if we can do more work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] create records so that it can be our joint project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u187	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Sylwester Khrushch, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u188	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the government draft law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road. The project provides for the monitoring of road transport of liquid fuels, contaminated alcohol and tobacco drought, i.e. goods often subject to irregularities in the settlement of VAT and excise duties, resulting in a significant reduction in the tax and our budget. The carriage of these goods is to be recorded and electronically supervised by satellite systems. The proposed regulations are intended to seal the tax system and assist in the disclosure of tax fraud and avoidance traders, while ensuring the protection of reliable taxpayers, all those carriers and traders who comply with the law in Poland. As we hear, the law will also reduce unfair competition in the market. The document is to be another tool to fight against dishonest companies and to supplement the so-called regulation. the fuel package which entered into force in August 2016 and is intended to prevent VAT fraud in intra-Community trade in liquid fuels. The government also states that new solutions will increase the revenue from VAT and excise duties. Between 2017 and 2026 the state budget is expected to receive a huge amount, about PLN 6.5 billion, due to VAT and excise duties. Surely none of us question the need to seal the VAT system. However, in conversations with the industry you can sense dissatisfaction with some of the provisions of the Act. The introduction of specific changes to existing legislation, and this without vacathio legis, will most likely result in transport companies stopping for an indefinite period of time to carry oil due to their safety. There's a lot of small businesses like that. These companies also send their goods to their customers by couriers and have many international agreements signed, they must co-create a whole network of offices in various capitals in Europe. As a rule there are also very many small companies, which this development, this transport, these regulations in such a short time introduced in this law can really choke or even paralyze. Well? We would like to stress that such a short time of implementation of this very beneficial and necessary act for us can cause paralysis not only of transporters, transport companies and companies that trade dried or fuel, but also, we have such signals, Customs. We are not sure that it is prepared for this project, whether it is after tenders for various devices, cars or customs officers are prepared, the entire staff back office to serve this bill. Therefore, as the Kukiz Posel Club15, we will take a firm part in the work of the committee and we will convince the government side, however, that this period of implementation of the law is a little longer, so that we do not punish immediately, after a month, carriers and people who support this business, help the industry adapt. The broad industries involved in this trade also know that this is a necessity. They'll adapt, but we need more time for that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u189	Thank you, sir. Nine Members joined the questions. [[Can I have another one, Marshal?]] The Member is still on the line. [[Two minutes?]] Yes, my fellow Member. [[I'm glad.]] Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the discussion of the government draft law, there were voices that monitoring should focus only on domestic transactions that do not give rise to fraud and control does not focus on cross-border transactions. It is worth answering the question whether the law provides for the introduction of a system allowing adequate monitoring of the acquisition of intra-Community goods, or only on the national system, Minister. However, I still need to say a few words to Mr Szmijan, Mr Suchon and Mr Khrushch. Gentlemen, you have not listened very carefully to my speech on behalf of the club, because on behalf of the club I have tabled amendments which assume the deletion of the article. 38, and Article 38 40 provide for an extension of the period of non-punishment until 1 May. So that these allegations against the ruling party, the Law and Justice Club, that we do not listen to these demands, are not possible. [[I was referring to the report, honourable Member.]] [[To the parliamentary club.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u191	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A government project on the road freight monitoring system has a good idea - the fight against tax irregularities, on which all citizens lose. However, I would like to draw attention to some potential inaccuracies or threats. First: Why the Law provides for so-called. Forks of driver's penalties? According to which criteria sometimes the driver will receive a fine of 5 000. PLN and sometimes 7.5 thousand.? Second: Why should the driver be liable for irregularities that depend on his employer? Third: Why did the list of goods subject to transport supervision change during the government legislative process? Please state the exact reasons for any change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u193	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u194	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, it is important to fight tax fraud, but this fight on Polish roads should not follow and sneak the surveillance of citizens. I would like to ask you about an amendment which was prepared by the Ministry of Finance, which will enable the police and special services to collect a lot of information on drivers travelling on national roads and motorways. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this amendment raised many doubts, including. that a wide range of data collected can actually reconcile the privacy of citizens. Because it was where you had to give a name, a name, a PESEL, a NIP, a photo of the vehicle and the driver or even the address of the residence. Secondly, these data could be collected without the consent and knowledge of the person driving the vehicle. And thirdly, which is very questionable, these data would be stored and could be stored indefinitely. I would like to point out that the dry thread on this amendment has not been left by the General Data Protection Officer, who pointed out that such a wide range of collected data is rather marked by the total system, i.e. that it accords citizens' right to privacy. Of course, attention should be paid to the specific cases involved in an attempt to extort taxes, and in such exceptional situations such action should be carried out. On the other hand, the introduction of this amendment will practically make it possible to check which way average Kowalski's cars are moving, while the project should concern specific entities, and unfortunately the Ministry of Finance in this amendment wants to introduce regulations that will strike practically all citizens moving on motorways and national roads. I would therefore like to ask: is this amendment, which is a bad proposal that interferes with the privacy of citizens, [[♪ The bell ♪]] has been withdrawn by the State and by the Ministry, will it be introduced at the next stage of the process? 'Cause I hope surveillance doesn't win, 'cause it's crucial to fight tax criminals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u195	Thank you. And I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! First reading of this project - yesterday afternoon. Yesterday afternoon - for the market that we regulate, 150.200 thousand. persons who will be obliged to apply this project. As a general rule, as regards the tasks that it regulates, namely tax avoidance, consent. You create a little country, because somehow these proceeds from the thinning, the fight against the grey zone and what you define in the 2016 budget, you can see little. The Minister said it would be okay. 1 billion PLN per year, with which we cannot agree or wrongly in this bill at the very beginning... What's my grudge against the government? That the government prepared a sloppy project, because firstly, the prepared project of 25 January 2017, and there is not all the regulation related to the amendment of the National Tax Administration Act. That's one thing. Secondly, in this respect, one of the Vice-Ministers at the Ministry of Finance says that we will fight the losses, and the other we will reform the tax administration and fire customs officers. So who's gonna be? So who's gonna work if there's no employees in this area? And the deadline for implementing the bill. We have tabled such an amendment and this is a minority request to extend this deadline. You didn't want to talk in the subcommittee as rulers, Mr PiS Members, in order to speak honestly and in substance here. Can't a subsidy formula for this surveillance be introduced [[♪ The bell ♪]] You mean like the fiscal cash register? You should have thought of that philosophy. And the reverse VAT rule? The previous government introduced, starting with the reverse VAT into scrap metal and the proper procedure. Could the current government have referred to the phones before this procedure? Of course. I wish that the issues of Poles should be discussed wisely. [[Voice from the hall: German embassy.]] This project concerns almost 200,000. persons. A few hours yesterday, a few minutes today, and we do not know the PiS amendments, because, as you say, Mr Stawiarski, there is no automation that shows up. [[I talked it over from the podium.]] We therefore refer to the report. We refer to the report. He had a different task, he referred to the report, he referred to the report and not to the debate. This is not a debate about your position. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] He came to the meeting as soon as he could. Minister, we are calling for this deadline and for the support of the minority's request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u197	Mrs Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Don't disturb me, sir.]] [[I'm just starting to get in the way.]] I'm gonna ask you, why so fast and so fast? The modern has applied for an extension of the deadline by at least 1 July, which will allow for the introduction of thoughtful solutions and guarantee them. Please pay attention, first of all, you want March 1st, today is February 8th. On March 1st, you want to bring it in. Now here's the question: [[Maya.]] Excuse me, ma'am. And now the question is: staff training, IT infrastructure, preparation of everything together - I'm afraid you are not able to prepare it technically in such a short time reliably. That's the first line. Really, consider the deadline. The second issue is related to sellers, buyers and participants, i.e. Polish entrepreneurs who provide transport services, because they will unfortunately be punished. And here it would be worthwhile for you to pay attention to the interests of Polish entrepreneurs, Polish transport order recipients, so that it does not hit them, because they do not always have the blame on their hands. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u199	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns Art. 20 proposed law. It states that fines will be imposed on the sender, the recipient and the carrier, but it also states that the driver is to be fined by way of a mandate. Drivers say they don't know exactly what they're carrying. I wanted to ask if, in a situation like this, when the driver's just an employee of the carrier, he could, too, have to be punished? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u201	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, first question. Why are we processing this point so early? According to the schedule, it was supposed to be at 6:30, which is 2:15 p.m., which is over four hours earlier. I think that many Members have thus been deprived of the opportunity to speak in this debate. [[Because everyone knows everything.]] Yeah, but apparently new rules, new ways of making laws. [[They really know everything.]] Everybody knows everything, yeah. It's a substantive question. First of all, I have a question about the drivers. One of the reasons for punishment at all is guilt. If it's the fault, you can use the punishment. In the case of a driver, if the driver does not know what he is carrying, how can he be proved guilty of the fact that he is transporting the material in breach of the declaration or without that declaration if he does not know what he is carrying? He could get 5 and 7,000 for it. Zloty zloty. Question: "What is the relevance of such a provision?" Do you have any regard to the fact that in this way you are putting enormous costs at risk, just a group of tens of thousands of drivers who, during a proper road inspection, can see that they are carrying some material, in which the carrier, the customer or the customer is responsible for the fault of the carriage? That's one thing. The second point concerns the date of entry into force of the law, and more specifically the date of entry into force of the rules on the application of monetary penalties. Money penalties. Okay, as a rule, we have no doubt here, but there are many proposals here to postpone this deadline. It is good that the Law and Justice Club proposed that this deadline be postponed to at least 1 May, seeing that the problem is real, real and that it exists, but there are also proposals for this deadline to be postponed to 1 June or 1 July. We would ask you to consider this further, especially the Minister, and after consultation, if possible, to postpone this deadline from 1 May to 1 June and, if possible, to 1 July. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u203	Thank you, sir. Mr Sylvester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also wanted to answer here at the beginning of the rapporteur's colleague. Our amendments, our way of thinking, the Kukiz Club15, are not against... We're not a total opposition or one that wants to burn an idea. We bring our ideas to make things right, maybe discuss it. As my colleague Paweł Grabowski has just argued, please consider whether the deadline for 1 May, 1 June or 1 February would be better, I do not know, for the Polish budget, security. Of course, there is a measure somewhere that will be good for the industry and also for the Customs Service. That's where I want to ask you a question. I already talked about this at the committee meeting yesterday, but I would like to expand my question. I have, we have, we receive as a club a lot of conflicting signals from Customs, from employees, also when we read all the documents that come out of the ministry. We don't really know how many customs officers we really need to handle this bill today. Is this about $1.5,000? Or about 8,000.? Have they actually put in place tendering procedures to acquire equipment? Are they trained so that just on May 1st, June 1st or July 1st - I do not know for today - means in this suitable for Poland, for our budget, for security of time, everything works so that we do not have to put out unnecessary fires in the future, which we will start ourselves? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u205	Thank you. Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start by thanking you because I think it takes a lot of courage to finally face this growing problem. It's a pity that no one in the previous government has had the courage to face him in recent years. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The proposed law is intended to combat the expansion of the grey zone in the area of liquid fuel and alcohol trading and tobacco drought, which primarily results in the destruction of fair competition. Minister, please tell me: What has been the scale of the reduction in tax fraud and VAT for the last five years? Have the solutions proposed by the Act, which are based on existing solutions in countries such as Hungary, Portugal or Germany, produced expected results in these countries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u207	Mr Piotr Kaleta. Last one. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u208	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Maybe the opposition first. This rhetoric, which you present not only on this bill but also on others, is already fatal and overeating. I don't know, go to Madeira or ski in the Alps, [[Joy in the Chamber]] To freshen up somehow and to make this form of malice or any other... [[Make sure he doesn't insult you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u209	Yes, Madame, I just wanted to draw your attention. Go to the question, and...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u210	But I did not insult the Member. I was just suggesting. [[I don't ski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u211	I, sir, would like to move on to the question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u212	Sure, I'm on it. That's my suggestion for a start. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to issues as sensitive as the transport of such goods, where, as we know, there is so much abuse, you cannot use the argument that: "We are in favour of reducing theft, but... It's just that we have to get rid of it, and we just have to get used to the fact that there are other rules here in the discussion. The issue that Mr Modern spoke about when he presented the fact that the Law and Justice did not know about transport. A simple example, sir, one simple one. You were talking about the destination and return transport. If the tanker - I explain as simply as I can - is going to unload the load of fuel, will it take something back or not? Therefore, do not say that this is a question of transport, transport and return. But, marshal, the questions, because they, I think, are important here. These are typically technical questions. Minister, what is the interpretation of the Ministry if there must be a specific amount of fuel in the transport document for the delivery of fuel to the consignee, and this fuel in this particular quantity will not be poured into it? Is there a procedure that makes it easier here that we simply do not deliver the fuel in the quantity that has been foreseen? And the second point is: [[♪ The bell ♪]] 11-litre components. This is also the scope that is controversial.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u213	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u214	Why 11 liters and why not 10 liters? Why not more? Why is this limit so rigid here? Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u215	Thank you. [[Corrigendum.]] But to whom? It's not like you were mentioned by your name. [[The Member did not understand my speech.]] But the subject of the discussion... Please, sir, the questions are for the Minister and not for Mr Kaleta. [[But it's true, you guys are hard to understand.]] Thank you very much, sir. [[But you called me.]] He didn't address you directly. [[He turned to me. He was absolutely turning around.]] Please take the floor... Mr President, please take your seat. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these speeches and all the questions. Indeed, I have the impression that it is an important law that such measures are needed to limit the grey zone in order to reduce the important problem of Polish entrepreneurs, which is the operation of companies that illegally transport fuel, earn and often subsidise their functioning, using the grey zone or black zone, from illegal transport. In fact, this law, apart from tax revenues, which is worth remembering, primarily has such a dimension that it allows real free competition between carriers to return, between companies that sell fuel. Generally, Polish companies need fair competition, so that they win the best ones that are most trying to drive... sometimes it is the cost of time for the family, sometimes at the expense of their own money. It is worth remembering such a moral dimension of this law actually. That's why she's important. There were a number of questions here. Firstly, it is not true that the public consultation was omitted. This law has been shown at the stage of work within the Ministry of Finance since November. There have been many meetings with the fuel industry, including carriers. In fact, many comments have changed the shape of the bill, so that in the course of the work this law has actually changed. There is no such thing as Mr Romecki, Mr Khrushcz, I am sorry, there are no satellite transmitters, there is no such record in this act. In fact, what is worth remembering is not what Mr Marchewka said, that is, there is no regulation related to the base in the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, the motorway database, there are no provisions in this draft law. So it's really worth paying attention to what's in this bill. In fact, this bill also... Maybe there's one more thing I can tell you that's not in this bill. There's no punishing the drivers for what they carry. The only penalty that is foreseen for the driver, actually since 5,000. Up to 7.5 thousand. zł is what is written in the article. 32, i.e. if the driver finds that the goods have begun to be transported by the driver during the check: without a reference number, without the document replacing the declaration and confirmation of receipt of the document replacing the declaration or the document referred to in Article. 3 (1) (a) 5, i.e. the document confirming intra-stock transfers, the driver shall be subject to a fine of 5 000. Up to 7.5 thousand. zł. So the driver can be punished properly for the one thing, for not having a notification number, and whether he carries fuel, whether he carries cigarettes, whether he carries stuffed toys in such a quantity or not, that is not the essence of this activity. That's the only thing the driver has to take care of. The Act includes the obligation for the carrier, the owner, the coordinator of the driver's work, to give the driver the reference number and the driver for the absence of this number to be punished. When it comes to forks, the question was why it's 5,000. Up to 7.5 thousand. zł. In the Code of Offences - the designers referred to the Code of Offences - there is a condition for the income of persons who may be convicted under administrative penalty. So, in fact, the only reason we can apply here is because of the code of misdemeanor, which is, you can say, the wealth of the driver. We hope that this will be taken into account when deciding the extent of this administrative penalty just between 5 000. and 7.5,000. zł, because it is simply punished for lack of possession. Therefore, there is no situation, it can be said that there is a situation of the two. I very much thank Mr Stawiarski - and this is, I have the impression, the answer to Mrs Skowronska's doubts - that the Law and Justice Club, taking into account the discussion of yesterday's work by the committee, the opinions of the entrepreneurs, decided to introduce the amendment that Mr Stawiarski had tabled. The Ministry of Finance supports the idea to move the moment of the introduction of the article. 21, 28 and 32, which is also the punishment of drivers, from 1 April to 1 May. We are convinced that these two months from the time when the system will start to operate, i.e. from 1 March, 14 days after the announcement - this amendment also includes this change - will be sufficient for the system to be implemented and functioning efficiently. We do not have such experience that it is to some extent very severe for entrepreneurs. We are aware that, of course, there is, in some dimension, these 3 minutes that we determine in the context of a single notification consultation... [[Months.]] ...is a kind of duty, but we recognize that this value, which is to gain real competition between honest companies, so that these honest ones win in the free market, has such a dimension that it allows us to support the development of the Polish economy in the longer horizon, without, of course, the fiscal aspect. Mrs April asked about the effect, the importance of this package or this law. This package, this document, this bill is worth looking at in the context of the fuel package and it is worth remembering that thanks to the fuel package fuel sales in Poland increased by 30%. And it is not so with the 30% that Poles now use cars more often, they prefer to drive. [[They brought in a million cars.]] I think they've also brought in in previous years, but such increases in fuel sales... [[But a million. There was a record.]] It wasn't. We had a growing number of cars in Poland for years with a constant level of fuel sales, without an increase in fuel sales in the official, you can say, channel. And suddenly in 2016 fuel sales increased by as much as 30%. This has affected the rise in tax revenues, which of course has contributed to the increase in excise revenue. The increase in sales of cigarettes is estimated by the industry at around 7%. which translates, as we estimate, to an increase in excise revenue by PLN 700 million, or almost PLN 1 billion. There is an increase in excise duty estimated at around 8% from the sale of alcohol. The fuel package is the first step, this law allows you to take a second step to better monitor the transfer, transport of goods. At the same time, I would like to assure you that the Customs Service is prepared for this, in the justification given the number of 1500 customs officers who will act under this law will carry out the tasks set out in this Act. They have the right equipment - of course this equipment will be supplemented - they also have competence, they are prepared for this. Road inspections are already under way. During the 3 weeks of January, 12.5 thousand were carried out. Road inspections. The provisions of this law also allow to regulate the issue of convoys, which is extremely important. It is worth remembering that under the existing laws and regulations of this law, if there is a questionable situation about where goods are actually to go, whether they will travel from the German border to the Slovak border, Customs will have - under the provisions of this law, but of course it also has now, but it has been regulated in this law more specifically - the possibility of convoying goods, so that there is no such situation that someone pretends to carry goods through Poland to Lithuania, and in fact leaves fuel at some wholesale point somewhere in the middle of Poland. There were still a few questions about this - Mr Stawiarski asked whether the law allows us to monitor intra-Community delivery. Yes, this law includes the transfer, transport of goods between places in Poland and intra-Community acquisition. As to the question about the fork, this is from the Code of Offences. Plus, when it comes to the GIODO amendment, it's not there. First of all, it is worth remembering what this law is about. This bill concerns... This law includes goods that are monitored. These are excise goods. And, of course, there's a delegation in it. This is based on a regulation or another list of goods, other goods may be placed there. An in-depth analysis of the scale of criminal activities carried out in the framework of the work of the Ministry of Finance may lead to the need to place another item there or to qualify it for goods subject to this monitoring procedure. And this can be done in accordance with the Regulation. During the legislative work - and what we discussed in the committee - I will repeat - the original project, i.e. putting all the relevant goods there, was considered by the Government's Legislative Centre to be less correct from the point of view of standards and this was recognised. The recommendations of the RCL were to include excise products in the bill, and all others, such as rape oil, for which there are doubts justified by the scale of the embezzlement, put in the regulation. This regulation is being prepared at the Ministry of Finance. The draft regulation will be announced. The IT system, which is worth remembering, is already in place. This is the same system that is used by entities involved in the sale, trade in excise goods, i.e. the Electronic Services Platform of the Customs, Tax Service. In fact, it is true that what is really new is sanctions, that is, the obligation to register. This is the one thing, the obligation to register and, of course, sanctions that will be introduced only on May 1. We hope that by that time companies will learn to operate under this law and that it will indeed be quite clear and obvious that in fact this law allows honest companies to operate better within the free market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u217	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. I can't hear you objecting. I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act (Print No 1193). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the project. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The payment of alimony is an undisputed duty of those obliged to children or to adults, because it can act both ways, especially when this obligation arises from a judicial decision, among other things, but not only. Unfortunately, in Polish reality, this obligation is ignored. We have therefore analysed the data from which about 1 million children do not receive alimony. The effectiveness of chamber executions is at one of the lowest levels in the European Union, at 19,5% , when e.g. Denmark is 88%. In turn, the effectiveness of the maintenance fund, which should carry out these tasks, is only 6.04% to maintenance debtors. The economic information offices registered 276 thousand. maintenance debtors and their total debt amounts to almost PLN 9 billion. These data must shock and therefore our change is necessary. At the same time, when we look at solutions in other legal systems, there are no restrictions that still exist in the enforcement of money due to entitled persons, in particular children. So that the aim of the project is absolutely social and serves to realise the idea of social justice, but also the principle of an appropriate criminal response, to prosecute those who are obliged to pay alimony, and yet do not pay. Why aren't they paying? Due to the fact that we have two criteria in the bill that effectively enable the perpetrators of these crimes to escape into impunity. Namely, the first of these criteria concerns persistence - the criterion of persistence, which is interpreted differently in case law, interpreted differently by the courts and which results in a significant number of cases ending in remission. In recent years, 2010.2015, on average 21% cases ended by referring an indictment to the court, 24% of the proceedings were dismissed and 42% refused to initiate proceedings. There are situations where the perpetrator pays a symbolic amount, then refuses to pay, again after 2, after 3 months he returns to pay only a fraction of that amount and this prevents him from being effectively prosecuted. Therefore, we eliminate the mark in the form of persistent avoidance from maintenance obligations. Finally, we eliminate the second impact mark in the form of exposure of the person entitled to the inability to meet the basic needs of life. We introduce an objective criterion in the form of maintenance arrears equivalent to at least three periodic benefits or a delay in the outstanding benefit other than that of at least 3 months. At the same time, we leave the mark of evasion. This is necessary, so that, in colloquially speaking, people do not fall into the trap of the justice system who, for objective reasons, are unable to pay, e.g. they cannot take up employment despite their efforts or their health makes it impossible for them to take up work. That's why we leave this safety valve in the form of a sign that's going away. At the same time, greater responsibility will be placed on the part of those who, failing to comply with the maintenance obligation, expose the person entitled to the inability to meet the basic needs of life. In other words, what is the basic type today becomes a qualified type, and in this basic one we introduce an objective criterion. Two circumstances are aimed at extracting the perpetrator, excluding liability, namely a situation in which the perpetrator will eliminate the effects of his criminal behaviour and pay maintenance arrears no later than 30 days from the date of his first hearing - he will therefore be able to count on the failure to comply with the penalty and to waive the penalty. Therefore, these solutions will certainly contribute to the fuller maintenance security of eligible persons and the rules that are currently a paravan for criminals will become a viable means of prosecuting these crimes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u219	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I present my position on the revision of the Penal Code rules, to be precise, on the Article. 209 of the Penal Code, a draft published in Seym printing No 1193. Maybe I'll start by supplementing those data that, in recent years, starting in 2012, indicate an increase in the number of cases in which alimony is ordered. In divorce sentences, it's over 30,000, and in alimony cases, it's over 38,000. Annually, it has been reported since 65 thousand. to 59,000. enforcement maintenance applications to enforcement authorities. In 2015, enforcement proceedings were carried out in total in 611 087 enforcement cases. These numbers increase every year. Payment from the maintenance fund also increases every year. They are almost up to PLN 2 billion. Let me remind you that the fund pays for insolvent maintenance debtors. Therefore, this amendment was necessary, as the rules themselves, which were in force so far, were Article. 209 § 1 Penal Code... In 2015, 21,659 people were convicted. Of course, men prevail, but women are also convicted of about 300. Cases often end in imprisonment - 17 950, with suspension of 15,367, conditional redemptions - 1444. It all led to this amendment. It also refers to a constitutional principle expressed in Article. Article 71 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution, which speaks of special state aid to the family. Indeed, a change in the content of the article. 209, the introduction, in addition to this basic standard, of this crime and the reduction of liability to three periodic benefits or to the backlog in three months, the introduction of a qualified form, but also a more effective clarification and an increase in the number of persons who may submit an application for prosecution of this type of crime - so not only the victim, the social assistance authority, but also the authority that takes action against maintenance debtors, in the event of inefficiencies, ex officio, that form which is mentioned in Article. 209 § 5 and 6, i.e. not subject to penalty, if the perpetrator within 30 days of the first hearing pays outstanding maintenance or a waiver of the penalty, all of this should lead to more effective execution of outstanding maintenance. This is the basic message of this amendment. As you can see, so far the rules, and especially this element of persistence - once in the case law of the Supreme Court - in the guidelines of legal protection of the family it was 6 months - in practice they failed the exam. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] will support this project. We would like to ask for a further legislative run. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u221	Thank you, sir. Mr Wojciech Wilk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on the draft law amending the Penal Code Act, print No 1193. According to the government, because it is a government project, the assumptions of the bill are aimed at... are an attempt to solve the problem of maintenance debtors, which is over 300,000, and as far as the scale of their debts is concerned, they amount to about PLN 10 billion. The government proposal boils down to tightening the penalty for avoiding maintenance obligations. It is an ailment, a sentence of imprisonment. In my opinion, the question should be asked: Will this solution make maintenance debtors pay and thus will the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance obligations increase? There's a lot to do here. Based on the data that you included in the justification for the bill - these are data from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy - the effectiveness of the actions taken against maintenance debtors - these are data from 2014 - amounted to only 8.3% and the total expenditure on maintenance fund benefits amounted to about PLN 1.5 billion and was 1.4% higher than the corresponding expenditure in 2013 The project we are talking about is based on the assumption that the main element that will ensure that debtors start paying alimony is a high penalty, but it is not the case. Currently, more than 3,000 are in detentions and prisons. persons convicted of persistent evasion from the payment of alimony. According to the data I have, 1.5,000. persons sentenced to imprisonment for this purpose shall not be punished for various reasons, inter alia. because of the lack of prison facilities, so this shows that there can be doubts as to the effectiveness of this penalty, especially since it is on the shoulders of the State that it is the responsibility of the State to pay alimony payments for persons who are not covered by this obligation under the maintenance fund, which is the burden on taxpayers. It may be argued that in the case of persons who have refused to pay child support, taxpayers are charged twice: on the one hand, payments to the maintenance fund, on the other hand, the costs of a convicted person's stay which is waived from the maintenance obligation. In our view, the solution to the problem of avoiding maintenance obligations requires deeper changes, not just tightening penalties for avoiding maintenance obligations. Attention should be paid to the possibility of changing the criterion for courts to determine the amount of alimony, for example by objecting to it, in order to rule out to debtors an argument of too high alimony which is impossible for them to pay. In our view, in the assessment of the Civic Platform Club, these changes are not perfect, but we do not ask for the rejection of this project at first reading, and we will continue to take the decision to support the proposed solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u223	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Chrobak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How does the most famous Polish non-alignant, Mr. Kijowski, work to avoid a summons before the prosecutor? It's simple. Mr Kievsky and thousands like him know that by paying at least 50 zlotys a month of alimony, he avoids exhaustion of the basic mark of the act of the typed in the article. 209 Penal Code in the form of stubbornness. There is a whole group of combinators in Poland, who is well aware of it. She is led by Mateusz Kijowski; dressed in expensive jackets, designer bracelets, with the latest iPhone on his ear mocking the justice system. All this in the majesty of the law, because he knows perfectly well how to get away with assigning the marks of persistence. Just a permanent order for 50 PLN per month, such combinators in Poland are thousands. It has long been suggested that the act of art. 209 The Penal Code was materialized, and in this direction The amendment is on its way. To date, only persistent evasion of maintenance obligations has been punished, putting the person entitled to the inability to meet basic needs of life at risk. The project proposes that exposure to the basic needs of life by fulfilling the signs of a prohibited act, i.e. non-compliance with maintenance obligations was a qualified type. There will be no interpretation freedom or interpretation difficulties. Not paying alimony is a crime against your own child, stealing it not only from money, but also from many chances. You don't pay, you're a criminal. You'll pay back, you can avoid punishment. I'm pretty sure that this one that's being proposed in the project will lead to thousands of non-alignants suddenly finding money. The proposed amendments are similar to those in force in France, where parents who avoid paying child support for 2 months are punishable by two years in prison. I'm pretty sure Mr. Kievsky, either from the can, or not from the can, is gonna pull out the 200,000. And he's gonna give it to his family, and what's more, he's gonna stop stealing from this family. If he doesn't, Minister Ziobro will simply change his colored strings and bracelets to a grey, heavy, state-owned electronic surveillance bracelet. I am sure that the project will improve the fate of many Polish mothers and children robbed every day by dishonest fathers who can, because they have such opportunities, but prefer to spend on something else, or work, although it is not lacking now, is not their most important priority in life. Of course, we cannot overlook the fact that not maintenance applies not only to fathers but also to mothers. As parents, we are obliged to maintain children, and children have the right to have a good relationship with both parents. Unfortunately, often courts, judging alimony, at the same time alienate a child from one of the parents by making contact once a month. Mothers make it more difficult for a father to contact a child, [[Applause]] which causes him to rebel and stop paying alimony. The courts should also verify the amount of alimony and the financial capacity of the parent, because we are aware that the amount of alimony is disproportionate to the income of the parent. From this place I turn to mothers and fathers: Remember, you do not divorce children. You can stop being a wife and a husband, but you never stop being a parent. We support the project in its shape. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u225	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u226	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In Poland alimony is paid, as the Minister has already said, by less than 20% of the parents obliged to do so. Non-compliance with this obligation has an impact on the quality of life of children in every aspect, among others. health, educational opportunities, opportunities in the labour market. Non-alimentation is economic violence, which is why changes in criminal law are so important, and those proposed in the project are a step in the right direction. Allow me to make a few comments: the condition for the exposure of the person entitled to maintenance to the inability to meet the basic needs of life, which has been transferred to the proposed § Article 2 209 The Penal Code, in practice, has not worked properly so far. If the parent under whose care the child is taken care of meets the basic needs of the child or is provided with a maintenance fund, then the condition of the offence disappears and investigations are waived, even though the attitude of the perpetrator does not change at all and still does not have any financial contribution to the child's maintenance. It is necessary to remove the grounds for exposure of a person entitled to maintenance to the inability to satisfy the basic needs of life under the Penal Code or to create a definition that would prevent any interpretation of this provision. The same has happened with the deletion of the article. 209 the grounds for persistent evasion, which was interpreted differently by law enforcement authorities and thus avoided the responsibility of a parent who was obliged to pay alimony. It is very often impossible to prove in court that a parent who fails to pay alimony has income from undisclosed sources, thus cheating on his own child and the state. This is a systemic problem, which is in the interest of all of us, because it involves the costs that you bear. Penalty is also a considerable cost to the state. The solution to this problem could be proposed by the bailiff Robert Damski to use the electronic surveillance system, which was discussed at a modern public hearing organised by me. Firstly, the sentence of imprisonment makes it impossible to enforce alimony from an obliged parent and generates higher costs for the State Treasury. Electronic surveillance reduces the possibility of working in black and avoids the problem of stigmatizing children whose parent goes to prison for not paying child support. In addition, it would be advisable to integrate the IT systems of the Chambers with the Social Insurance Institution system, including the system of law enforcement authorities' cooperation with the tax authorities and the Social Security Office for information on the illegalness of the debtor's paid work. And now for the big deal, I'm talking about a fine. This fine is completely missed because it will not change the situation of the child, but only increase the debt of the maintenance debtor, without resolving any of the problems which are the purpose of these changes in the Penal Code. The same is true of the punishment of forced social work, and in terms of imprisonment, it could be replaced by the obligation to work in places designated by the labour office under the strict conditions of imprisonment if the debtor fails to comply with that obligation. These are the demands of the Association of Aliments are not gifts, which have been dealing with the problem of non-alimentation in Poland for years. When it comes to non-alination, it is often justified for a parent who fails to do so by the fact that his life situation does not allow him to pay alimony. Meanwhile, a parent who has a child under his care feels truly obliged and often simply does everything to give a child a decent life. The repeal of the maintenance obligation should also be specified in the Penal Code. There should be a list of forms of evasion for which there is a penalty, e.g. Hiding wealth or income. The problem of non-alimentation in Poland is a complex problem. In order to minimise it, changes are needed not only in the Penal Code, but the proposal for an amendment is a step in the right direction, which is why the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the project. We really hope that not only will we stop there, it will not end only with punishment, because we must be aware that in Poland there is really a great permission to not pay alimony. Someone who is an ally is not a bad person in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u227	Mrs Joanna Augustynowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One sentence I'll try to find out within the time frame. The bill is definitely going in the right direction, only a drop in the sea of the need for alimony. Once again, alimony is not a gift. Therefore, penalties for maintenance debtors: yes, absolutely, because we need to have any tool to force these debtors to carry out their duties. On the other hand, there is a slight suggestion to the government to include also the income threshold in the maintenance fund. 'Cause I'm gonna raise the minimum wage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] causes that by 9 zlotys exceed the minimum national and the children are deprived of this benefit, and unfortunately the PiS votes reject the Modern project in this respect, so I call on the government to make an amendment in this respect too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u229	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present our position on the government proposal for a law amending the Penal Code in print no 1193. The aim of the project under consideration today is to ensure that the maintenance rights of entitled persons are implemented more effectively. This tool is intended to amend the provision of the Article. 209 The Penal Code provides that a person whose maintenance debt exceeds the sum of three periodic benefits due, most often monthly, will be punishable by fines, imprisonment or imprisonment until the year of imprisonment. On the basis of such a wording, this legal standard disappears, at least in the form of a basic criminal offence, the indications of persistence and inability to satisfy basic life needs. Resistance is replaced by a precisely defined 3-month non-payment period and the inability to meet basic living needs appears in a qualified version of the offence, namely Article. 209 § 2 of the Code. A higher sentence, because up to two years in prison, will threaten a person who does not pay alimony, exposes the closest person to the inability to meet the basic needs of life. However, alimony debtors will be able to avoid penalties if they voluntarily compensate for their arrears prior to the initiation of proceedings against them. As today, under the amended legislation, prosecution of a criminal offence set out in the Act will be followed at the request of the victim, the social assistance body or the authority taking action against the maintenance debtor. High Izbo! According to the Institute of Public Affairs, the problem of not paying child support concerns about 1 million children in Poland. The bailiffs run nearly 600,000. procedures aimed at enforcing maintenance, and the effectiveness of enforcement is estimated at only 19,5% cases. The problem is undoubtedly serious and affects a great number of Polish families. It is also clear that there is a need for changes in the maintenance system to improve the collection of maintenance and to better safeguard the existence of persons to such eligible benefits. However, one cannot ask whether a three - month period of not paying is sufficient to punish people with prison. Perhaps consideration should be given to the possibility of reporting the impossibility of payment of maintenance to the relevant public authorities, e.g. a social assistance centre to help a parent with a maintenance obligation. After all, every man can find himself in a difficult situation of life. Of course, this difficult situation should be properly documented. The question is: Does prison punishment solve the problem? After all, it is known that an ally in prison is still an unpaid alimony, while at the same time overcrowding prisons. We know this problem from the past, when these places have been drastically lacking, it is precisely because a number of people were being punished for not paying alimony. I must admit to the government that this project is part of the rule that I have repeatedly pointed out from this speaker that a severe punishment is to be a panacea is to be a solution to a problem when it comes to criminal policy. So it is above all this severity of punishment that is supposed to be the solution to our social problems. On the other hand, social organisations and the Ombudsman have made a number of demands to improve the maintenance system, which, unfortunately, the government party does not take into account. As I mentioned, prison sentences prevent a debtor from making money and paying alimony. So why not replace the prison sentence already mentioned here by the previous speakers with an electronic surveillance penalty in justified cases? The convicted person could continue to carry on his business, which would certainly make it easier for him to settle maintenance claims and correct his mistakes. At the same time, we would not bear any additional costs and would not increase the debt of not paying alimony. Other recommendations made by the public are the introduction at the maintenance stage as a facilitation for the court of the maintenance table, which would set minimum [[♪ The bell ♪]] child support depending on the income of the parent and the age of the child. It is also suggested that a child's assistant be appointed, a person whose task would be solely to take care of the child's interests in divorce and divorce. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is also in favour of us continuing to work on this law, but we bring, appeal to the applicants of this project, to the Ministry of Justice, to weigh on...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u231	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u232	...postulates just relaxing raw materials and introducing tools into this place that will increase the efficiency of child support collection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u233	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act. Today's draft amendment is part of the pro-family policy pursued by the Government of Law and Justice. Its assumptions focus on clarifying the law on the collection of maintenance arrears from debtors, which are often caused by the untrue inability of a person to pay such an obligation, but only by its racketeering and the use of the so-called. legal circumvention of the law. The current rules on the collection of maintenance claims show that these rules are formulated in such a way that they can be interpreted too extensively. Thus, despite the specific amount that the person charged with alimony should pass on to his/her charge to the court, the payment of up to 10 zlotys is a prerogative to avoid the penalty provided for by that person. The drafters of the amendment, noting the shortcomings that exist and the burden associated with them for both single parents and the state budget, propose that the rules be further detailed. The proposed amendments provide for penalties for persons whose maintenance arrears will reach a level of at least three benefits in the case of interim benefits or whose late payment will be at least 3 months in the case of non-periodic benefits. Punishment in the event of such crimes, because not paying alimony is a crime against your own children, is a fine, limitation or imprisonment. It is worth noting that, in the event of the proposed changes, the condition of the inability of a single parent to satisfy the basic needs of a child's life will be a condition to increase the sentence and not to start prosecuting a debtor, as has been the case so far. I fully support all the proposed changes, believing that they will contribute to the recovery of maintenance arrears and will encourage parents obliged to pay child support to fulfil their obligations and bear responsibility for their children. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceedings of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u235	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. Eight of your parliamentarians have signed up for questions. Question time - 2 minutes. Please, as the first Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Debt Register at the end of last year reported that the maintenance debt exceeded PLN 10.5 billion. This Act will significantly strengthen sanctions for those who do not pay alimony. The reasons for such action are several, including the difficult material situation of maintenance debtors who, despite the tightening of the rules, will still not pay outstanding and ongoing maintenance. There is already a large group of such people in Polish prisons, which we all hold. First of all, I would like to ask how many maintenance debtors are currently in prisons in our country and how many are waiting to be executed. According to my information, it is a total of several thousand people, and once the rules are tightened, this number can change dramatically, increase dramatically. Will the government, in connection with this bill, attempt to construct further changes in the law so that maintenance debtors have priority over paid work in prisons, which could cover the backlog of alimony? And another thing that gets me the attention of single mothers. Many of them do not receive support from the maintenance fund because they exceed the income criterion by several zlotys. Will this criterion be analysed? When will His Majesty be raised? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u237	Thank you, Member. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a few questions about this project. I will point out that we think that the project is of course good and we will support it, although there are some doubts, questions that we would like to know the answer to. A very positive change introduced by you is the possibility of being released from the penalty if all debt is repaid. But why do you want to introduce this benefit to a more severe type only at a judicial stage after all the proceedings have been carried out? Perhaps it is worth considering another solution, because it is known that court hearings can, i.e. For the court, you can wait a year and a year and a half for the trial. This is not an incentive for a person who, on the one hand, would have e.g. To pay off, pay off the whole thing, and, on the other hand, wait for the sentence and maybe be convicted. Therefore, there are doubts here. You're still talking about increasing the penalty for criminals, including parents who don't pay alimony. So the question is why in this case you don't raise the penalty, and you lower it, because we have two types, and in one type, this two-year sentence is reduced to a year. And the final question is, what do you think of the people who are being prosecuted now? Have you thought of them too? Will they also be able to repay the debt and avoid the penalty? Why is there no transitional provision in this law for such a situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u239	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Skutecki. [[Effective? Me too.]] Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, of course. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Any punishment is against the interests of the child. In this project proposed by you, this objective is not achieved because the child's material situation is not improving, but because the so-called debt. The alimentary's up. And in order to solve this problem, I think we should consider whether you should consider what effective tools are used to get as much money as possible for the child. The child's welfare is crucial, and in this case neither the punishment of forced social work nor the punishment of prison really improves the child's existence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u241	Thank you very much. And Mr Paweł Skutecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u242	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Everyone's wiping their mouths with the baby's good today, and I have a few questions. The basic question is, why isn't there an ombudsman in the room? Why isn't there an ombudsman in the O.R.? That's how they're interested in the subject in reality. You're talking about the child's welfare, and this is where you're going with the change you're proposing. Well, let's think about it. The welfare of the child is actually at risk in Poland for two reasons - because of the material situation of the guardian, parent and because of something called parental alienation. You want to punish a parent with a ruthless prison, not necessarily a father who avoids paying child support not always fairly awarded by a court which does not always take into account the possibilities or actual earnings of that parent, and you do not punish a parent who prevents contact with the child of another parent. [[Applause]] If you want to sharpen your punishments - I am wholeheartedly for - then let's punish a parent who doesn't pay child support, and a parent who prevents contact with the child of another parent. Then it'll be fair. Question to the Minister: Is there work on changing the law in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u243	Thank you. And Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendments to the Penal Code of Punishment. Allies are trying to patch a wooden barrel with toothpicks. What does the government have in mind in order for the courts to rule on alimony on the basis of actual income and not the ability to earn? For example, a guy makes $3,000, and alimony is $2,000. He loses his job, he gets into debt, and the kids, like they were hurt by their parents or by a father who didn't pay, that's how they are. I often receive people for bread, for things, for groceries, for clothing, for support. It hurts the heart that such children were left without food because of such a father, but let's create, let's work it all out so that this father, an ally so-called... Maybe it's an ugly name, 'cause not everyone's like that, I know people who pay. It's hard for mothers like that, I call them heroes sometimes, and especially when my mother comes to me, my father doesn't pay, and the child is disabled... My heart hurts like that. But something moved, and I'd like to work it out so it's really cool to get that money out of those parents so they can pay -- because they're not just guys, they're women who leave their kids, they're abandoning them, and they're following... I don't know what for. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u245	Thank you, sir. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: How does the government intend to provide paid work for prisoners who lose their freedom because of their non-payment of alimony? There are those who avoid them, often earning a lot and signing their property into the account of other family members, and there are those who are unemployed and have no chance of really fulfilling their obligations to their children. If this punishment is to be a punishment, which will at least attempt to straighten out these relationships with the child by providing him with a proper standard of living, then there is a need to direct the prisoner to stay in an establishment that, for example, is necessary. has an agreement with some workplaces and has the opportunity to provide work, which will result in the payment of debt to the child of the person imprisoned for debt to the maintenance fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u247	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask one such fundamental question, Minister, namely: Why did you not benefit from the very rich offer of the social side when preparing this project? You could often use very good ideas here. I hope that not everything in this regard is lost. In particular, such a single request, which the social side has put forward, seems to be an interesting idea, namely the introduction of a universal maintenance allowance for children whose parents do not pay alimony. This would shift the problem of enforcing late payments of child support from parent-parent relationship to parent-state relationship. Non-payment of alimony would not be a problem for children, mothers, whom the previous speaker also pointed out. It would be the duty of the state here. Perhaps it would also provide a number of good tools to make sure that it does not necessarily involve prison, but to ensure that these benefits go to those who, in many cases,... Because it's okay to say yes, I think, over all divisions: that's where they're supposed to go. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u249	Thank you. And Mr Marek Kwitek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed amendments are necessary as the amendment of the law will allow for a more effective and effective fight against the pathology of non-alimentation. Its aim is to improve the efficiency of the enforcement of maintenance services and to eliminate current adverse events in the form of deliberate evasion of persons obliged to maintain maintenance on the legal obligation to maintain maintenance by withholding income and assets. The Act proposes an amendment to the non-alination offence primarily by eliminating existing indications in the form of persistence and inability to satisfy the basic life needs of the person entitled to a more objective criterion in the form of maintenance arrears equivalent to at least three periodic benefits or a delay in the outstanding non-periodic benefit of at least 3 months. The explanatory memorandum of the Act states that, in view of the preventive nature of the change, the number of persons who have deviated from maintenance obligations over the years will decrease. At the same time, it is possible to increase the number of court proceedings during the initial period of regulation. As stated in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, it is assumed that, compared to the previous years in the first 2 years, to prisons for offences under Article. 209 Penal Code goes to more convicts. In view of the above considerations, I have two questions. Does the Ministry have up-to-date information on the number of vacant places in prisons and whether, in connection with the parallel amendment of the Law, the Penal Code tightening the rules on land traffic, the Ministry is prepared to address the possible problem of placing more than average number of prisoners in prisons during the first 2 years of the amendment? Second question: Does the Ministry have estimates of information, if the average rate of the number of repealers is lower [[♪ The bell ♪]] from alimony after a period of 2 years from the date of the amendment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u251	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. That is why I ask you to take the floor of Minister Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Małgorzata Płępek asked the question, which later appeared also in subsequent questions, and I will therefore allow me to answer it first. Namely, as to the severity of punishment it is a myth, there is no more severe punishment. It is right that Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska pointed out that we are even reducing the penalty. We introduce this so skillfully that we introduce objectivity in terms of criminal liability while reducing the penalty. We lower the penalty, we don't sharpen it. Why? This is precisely why to hit the needs, and the needs are as follows: from this gate, which I was just talking about, namely because of the inability to satisfy, this is one criterion, and, the second criterion, the persistence of these problems is due, as I mentioned, to the withdrawal from the appointment, the withdrawal from the preliminary proceedings, the remission. Hence, it is not true that we are sharpening the penalty. We even mitigate the punishment, but we so skillfully formulate the marks of the new criminal rule, in order to meet the need to include those who pretend to pay something, and in fact do not pay anything, pay fictitiously, on instalments, such substitutes, which prevent effective prosecution. Chasing, but not more severe punishment. And it is a being to punish them, but not to put them in prison, in colloquially speaking. And it will also scroll in subsequent questions. Mrs Płępek also asked about statistics. Namely, on 31 December Ub. In Polish prisons, 3676 people were sentenced to imprisonment for persistent evasion of child support. Total maintenance obligations of 13 000 Prisoners, not much more than 13,000, were sentenced to imprisonment... Out of this number, some 3700 people were employed, i.e. 29%. This allowed for a total deduction of 10,858 thousand in 2015. zł. The average installment hit is PLN 240. Total number of deductions - 45 thousand. The next question by Mrs Kornelia Wróblewska, which I have just referred to, is why we are not tightening up criminal liability. That is why, in order to effectively eliminate this debt, to effectively enforce money, to effectively give this money to this million children, not to put someone in jail. After all, we already have solutions in the Enforcement Penal Code, which give priority to establishing electronic rings for these types of perpetrators. So that here this year of imprisonment is absolutely sufficient. If we look at criteria in other legal systems, in Germany the basic type is punishable by a penalty of up to 3 years, in France - up to 2 years in Spain - by imprisonment up to 1 year. So that we even ease the criminal responsibility when it comes to sanctions, but at the same time introduce an objectiveization of this responsibility, so that the one who is to be convicted is convicted, but to work and to give this money to the children. As one of the messengers rightly pointed out here, we don't divorce children, we don't stop being a parent, we just stop being married. So that's a myth: tightening up punishment. Mrs Wróblewska's next question was about the article. 4th Penal Code. What about the defendants today? These people, in accordance with the principle of lex retro non agit, will of course not be able to benefit from the privileges, so I would say, of this law, but also from the sharpening of this law. We are therefore faced with a situation in which the courts can take into account the purpose that the legislator has set itself, namely to benefit from a waiver of the penalty, namely to conditionally cancel the proceedings if they fully repay their debt, they will remedy the damage caused by the crime. Finally, the courts can benefit from the extent of the minor harm to the social act and put an end to this procedure, so that there is a whole package of solutions already in existence in the legislation that allows the courts to apply this law in a direct manner. The next question was asked by Mrs Stępień. It was also about tightening up the responsibility, so that I had already responded to it. Mr Paweł Skutecki asks about preventing contact with the child and accuses us that we have not solved this problem. This is not the case, it is the domain of family law and changes in execution, so that the project does not concern contact with the child. The sphere of family relations is a very broad sphere, and here are many other issues, not only those raised by your Member, so that you could also ask a lot of other questions why we didn't do this or that. We wanted to put an end to this state of fiction, mocking the laws that are currently taking place, which I have said - namely, a million children are without money, waiting for money - and we are solving it. Other needs will be analysed. Mr Stefan Romecki also asked this question, but he also asked whether the court should take into account the opportunities for work. Let me put it this way: If we have a situation where somebody says they're making $3,000. zł, and it has opportunities for 10,000. zł, and when we create a legal framework to ensure that only the amount declared - as was the case with the Member's question - is valid for the court, it would even encourage the court to hide its income, so that the court should absolutely examine the commercial opportunities that someone has, and not just the amount declared; this is the gateway to escape precisely into impunity, into non-payment. I'm showing you $3,000. zł, and I can afford 10,000. Zloty, I've got a lot bigger business opportunities. Of course, you can apply for a change of alimony - and at any time - for an increase, a reduction and a court has a duty to respond to it, so that the court will rule on alimony at a given, specific moment, it is not once and for all. I think I've exhausted all the questions... Excuse me. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska asked a question about hiring convicted persons. I thank you for this question, Commissioner, because this problem is indeed very important for us to solve and we have foreseen it in our law, which is already in force. Namely, the work of convicted persons, and in particular the work of convicted persons for non-alimentation, is that, firstly, we have increased the lump sum for entrepreneurs employing convicted persons, secondly, we have increased the contributions to the fund for the activation of convicted persons, and then, every time, there will be production halls for convicted persons, and finally what I was talking about - in the Penal Code we introduce a priority for those convicted for non-alimentation, and these people will first end up in the electronic surveillance system, i.e. they will normally have electronic rings in place. Yesterday - here we can already boast - we received the European Commission's approval for public aid to entrepreneurs who employ convicted persons, and so far this has been estimated to be 40% , we calculate that the number of convicted workers will rise to 80%. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk asked a question about universal maintenance for children. Here I am not the right person, sir, this is a question for the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. I can't answer that question, so I'm gonna let myself get to the next question, the last one. Number of vacant places in prisons. There will be no problem here, which Mr Marek Kwitek referred to, namely the problem of filling prisons or some, one might say, excess of persons convicted in prisons. There's no such danger. In Polish prisons, the sentence of imprisonment, as I mentioned, is currently being carried out by 3676 convicts, and these arguments which I had previously put forward, namely electronic rings and other forms of criminal liability, are absolutely lying to such claims, as if we were introducing a solution which overcrowded penal establishments. According to our estimates, such concerns are absolutely unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u253	Thank you. The discussion is closed. Member of the House? What ad vocem, sir? There's no ad vocem in the rules. [[I just wanted to correct...]] But what would you like to correct, sir? [[Because the Minister was talking about smart guys...]] Only in correction mode, not ad vocem.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u254	I'll be brief to the Minister. The Minister was talking about these smart guys... I don't want to defend myself, I just know the reality. In my district, make $3,000. Evil is hard. The point is, $2,000. Evil alimony... I don't want to hide because I'm in favour of punishing and my parents paying that money. With us in the district, after these 27 years of promise to all governments, people make a national average, the lowest national average, they have trash deals, which is why they're worried about getting into debt... It's a problem that they're in debt later, and it stays for the rest of their lives, that's what I'm worried about, not smart guys. I'd exterminate the smart guys, too, and punish as much as I can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u255	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are addressed by the Government's draft law amending the Law of the Criminal Code, contained in print No 1193, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws (Print No. 1231). I ask Minister Michael Wójcik to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u256	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a government proposal to amend the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print no.1231. I am very pleased that this government project was being created, you can say, at a rapid pace, and the beginning was a tragic incident, a fatal accident. I have to say this here because I really wanted this project to be carried out through Parliament. It was a fatal accident. A teenage girl died in Prague hit by a driver who shouldn't be in that car, shouldn't be driving this car at all. Let's face it, we've done a very thorough review of the whole system. Indeed, there are some gaps in the system that we should seal as soon as possible and make changes as soon as possible. In some cases, these changes will be far-reaching, such as drivers, road pirates - let us not be afraid of that term - or those who, after drinking alcohol, sit behind the wheel, are people who often cause fatal accidents or cause serious injury to a person's health. To help understand the social importance of this project, I would like to quote some statistics that illustrate what we are really dealing with. Well, in 2015, because we have such data today, more than 32 thousand have been reported. traffic accidents, police reported 32,000. road accidents. Their deaths were ok. $3,000. persons. There were almost 40,000 wounded in these cases. people, seriously injured - more than 11 thousand. persons. These are alarming data. To this end, I would like to inform you that there were 60,000 people who had their driving rights revoked in 2013 in 2014. - more than 66 thousand in 2015, - over 64,000. This is a very serious problem. You can say that the rules are very ineffective, since we have an average of over 60,000. persons who are withdrawn from driving rights annually. As far as the number of people who have been legally sentenced to imprisonment is concerned, in the case of the most serious crimes, drunk drivers who have been involved, there were 252 in 2013 but - and here I would like to emphasise very strongly - in the case of as many as 93 people, a judgment has been given with the use of a conditional suspension of the sentence. These are 93 out of 252 and in 2014 30 out of 151, in 2015 25 out of 112. This is also alarming data, because it shows, shows, that despite the fact that someone who is intoxicated, i.e. above 0,5., sits behind the wheel, leads to a fatal accident, or is under the influence of drugs, some drug, e.g. boosters, that's 30%. or 25% out of these persons, he is simply serving a sentence of imprisonment in the conditions of liberty. This is an unbelievable thing. At the same time, I would also like to provide data on the limitation of certain cases. It's about violations of security and order in communication. There's about a thousand of these cases a year. About a thousand cases, ladies and gentlemen, are statute-barred because the court can't settle a case in time and the case needs to be dropped, a resolution to be given. It is impossible to continue the case in view of the time which has elapsed since the act was committed. According to today's regulations, it's two years. That's where this government project came from, which is supposed to seal our system, eliminate some of the ambiguities that we've seen in the system. Today, I want to tell you that, as regards the limitation of offences, there will be no longer, I hope, the situation with which we met in the case of Frog: 81 statute-of-law offences and games with the police, which have excited and irritated the whole society at the same time. Those offences have been statute of limitations, for a period of two years since the act was committed is often too short for the court to settle the case. A well-prepared lawyer is able, using certain tricks, to maximize this time and the court cannot fit in these 2 years. The case is often opened as a criminal case, which means there is a completely different qualification. Time, of course, runs, and then there is a change of this qualification, we are dealing with an offence, time is running out, and it is not the responsibility of the person who should bear this responsibility. This is the first thing: not 2 years and 3 years. Of course, we leave this one-year period since the act was committed, during which the case must be initiated, but the two-year period since the act was committed is too short. A completely new deadline is introduced: 3 years. The second point is that people in a state of drunkenness cause accidents that result in death or severe injury to the person's health. Today, according to the Penal Code, such a person is responsible for 9 months to 12 years. 9 months, which means that a conditional suspension of the penalty may be applied. That's not gonna happen anymore. People who intoxicate, kill a person or are drugged or drugged or drugged, are to be put behind bars. Therefore, we raise the lower statutory penalty, which will be 2 years. The upper one is left unchanged, so 2 years to 12 years, which means that the execution of the sentence will not be conditionally suspended. The third issue is the emergence of a completely new type of prohibited act - this is a matter of escape from the police. This is a situation that, unfortunately, often happens, a situation that is very dangerous, which is that we are dealing with a person who does not stop for police control, but runs away from the police. Light signals, sound signals are on, and we have no doubt that we are dealing not with accidental failure, which happens in life, can happen, for example due to weather conditions, but with the escape of a person. There is a chase, often this person enters the city, causing a real, very big threat to the safety of people. And I want to tell you that today the police are arresting this person, and the driver is most often responsible only for the offence. This is a misdemeanor. This can't be right. This is actually a very big danger for people who move, whether in road traffic or even for people who live in cities, because this is most often the case in cities. We change these rules here, it will no longer be a criminal offence, it will be a criminal offence, which will be punishable by imprisonment up to the age of 5 years, and we believe that this is - of course I am talking about this upper statutory threat - a penalty appropriate to the degree of threat to this type of criminal offence. Another case concerns what is actually on the table in front of a judge ruling on a particular case when he decides on a road safety crime case. Very often there is no complete picture of the person who is facing this court, most often only has an extract from the KRK register - the National Criminal Register. This is a problem because there are not revealed all, to say the least, traffic offences, road piracy, any violations, offences or crimes. KRK is not enough, there must be a new system. This new system will be based on the fact that we involve the court in the obligation to obtain the data from the records that the police have in their resources, i.e. the records of drivers, the register that pictures, for example. Penalty points, how many criminal points a person has in his account, but also from the second record, the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers, from which we can find out, for example, whether decisions have been taken to withdraw driving rights in a given case. Only then, if we have information from these two records, as well as from the KRK, will the court have a full picture of who it is really dealing with, and will it be able to actually give a judgment just to the person concerned. Another issue is the court's ruling on the necessity of a mandatory criminal measure - a ban on driving. This prohibition, let me remind you, may be imposed as a criminal measure in the range from one year to 15 years. We have a curial situation - art. 180a. We have a situation in which the administrative authority has decided to withdraw powers. This decision is being violated. Someone can't drive the car, but they get in the car and get caught by the police. And imagine that, in 2015, in fact, 1,400 such cases, the court, although it could have ruled as a criminal measure mandatory to take away the right to drive, only in four cases ruled that criminal measure. This is an unbelievable thing. We introduce the mandatory release of this criminal measure, the application of this criminal measure, the compulsory withdrawal of powers not only in this case, but also in the second case where there is a real pursuit of the person concerned. Just like you. I told you, it won't be a misdemeanor anymore, but it will be a crime, and it will also be criminalized. This is a very important matter. At the same time, as far as the border is concerned, we raise to 5 years the responsibility for failing to comply with the criminal justice measure. Today it's a punishment of 3 years, should be 5 years. In today's legal situation, in case of a breach of the administrative ban, it is 2 years, a judicial remedy - 3 years. This is too small a difference between breaking the administrative ban and a court-martial ban as a criminal measure. Therefore, I am presenting a government project, asking the High House to be kind to lean on it, to support it. This is an important project, important not from the point of view of law enforcement, police, prosecutors, the Ministry of Justice or the courts, it is just important for citizens. It's just that the system has to be tight. And we have to remember one thing: out of 100 people, out of 100 accidents, for example. in Austria or Germany 1 person is killed, in Poland - 9. It must give us a lot to think about. This project is the answer. I hope that the culture of travelling on Polish roads will be higher and we will stop debating in the High House only about the inevitability of punishment. Punishment must also be repressive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u257	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Here you go, Mr. Waldemar Buda first. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print no. 1231. In principle, the bill concerns two areas. One area is the extension of the limitation period for criminal offences, and the other is the tightening of liability with several types of criminal offences. With regard to the extension of the limitation period for criminal offences, it seems reasonable to propose, for example, the statistics referred to by the Minister, but also for other reasons. The fact that many defenses, i.e. many efforts by the accused and the defender, are directed to lead not to acquittal, but to limitation of criminality, is one fact, while the other fact is that the justice system is involved, the entire judicial system to conduct proceedings for almost two years or more, and ultimately the case must be dismissed. That means that this work and the involvement of the justice system are unfounded, untapped, do not give rise to liability, so for this reason, for example, it is also advisable to extend the period of criminal offences. Reinforcement of liability in the event of an accident, in the case of driving without the authority or causing an accident under the influence of alcohol or other narcotic drugs, in the light of the statistics that have been presented, should also be considered appropriate. It turns out that today's forks of criminal liability, that is, those forks of liability in which the court moves, are inappropriate, because most often the courts use their lower limit. In the light of these judgments, which point to scandalously low penalties in the case of crimes that upset the public, raising the lower limits in terms of accountability, it is most appropriate. In view of the above, the Law and Justice Club will, of course, support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u259	Thank you, sir. Mr Michael Szczerba, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! You could say stop the road crazy. Stop driving crazy people, all those drunks behind a car wheel. Stop the road crazies who are behind the wheel after the drugs. Stop road lunatics in white collars, rushing from Torun to feta to Warsaw, breaking and bending regulations that refer to people who manage functions in a country who abuse these powers in absolutely inadequate situations. Ladies and gentlemen, 2016 has been the worst year in the last 5 years. The police after 2016 cannot boast about the improvement of safety on Polish roads. Good streak's over. Last year, almost 50 people died in traffic accidents more than in 2015. Last year, 2993 people died in communication accidents in Poland. That's right, Minister, 47 more than the 2015 figures. There are no simple prescriptions, but, of course, when proposals are made to increase the effectiveness of the prosecution of certain offences and traffic offences, including those committed in an intoxicated state or under the influence of an intoxicating agent, and also to criminalise behaviour in road traffic considered dangerous by the legislator, then we will discuss these legal solutions. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us bear in mind that, to a large extent, this effect proposed by the Government regarding the extension of the limitation period for criminal offences could be achieved by improving the action of law enforcement and courts in minor cases, which are, by their very nature, intended to be offences. I would like to remind you that these limitations concerned 1 000. cases for over 440 thousand. cases under investigation. Where's the efficiency of the D.A.'s office? The Prosecutor's Office, which is under the new supervision of the politician, Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. Are you not able to deal with the functioning of law enforcement agencies, so that the 1,000. The statute of limitations was dealt with on time? Or do you need to run those 500 judges you keep in the corners so that the courts can deal with these cases with a lot of meticulousness? Another issue is the freedom to lay down criminal sanctions for crimes. Of course, the legislator has the right to do so, but let us also remember the rights that the courts have. It is the courts who, through their discretion, have the opportunity to freely assess the circumstances of the case and to formulate a penalty appropriate to the extent of the social harm of a particular act. This is a matter to which the National Council of Courts draws attention, which is still functioning and functioning in constitutional composition, but also the Supreme Court. I would suggest that we draw attention to these issues in the course of the work on this revision of the Penal Code Act and other laws. In conclusion, we are accepting this project, knowing that 2016 has shown that road safety is not a priority for this government, also knowing that 2016 is a shameful year in terms of increasing the number of road accidents in our country - for the first time since 2011. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u261	Thank you, sir. I am merely pointing out that, by listing these various lunatics, road users, the Member may have forgot to mention also crazy people riding on top, also under the influence of various drugs or alcohol. I think there's no shortage of such ones either. Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law on amending the Penal Code and other laws, contained in print no.1231, is practically the implementation of the policy of tightening penalties. And almost - in this sector, that is, in the communication sector - this is a good intention, except for two exceptions. One is a matter of limitation. As a club, we will be opposed to extending the limitation period for simple reasons. Well, Minister, the citizen's position in the Code of Misdemeanor as a police officer or a public officer who is a witness is still very weak. Generally speaking, if there is a civilian person who commits an offence, not necessarily a traffic offence, each other, and on the other side is a police officer, then the court always gives the police a believer. So that's the first motive. The second motive, we complain all the time about the fact that judicial proceedings are chronic. In this way, we accept it even more, giving a longer period. Third, in the article. 45 § 2 shall be indicated that, in the event of revocation of the decision in the courts, that period shall be renewed. I don't see any reason to extend the limitation period. And the second thing that scares me personally, although the idea itself is good, is the issue of introducing the content of the article. 178b, that is, the Penalization of this - already in the Penal Code - that if we do not stop... It's about police lights or other officers authorized to do it. The biggest suspicion I have is the phrase "immediately." Well, that's my question. Someone's on the highway, there's a lot of traffic, the police are passing him, they're making him stop, but the traffic on the highway is very big, he can't stop, because that's what's gonna put him in danger. Let me give you an example, I was pulled over on the Italian highway myself, but a cop piloted me to the first exit and there was no talking about stopping on the freeway, just pulling up. And only then. Let me give you a second example, because you are from Silesia, you certainly know the section of the Katowice diameter or the Bielsko-Katowice road, where two lanes of cars go all the time. He's gonna pass him, too, and now the question is whether he's gonna stop, whether he's gonna stop, and when he's gonna stop. What's this right now? There's still a possibility that if you find a malicious police officer, and they are, that may be abused. It would therefore be necessary to clarify this immediately, because if we were to speak immediately in such a situation in a safe place... We must also consider the safety of other road users. These are generally two reservations, all the more so that imprisonment threatens up to 5 years, which is quite a considerable restriction if the person is innocent because he does not stop for security reasons. And now for the second thing, of a general nature. Minister, I understand the restrictive penalties, the direction we're going today. That is the policy of the state and that is what I am able to understand even partially. But it can't be that, for example, the driver... There are three fatalities. You give one example, I give the other. There's a driver driving without a driver's license, there's a DUI, there's three fatalities, there's an ambulance, there's a notice to the D.A.'s office, and the D.A.'s dropping the case, and he says that if he was driving, that means he could drive. It's an old case, but it doesn't rule out that there aren't gonna be flowers like that. The next case, my favorite prosecutor who killed a man, also came out on probation. So let's start with the fact that this punishment has to apply to everyone - everyone, Minister, whether it's the Prime Minister, whether it's the Minister, whether it's the cleaning lady. Otherwise, no tightening of penalties is gonna do any good. So, in general, we will be in favour of referral to committee. These two points, I think, are somehow to be discussed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u263	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u264	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the club's position on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print no. 1231. Indeed, the draft law submitted focuses solely on issues related to the repressiveness and tightening of the rules of the existing types of offences or the introduction of new types of offences, while, as the legislator points out in the explanatory memorandum, it ignores those conditions which always give rise to the offences committed, I am referring to the new rules for the training of drivers who have not yet entered into force and which are very important. On the other hand, you are on the assumption that, rather than inevitably, the Minister himself said, you will improve road safety, which can unfortunately prove to be a false hope. As regards the amendment of the Article. 45 In contrast to the previous speaker, I do not see any negative consequences for the introduction of a longer period of time related to the statute of limitations on criminal offences. Moreover, this provision, which has been 2 years since the end of the annual period since the offence was committed, is also in the Tax Criminal Code, so it is essentially a harmonisation of the rules relating to the calculation of the limitation of criminal offences. Of course, in relation to the limitation of criminal offences in the Penal Code, this is not a long time, because I remind you that in the Penal Code we are 10 and 5 years old. On the other hand, what should be pointed out, however, was stated by the Minister in his speech that the sentence of absolute imprisonment in the event of an accident after alcohol or drugs would be a panacea for all evil, forgetting the role of the court, moderate punishment and assessment of a particular individual case by the court. It is also a question of social aspects related to these actions, inter alia. with the unsub's family life, because he also has a family, as well as the question of keeping the prisoner in prison, especially in cases where a person who commits such an act repents and actively participates in the correction of the harm caused by this criminal act. You are also proposing to tighten up the Article. 244, thus raising the maximum penalty for violating the driving ban from 3 years to 5 years. However, in the explanatory memorandum of the project, you did not indicate any studies related to this fact that such an increase would significantly improve the situation. I share my previous speaker's comments on issues related to non-compliance with the arrest order issued by the police, the criminalisation of this and the indication in this provision of a very vague criterion of criminal liability for this type of act. However, bearing in mind that these changes are designed to improve road safety, eliminate road pirates and that there is a public approval for such a tightening of penalties, the Modern Posel Club will work on these provisions in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u265	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws contained in print no. 1231. There is no doubt that changes are needed in terms of improving road safety. So far a drunk or drugged driver could actually avoid punishment, even when he hurt someone hard or killed someone. In 2015, as many as 26 convictions were suspended against 112 convictions. This project assumes that the perpetrator of such an accident will be behind bars for at least two years. So far, it's been at least nine months imprisonment. Escape from the police is also to be treated much harder. So far, it has been a criminal offence for which a fine and up to 30 days of imprisonment have been imposed. This is now to be a criminal offence punishable by three months to five years of imprisonment. In addition, the court will have to rule against driving. According to the police data, drivers fled more than 2.5 thousand police in 2015. times. Driver detained in case of driving despite the receipt of a driving licence, e.g. for exceeding the limit of 24 penalty points, he will receive a judicial ban on driving. It's a sanction applied today, unfortunately, very rarely. In 2015 for almost 1.4 thousand. the persons convicted of driving after the removal of the entitlement were sentenced in only four cases. If the driver drives a vehicle despite a court order, he will spend a maximum of not three years in prison but five years. It will also be harder to expect a statute of limitations, not after 2 but after 3 years from the time of the act. And in 2015 more than 1 000 The perpetrators of the serious offences escaped punishment because their cases had expired. The courts will also be informed of the prior penalties of the defendants. There is no such obligation at present. The source of such data will be the central and police records of drivers violating traffic regulations. High Izbo, the number of road accident victims in Poland is still one of the largest in the European Union. In 2015 77 victims were reported per million, while in Germany they were only 43 victims, in Spain - 36 and in the UK - only 29 victims. It should be noted that the number of road accident victims in Poland decreased from more than 5 000 in 2007 to 2015. per year to less than 3 000. Many good things have been done during this time to improve safety. Unfortunately, 2016, as one of my previous speakers mentioned, was the first in many years when mortality did not fall, but, on the contrary, increased. According to the police chief's records, almost 3,000 people died in accidents last year. persons. By comparison, the 2015 statistics were talking about slightly over 2900 deaths. Today, decisive action is needed to improve road safety in Poland. First of all, it should be asked whether the removal of the parts of the photo-radar did not adversely affect the safety of the road. It is not known from now on that the presence of cameras has greatly reduced the number of accidents in recent years. Investment in infrastructure is another important factor in reducing road mortality. Undoubtedly, the fall in the number of victims of accidents in 2007 and 2015 was largely due to the fact that we gave many kilometers of new and modernized, but also, which is worth emphasising, safe roads. At this point, it must not be disturbed by the current stagnation in terms of road investments in Poland, and the significant decrease in road investment expenditure. High Izbo are the main and most important methods of reducing the number of victims of accidents - speed control and the construction of safe roads. I think there's a social expectation today to tighten the penalties against road pirates. I believe that a suspended sentence for a road killer taunts the sense of justice. But let us remember that without these two pillars of speed control and investment [[♪ The bell ♪]] in infrastructure, we will not improve safety on Polish roads, even if we sentence road pirates to life. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing the project to the committee, but it also has many sceptical suggestions about these entries, but I would like to express the example of my predecessors also hope that doubts will be eliminated in the course of the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u267	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. Traffic regulations alongside tax regulations have the greatest impact on each and every one of us. Whether we are drivers or other road users, we can become victims of an accident resulting in death or serious injury. Those involved in the movement who cause an accident under the influence of alcohol or intoxicants face particular social disapproval. The important thing is that they are often young people who are not afraid of the consequences of driving under prohibited measures. Recidents are also an important group, whose punishment has not stopped them from doing it again. This is because the applicable road traffic law is not too precise and does not provide for too severe penalties for traffic offences. Undoubtedly, a short period of time has a significant impact on a slight change in the bad habits of drivers, after which there is a statute of limitations and, consequently, the perpetrators of traffic offences remain unpunished. Therefore, I agree with the designers that such actions should be punished exceptionally quickly and extend the time limit after which they are subject to statute of limitations. In the current state of law, criminal threats to certain types of criminal offences related to security violations in land traffic are inadequate to the actions committed. These include causing drunkenness or an intoxicating accident resulting in the death of another person or a serious injury to his or her health. Today, the lower limit of punishment for this act is only nine months. The designer rightly wants to raise it to two years. Rules on criminal liability for driving a motor vehicle by persons who have been withdrawn from driving are also required to be regulated and clarified. The bill introduces a new type of prohibited act - escape from pursuit. It is an increasingly common practice on Polish roads, which poses a serious threat to the health and life of people on the route of escape of such a vehicle. In my opinion, this crime should be punished more severely than a road accident because it is committed consciously. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the project presented and requests that it be processed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u269	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. And the first question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Print Act 1231 provides for the amendment of the Penal Code and the introduction of an obligation to rule on a criminal measure in the form of a ban on driving in case of conviction for a new offence in Article. 178b Criminal Code. Who, despite the release by a person authorized to control traffic, a moving vehicle or on a ship or aircraft, using sound and light signals, does not stop the order to stop the motor vehicle immediately - as my colleague Jachnik has already noticed, and this is a continuation of how important it is - the vehicle and continues to drive, is punishable by imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years. This provision shall include an obligation to stop the vehicle immediately. Please answer the question: How will the immediate stop of the vehicle be treated if this is not possible, e.g. for road safety reasons? Wouldn't the wording of this provision give rise to interpretation doubts? I would remind you that criminal rules must be extremely precise and precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u271	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Road offences are to be statute-barred in cases where proceedings have been initiated only after 3 years and not after 2 years after they have been committed. In 2015, more than a thousand of the perpetrators of dangerous traffic offences met no penalty because their cases had expired. I wanted to ask if, in assessing the authors of the changes, the extension of the limitation period of the offence would change this situation. Because it's still connected with a punishment that the perpetrators consciously avoid, not prevention. And one more thing. During the examination of road traffic offences cases, the police will each time have the driver's history of the number and type of offences committed by the driver concerned or the prior detention of the right. Shouldn't rules be put in place, rather than leaving it to the courts to judge, more severe penalties for the perpetrators of traffic offences who are criminal offenders in this regard? The criminal code merely states that such a person can be punished for no longer than 1 month. I think it's far too low a punishment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u273	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u274	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a general question because, in principle, since December 2015, we have been in the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications informed about ongoing work on a comprehensive regulation related to the revision of the Criminal Code. Last year, on the other hand, we had six amendments to the Penal Code. Currently, at every session of the Sejm we have a change of the Penal Code, at this session of the Sejm even two amendments to the Penal Code. I have the indisputable impression that changes are dictated solely by populist objectives, by playing criminal rules here for purely political purposes, and not for the purpose of introducing certain rules. So that I ask for an answer when we can expect a comprehensive revision of the Penal Code so that all these changes are consistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u275	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Wójcik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u276	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! To begin with, I would like to thank you very warmly for all the questions and for this kindness, too, I understand in criticism. I'll refer to you, I'll try to address all the questions you've asked here. First of all, Mr Rometsky, and the question relating to what Mr Jerzy Jachnik was talking about, the issue of this urgency. Instantly means in the first possible places where you can stay. Instantly it does not mean immediately, right away, here rather often such situations will not occur. Members, we are dealing here with a situation where, instead of committing a crime, we are creating a crime and something which is obvious, i.e. that someone does not stop for control and flees from the police. The police turn on sound signals, light signals, there's no doubt there's a chase going on. It means that, in this situation, the Member does not run away from the police, but can be overtaken and stopped in a place where it is possible to stop in accordance with the regulations. Immediately, without the so-called. undue delay - in interpreting this case law, using case law - in the first possible places where such detention may take place, i.e. in accordance with the rules. At the same time, I would like to use the regulation on road traffic control here and send both Members back to this regulation, because that is where this catalogue of concrete actions that we are dealing with in this situation is described. During the legislative work, we will refer to this regulation and in this way also respond to this doubt about the immediate stopping of the vehicle. Mrs Navel asks about the extension of the limitation period. We have prepared these provisions just so that there will be no statute of limitations, no situation as I have stated. In Frog's case, it was only because these two years weren't enough to close the whole case. The guilt may have been on the side of the court, but it didn't have to be on the side of law enforcement. Sometimes, as I say, this happens because different kinds of tricks are used, because the procedure could have been initiated for a completely different act, which is a crime and then there is a change of qualification. So here we can deal with very different situations, so we extend this limitation period from 2 to 3 years. This seems to be a sufficient period of time to settle the matter. In the case of offenders, the question of detention is already addressed in the Code of Offences today, so it does not seem that there is a need for a change in this regard. Mr Pampuch - I will also refer to what you asked earlier - he asks, among other things. about why we put in a project every once in a while and we process projects concerning e.g. Penal Code. This particular project concerns several legal acts: the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Traffic Law, the Code of Offences and the Criminal Code as well. Well, we are preparing such a far - reaching change. The need for this change results from the fact that the Polish system is one of the mildest against criminals who commit the most serious crimes. I'm talking about crimes against life, health, sexual freedom. This amendment will deal with precisely these crimes, so we see no reason in the case of road safety offences to include these issues in this profound amendment which is currently being prepared in the Justice Department. I say again that there will be the most serious crimes that are being punished by penalties that are too low in principle. I've had the opportunity to talk about it many times before. Again, it's about crimes against life, health, sexual freedom. As far as Mr Szczerba is concerned, I understand, Marshal, that I can refer to what was discussed here in the speeches or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u277	Yes, you're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Mr President, you can politicize everything, really. It's all coming together... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: But not like this.]] Minister, I was just... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I'm not polemicizing. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Minister, I would very much like it to be really substantive, and without... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I'll say it in other words, then. I'd like that very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Everything can be really politicized. Indeed, the government of Minister Ziobra, the Minister of Justice, cannot be held responsible for the limitation of limitations, e.g. for limitation of proceedings. As I have just said, these limitations can be the result of very different factors. I'm sure the Minister of Justice has nothing to do with this or his actions. We are here to create a legal framework, but this can be the result of law enforcement, prosecution, police, courts, Members and sometimes ordinary tricks. It doesn't really depend on any of those organs I've mentioned, least on the Minister of Justice. I'm sorry you didn't need to attack the police, which enjoys a really high level of trust, I think. [[I didn't attack.]] On the other hand, you've quoted the number of accidents, which means we're not in charge because there are more deaths. I very much regret that there are no fatalities at all. This amendment is just to try to improve safety on Polish roads. On the other hand, if you have already reported the number of these accidents, about 2900 in 2016, if I remember correctly, I think that's what you said, then please refer to the figures for 20133357 fatalities. In 2013, someone else was in charge, but let me be honest, I would never have let myself say that one of the groups was responsible for these deaths, really. But we're going too far. Mr Jachnik raised the question of Article. Forty-five misdemeanors. Yes, sir, it is only a matter of deletion or renewal, that is, it is moving again, but in a very specific case. This isn't about instance control, it's about extraordinary measures, so we couldn't apply it here. As far as limitation is concerned, I understand that I have already answered that question. As regards equality before the law: yes, everyone is to be equal to the law, the constitution seems to say so in the article. 32. [[But they're not, Minister.]] Yeah, I know it's been different, but it should be. Finally, Mr Pampuch, who once again asked me from the speaker about certain things. The issue of driver training rules This is not an issue that we believe may be raised on the occasion of this project, which provides for changes in four legal acts. This lies outside the sphere of this issue, I think, which we are discussing, e.g. increasing penalties for drunk drivers, but this is a completely different act. However, here I will allow myself to disagree with the fact that there is a lack of legislation in this area. As regards the issue of the penalty, the issue of drunk drivers or the withdrawal of allowances, it is always for the court to assess a particular case on the issue of the penalty. We have absolutely nothing to change in this regard. Moreover, in one case, we commit a crime and, as a rule, increase the upper limits of statutory penalties. Of course, in this case we leave to the court, we give a certain degree of freedom - freedom in the sense that very different circumstances are taken into account: evidence, of course the person responsible, his life, etc., which is all that determines the extent of the penalty. In one case, as I said, we commit a crime - but we increase it in the case of drunk drivers - but I tried to justify it. Namely, we meant that under no circumstances should the institution of conditional suspension of the execution of the sentence be applied. These statistics, according to which 30% drunk drivers, i.e. those who have at least 0,5 and who cause an accident resulting in death or severe injury to health, indicate that these people should not really be punished under conditions of freedom. Therefore, we believe that in this case, the reduction rate cannot be. That is why it is often said about this project: stop road pirates. From the point of view of society's expectations, this project simply responds to these expectations. And the last thing you said was that statistics are scary. You didn't say that. Statistics are shocking. Indeed, because it is a matter of applying the rules. The rules are applied as they are applied. In our reflections, in my proposals, in everything I have presented to you today, we are trying to create a system so that there are no such cases as in Prague, as I said, a few months ago, when a person should in no way be in this vehicle - I will remind you that the accident resulted in the death of a girl - or many other tragic accidents. Unfortunately, we face such situations on a daily basis. I think we should join forces of all groups to really seal the system and to eliminate these road pirates, if we all want it to be. safer on Polish roads, and unfortunately it is dangerous. It's bad compared to other countries, and we should change that. This project, I hope, will change that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Penal Code Act and certain other laws contained in print No. 1231 to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act (Print No 1166). I ask Mr Marcin Kierwiński to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u278	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the applicants a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act contained in print No 1166. Ladies and gentlemen! This law in its construction is very simple and readable. We want to amend two existing articles of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Art. 209 and Art. 210. Both relate to the rather difficult responsibilities of prosecutors in matters relating to the opening of the corpse in order to perform the autopsy and excavation of the grave, so-called. Exhumation. A few months ago this topic became a very, very hot topic and was the subject of a very lively and hot, difficult discussion for many people. In this bill, we propose that the prosecutor who conducts the investigation may withdraw from the examination of the corpse when he considers that due to his investigation and other reasons which appear in this investigation, there is no need for a postmortem. The second article deals with a very, very important issue of the possibility of a complaint against the prosecutor's decision concerning the so-called. Exhumation. The right to challenge any decision is one of the constitutional standards and it is strange that, in the case of an exhumation decision, the decision of the prosecution cannot be challenged in its current form. This proposal for an amendment was, of course, created in a very specific situation. We describe it in the explanatory memorandum. Namely, the issue of ordered exhumations of victims of the Smolensk catastrophe. The context is that many families of victims of the Smolensk disaster do not agree with the arbitrary decision of the prosecutor's office, have tried to complain about this decision by way of existing law, unfortunately such a complaint in the current legal situation, as I said, does not exist. It seems strange because the possibility of a complaint should exist. The decision to exhume is a decision very strongly interfering with the feelings of the loved ones, it is a madly traumatic decision for the family of the victim of any catastrophe, certainly also for the families of the victims of the Smolensk catastrophe. It seems reasonable to be able to challenge this arbitrary decision of the prosecution simply to exist. Of course, each of these complaints would be dealt with by the court, but this change would be a way out, an attempt to understand the feelings and emotions of those families of the victims of the Smolensk disaster, which simply did not want to accept exhumations in the case of their loved ones. When we listened to many of the prosecutors currently investigating the Smolensk disaster, there were such opinions that unfortunately these exhumations could not be waived. This is, of course, a question of interpretation - whether they can or can't - because different voices fell on the subject. But it was certainly said by the prosecutors: this is a legal obligation, we have to do it and there is no possibility to challenge this decision, well, we would even like to feel in the situation of families of victims of the Smolensk catastrophe who do not agree to exhumation, but we cannot. This decision is uncomplainable. All the more reason for this bill to go against what the prosecutors said. If such a decision has been taken, it should be possible to appeal it to the decision of the court. I do not want to introduce too much politics here, although we all know that the Smolensk disaster is what separates us very deeply: it divides the political scene and also divides Poles. A lot of politics, a lot of bad emotions came in here, but certainly the arbitrary decision of the prosecution to exhume the bodies of all the victims of the Smolensk catastrophe did not cool off these emotions. She rather warmed up these emotions and made this dispute even hotter, because she interfered in such a painful sphere of life for families. All the more so, it seems that we should apply this constitutional standard in this respect to the fact that it should be possible to appeal from each decision, especially since, as I said, at this stage it is an arbitrary decision of the prosecution. I refer to the issue of families of victims of the Smolensk catastrophe, to what is happening with the Smolensk exhumations, because on the basis of this we have submitted this bill, but it seems that the problem is much, much deeper and that the possibility of bringing this complaint does not exist is an obvious oversight in Polish law. Polish constitutional protection, legal protection is subject to respect and honor for the dead, also subject to feelings of loved ones, and in this context this challenge seems even more legitimate. I hope that, above the divisions in the case that differ us in the issue of the Smolensk disaster, we will also be able to look at some of the families of the victims of the Smolensk disaster, which simply do not agree to these exhumations. These people should also be deeply respected and spared, if they do not wish, the trauma of what happened in Smolensk. That's why it's a bill. I hope it will be widely supported by parliamentary clubs. In this matter, let us really run away from current politics, let us try to listen to the voices of those who have been very experienced by the Smolensk disaster, who have lost loved ones in it, who do not want to experience this trauma again. They should also have the opportunity to comment on this matter and should also be able to appeal against the arbitrary decision of the prosecution. I am, of course, at your disposal if there are any questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u279	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Stanisław Pieta, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the project included in print no. 1166. High Izbo! It is obvious that in the event of death as a result of the crime it is necessary to carry out inspections and opening of the corpse. The prosecutor or the court must be able to order an exhumation. In our view, this project is unjustified, unnecessary, and from the point of view of the purpose of the investigation, from the point of view of the prosecutor, even harmful, because if it actually existed, it would make the investigation more difficult. I therefore request that this project be rejected in its entirety at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u281	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u282	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u283	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure in print No 1166. The applicant's representative has comprehensively explained the reasons justifying the need for the proposed amendments. I have no objections in this regard. Well, as has been pointed out, in the current legal state, the examination and opening of the corpse is carried out when there is a suspicion of a criminal death. Importantly, these actions shall be undertaken in a mandatory manner when the prosecutor unilaterally deems it appropriate. I would like to make it clear here that applicants do not question this means of proof in the draft law and do not intend to delete it from the Penal Code. The proposed amendment aims only to regulate the control of the use of this evidence. The regulation in its current legal state raises a number of legitimate objections. It should therefore be considered appropriate to amend the Article. 209 Code of Criminal Procedure by the addition of § 6. As indicated by the applicant's representative, there was no clear legal basis to withdraw from the examination when the circumstances had changed since the decision to carry out these investigations had been taken. This is an important proposal from the point of view of the practical treatment of pre-trial or judicial proceedings. If, after carrying out other evidence activities, the issue of criminal manslaughter is clarified, it is possible to refrain from carrying out an examination. We are all aware that these activities are always difficult for families and those close to the victim and cause many emotions. The amendment to the article seems to be more relevant. 210 Code of Criminal Procedure. It introduces a review of the decision to carry out an inspection of the corpse. In the current state of law, these quite difficult for loved ones, as I have already mentioned, are not subject to any control. This means that even legitimate arguments, whether those who are close to you or others, will not matter if the prosecutor does not share them. This often leads to many dramatic situations that could simply be avoided. The applicant therefore introduces the possibility to file a complaint against the order of the prosecutor or the court in this regard. This is part of the constitutional principles of the right to challenge decisions as well as the protection of private life. There is no doubt that the activities related to the examination of the corpse affect the private life of people close to the victim, and in particular the family. In this respect, the State should provide legal tools to guarantee citizens the protection of their constitutional rights and freedoms. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club welcomes the proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and requests that the printing be sent to the committee for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u285	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The presented project affects two important spheres. The first is the right of the family to decide whether to deal with the corpses of their loved ones. The second area is the State's obligation to determine the cause of death in the event of a suspicion of a criminal cause. I have no doubt that this second sphere is particularly important. This is the sphere of full autonomy of the prosecutor representing the State in seeking to determine the material truth about the causes of death. This sphere must not be restricted as the pursuit of the cause of death in the event of a crime is the utmost responsibility of the State. The expression of this desire must be the obligation to conduct an opening and an examination of the corpse or exhumation on the part of the guardian of the rule of law, which is the prosecutor. There can be no optionality here, which would cause that, for example. A prosecutor under pressure from the public, under pressure from the media, could abandon his basic duties in order to determine the cause of death. We can't create a breach here for the prosecutors, because it would be particularly dangerous. Such a breach would probably generate in the future probably few, but nevertheless cases where prosecutors from different motivations would abandon the absolute pursuit of determination e.g. The cause of the murder. Let us not follow this path under the dictation of some Smolensk families who do not want to know the causes of the Smolensk tragedy or who seem to know it before the investigation is over. In this sense, the project is a kind of political manifestation of one of the parties to the political dispute surrounding the tragedy. High Izbo, let's not go this way. The criminal process, the State's obligation to determine the cause of death must continue to be categorical and must not be paralyzed by the parties who are complaining - it would stop the process of proceedings, de facto paralyzing criminal proceedings. We are strongly opposed to the whole criminal process, the whole system being overturned because of one case, regardless of the effect it may have on other proceedings in the future. If families of Smolensk victims, some, I emphasize, do not want to know the causes of the catastrophe, do not want to know who lies in the tomb, whether it is definitely close to them, it is their private business. It is the duty of the State to establish the truth in this regard. Therefore, Kukiz15 is in favour of rejecting this political manifesto that disorganizes the essence of criminal proceedings in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u287	Thank you very much. Come, now, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u288	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to add to the Article. 209 provisions enabling the prosecutor to waive the opening of a corpse where he considers that such evidence is no longer justified in the course of the investigation and the possibility of appealing against the provisions of the bodies referred to in Article. 210 k.p.k. The existing constitutional standards, such as the right to court, the right to protection of private life, support the introduction of the proposed rules. The project also envisages a modern change in the addition of in-house control on exhumation. Instance control would eliminate the possibility of subjectively assessing the prosecutor's grounds for exhumation, which is important in the case of the currently politicised prosecutor's office, thereby increasing the constitutional right to protect private life. The Modern Posel Club supports the bill submitted and requests that this draft be referred to the committee responsible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, also the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The draft amendment to the law The Code of Criminal Procedure was created on the basis of proceedings concerning the Smolensk disaster. From the beginning, at the time of the decision to exhume, we have argued that it is necessary, in this process, to respect the will of families wherever possible. On the other hand, I have repeatedly stressed from this speaker that in this House we should avoid making decisions on the basis of such incidental conditions, but I believe that this law is not part of such legislation, because it will actually apply not only to this particular case. We should respect the constitutional right for citizens to have access to court so that their private lives are properly protected. That is why we support this regulation and call for it to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u291	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u292	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present our position on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure in print No 1166. The aim of this project is to protect the interests of those who oppose the autopsy of their loved ones and to protect the worship of the dead. The authors of the project write in the explanatory memorandum that it is about the interests of the families of the victims of the Smolensk catastrophe. The proposed changes are intended to enable families of the dead to take legal action, who refuse to exhume their loved ones. In accordance with the current rules in the event of death as a result of the crime, an examination and opening of the corpse shall be carried out. Depending on the stage of the proceedings, either the court or the prosecutor shall carry out such inspections. In the current state of law, in order to inspect or open a dead body, either the prosecutor or the court may order the removal of the dead from the grave by proceedings. That provision shall not be subject to any appeal. The aim of this project is to add to the article. 209 of the Law of 6 June 1977. The Code of Criminal Procedure allows the prosecutor to waive the opening of a corpse in the event that he considers that such evidence is no longer justified in the course of the investigation and to provide for the possibility of appeal against the provisions of the bodies referred to in Article. 210 k.p.k. Implementation of this amendment to Article. 210 will provide an opportunity to file a complaint against an exhumation order. In addition, the proposed amendment will extend the powers of the prosecutor to withdraw from the opening of the corpse. The applicants argue that existing constitutional standards, such as the right to court, the right to legal protection of private life or, finally, the right to challenge a decision, are in favour of the implementation of the proposed rules. And here it is not possible, in our opinion, to disagree with the objections that the families of the victims of the Smolensk disaster report against another one, carried out many years after the burial of their dead loved ones. The powerlessness of these people and the lack of any instruments to defend their relatives led the authors of the project to attempt to change the law in this regard. Respect for the corpse is an important element of European culture. For these reasons, the legal status of corpses not subject to classic legal qualifications is exceptional. In Polish law the subject of protection remains respect and honor for the remains of the dead and their resting places. In this case, protection is also followed by feelings of loved ones and possible religious feelings. In view of the fact that the process operation in the form of exhumation is contrary to the above-mentioned goods, i.e. in respect for human bodies and remains and in the feelings of loved ones, the possibility should be allowed - which is worth noting: the possibility - to verify the order to remove the corpse from the grave. We have one objection to the project. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 It shall be concluded that, in duly justified cases, the prosecutor or the court may waive the examination or opening of the corpse referred to in paragraph 1. The authors do not specify in any way the concept of justified cases, leaving in this respect the freedom of interpretation to the prosecutor and to the courts. In our appreciation, it is worth trying to clarify the wording in the course of our work. The introduction of arbitrariness in such sensitive and sensitive matter can lead to conflicts. In my opinion, this weak point in the undoubtedly good and necessary project can be improved during committee work. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to appeal for understanding and compassion for the families of the victims of the Smolensk catastrophe. Let us give them the right to decide whether they agree to exhume the bodies of their loved ones, the more so that the purpose of these exhumations is widely questioned and questionable today. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to request that the project be submitted for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u293	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni, takes the last floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure Act is intended to allow legal action by families of the deceased who refuse to exhume the bodies of their loved ones. The intention of the applicants is to respond to the votes of the families of the victims of the Smolensk disaster refusing to perform the re-sections of the corpses of their loved ones. In contrast to the existing provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the proposed amendment allows the prosecutor to refrain from carrying out an inspection and opening of the corpse. Another difference between the proposed and the existing legal situation is to allow a complaint to be lodged for removal from the grave and the effect of such a complaint will be to suspend the execution of the exhumation order. In my view, the proposed change, despite the high expectations of the families of the victims who protest against exhumations, will be able to bear many negative effects. Stopping the inspection and opening of the corpse, only on the basis of the need to determine the cause of death, may lead to a difficulty in investigating and learning the truth about the events. As this project raises a lot of controversy, near Free and Solidarni, it requests that the bill be sent to work in committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u295	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, asks you as the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me quote a passage from last year's open letter from many families of the victims of the Smolensk disaster: "We, our families, have for months been unsuccessful in expressing our opposition to the announcement of this incomprehensible and unwarranted undertaking. I'm sorry, We appeal to the people of power: do not let this act, which our hearts oppose! This draft law is precisely the case - in justified cases it will allow the prosecutor to refrain from carrying out an inspection and opening of the corpse, and the families will be given the opportunity to file a complaint against an exhumation order. We need to make these changes for families that oppose re-exhumation and research. We also owe it to the victims of the tragedy themselves, buried with the highest honor that deserves our respect. I wanted to ask Mr Five - I do not know why he came out - why he disagrees with these arguments and why Law and Justice refuse to provide legal tools for families of Smolensk victims. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u297	Thank you very much, Mrs President, but Mr Five can't really ask questions. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u298	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 209 § 1 is replaced by the following: If there is a suspicion of fatality, an examination and an opening of the corpse shall be carried out subject to § 6. After § 5 The following paragraph shall be added: 6 as follows: In justified cases, the prosecutor or the court may waive the examination or opening of the corpse referred to in paragraph 1. The examination and opening of the corpse as an act of evidence is not mandatory. The judicial authority does not need to carry them out. However, where there is a suspicion that death has occurred as a result of a crime, there are circumstances which could indicate the involvement of third parties in the fatal outcome of the person concerned, the procedural authority shall be required to carry out such acts and shall not derogate from them. The suspicion doesn't have to be justified. The fact that a manslaughter is committed does not have to be largely the same as a manslaughter. These procedural actions are intended to explain the cause and circumstances of death. Failure to do so would make it impossible for the authority to ascertain correctly the facts of the case. The essence is time, too. The sooner this section is conducted, the more we can determine. Here's the question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is to be understood in justified cases? Family objection? The word "possibly" indicates the optional behaviour of the authority. The occurrence of a justified case does not automatically result in withdrawal from the action. The decision is still a matter for the Authority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u299	Thank you very much. The first vote will be taken by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As the draft position of the government is still in consultation, I am pleased to present the draft of the Ministry of Justice. Proposed amendment of the Article. 209 and Art. 210 does not deserve to be taken into account for the following reasons. The purpose of criminal proceedings, one of the objectives, is to ensure that the perpetrator is, detected and held liable and that an innocent person does not take such responsibility. Therefore, it is the duty of the prosecutor to verify the existence of these conditions in the context of Article. 297 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, namely the objectives of the preparatory procedure. Accordingly, where there is a reasonable suspicion of criminal manslaughter, it is the responsibility of the prosecutor to carry out an inspection and to open the corpse. It is not known under what circumstances the prosecutor would have the right to waive this task assigned to both the Article. 2 as well as Art. 297 Code of Criminal Procedure. After all, we are talking about justified cases. We don't know what kind of cases that would be. Is this a question of verification of the grounds of felony manslaughter? After all, the prosecutor checks this condition by making his own decision to investigate and open the corpse. He's already verified it once. In that case, may he resign in duly justified cases? There's no internal logic here. As regards, in turn, the complaint referred to in the draft Article. 210 § 3, nor is it clear what the object of this complaint would be. The object of the complaint is the conditions in Article. 438 and Article 438 439 Code of Criminal Procedure, namely the so-called. relative and absolute causes of appeal, i.e. insulting material law, insulting procedural law. In this case, it is likely that only verification in this complaint of criminal manslaughter could be acceptable, and since so, it is the purpose of the entire criminal proceedings - the criminal manslaughter of death. And that's where the wheel closes. Projectors are investigating an internal contradiction. How can we verify the criminal cause of death in a complaint when this is the purpose of criminal proceedings? The point is that in order to verify this, we need to perform this operation without this action we will not verify it. If the State gives the prosecutor the opportunity to withdraw from this verification, then you deprive him of the possibility to verify this condition in the form of a criminal manslaughter, the type of crime referred to in Article. 148, Art. 155 Code of Criminal Procedure, e.g. Murder or involuntary manslaughter. At this point, These are crimes, the circumstances of which will simply not be possible. Moreover, as a general rule, the act of evidence is not subject to a complaint. Yes, there are situations like. control, recording of conversations where such a complaint is served - Article. 240 Code of Criminal Procedure. However, these are not actions that hold back, these are not complaints that hold back this action. These complaints are not absolutely suspensive. We have in the Code of Criminal Procedure one case of absolute suspense of complaint and this is a situation of complaint against the so-called. Order arrest, that's an extortion of detention as a punishment. And only there does a party's complaint stop the execution of that decision. However, this is not the case in the case of evidence. The party may not interfere with the course of the evidence. Therefore, it is not the authorities of preliminary or judicial proceedings, it is not the prosecutor or the court that would be responsible for the outcome of the trial, but the parties themselves would almost determine the outcome of the process they like. You might as well file complaints in a moment, e.g. stopping searches, complaints holding back many other actions of evidence, which, after all, is taken by the judicial authority for which this authority is responsible, because it has a duty to seek the determination of material truth, the principle of an appropriate response, etc. Therefore, this proposal cannot find ours as the Ministry of Justice's recognition. Finally, the last question. I did not mention the prohibition of evidence, speaking of the fact that the Polish Code of Criminal Procedure does not in principle know complaints about the actions of evidence. Yes, there are exceptions such as those referred to in Article. 240. While we have such a complaint with the prohibition of evidence, e.g. Article 2 180 § 2 - complaint for the hearing of a lawyer. However, there are clear indications: if this action cannot be done in any other way or was aimed at the good of the justice system, then we can only question the lawyer as a witness. However, please note that this action may be replaced by another action, here we will not replace it with anything, they are so-called. unique activities, e.g. removal of the corpse from the grave. This is a classic action unique, irreplaceable nothing, no other evidence. So the parties can throw out an important instrument for determining the criminal liability of the accused by their actions. Therefore, in our recognition this project is not only contrary to the whole principle of criminal liability, the verification of this criminal liability in the course of criminal proceedings, but is also internally contradictory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u301	Thank you very much. The representative of the applicants, please. Mr Marcin Kierwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u302	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In a few votes, here also in the Minister's voice... Maybe. About the art. 209 - that is what the Minister was talking about, that is what Mr Furgo was talking about - we are open here to clarify all the reasons that we can work on. We are aware that this provision may in some way be clarified. On the other hand, Minister, with all due respect, I cannot agree with what you are saying about the article. 210. Because you're making a case like it's a complaint from the victims' families -- in this case, we're talking about a very specific disaster -- or in general, a complaint is holding back all the decisions of the prosecution, and it's like they can't be done. That's not true. This is a complaint which is entitled to a decision of the prosecution, which after all is dealt with by the court. The court will consider and consider in its wisdom whether it is right or wrong. The presentation of an elementary constitutional standard consisting of the fact that an arbitrary decision must or should be subject to an appeal cannot be presented in such a company that this appeal blocks the work of the prosecution, because it is not quite a real picture. If the court considers that this provision was appropriate, it is a removal from the grave, this exhumation will continue to proceed. The Minister used such a wording that the parties themselves would decide on the course of the prosecution. No, Minister, that's a little far-reaching, too. The parties - in this case it is probably hard to say that they are parties - and basically families have the opportunity to file a complaint and only a complaint, nothing more. So if, as I say, I am able to consider that art. 209 needs to be clarified and that we are able to work on it in committee, so attention to the article. 210 seem, however, unreasonable. A good practice and one, as I say, of constitutional standards, is the possibility of filing complaints or appeals against arbitrary decisions of state authorities. This should also be allowed in this situation. I have listened to the speech of a Member representing the Law and Justice, Mr Pieta. Here, too, there was such a voice that the introduction of these changes is blocking the possibilities of the prosecution's work. This is a completely unfounded statement in the context of this amendment proposal. Rather, it is the restoration of an elementary opportunity for individuals to exercise their constitutional rights, by families of victims of the Smolensk catastrophe. However, as I say, I would not focus on this, because I believe that this possibility of appeal should be available in every case of prosecutorial proceedings, especially since it concerns very sensitive issues sensitive to the families of victims, and concerns things that are also constitutionally protected, for example, as I said in my first speech, issues relating to the care of human remains. So here I don't understand those comments that were made by Law and Justice. If this is a matter of open discussion, I think that any comments can be discussed at the committee meeting. I called for it, and I asked her not to sneak into politics because the Smolensk disaster really is deep enough. We too should be able to meet the expectations of those who lost loved ones there, for whom it was a great trauma, and who now refuse to be exhumed. And finally, one last thing. I would like to address Mrs Chrobak, who described this law as a political manifesto, and the families who oppose the issue of exhumation, referred to them as those families who do not want to know the reasons for the death of their loved ones. (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and These are the words that should not be said, because I think that these families, the families of the victims of the Smolensk disaster, have already been severely affected by the trauma of this terrible catastrophe and the statement that these people do not want to know the cause of death of their loved ones, is really unauthorized and very hurtful for these people. The fact that the Civic Platform Club meets the expectations of these families is not a political manifesto is an essential issue of decency, because these families also have the right to defend themselves against the return of this terrible trauma. Please bear in mind that we, too, are in the Polish Parliament the law which is primarily intended to serve people, not such heartless thinking in terms of: the prosecutor must and nothing else. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u303	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A motion for rejection at first reading of the bill was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax (print No 1258). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a government bill amending the Personal Income Tax Act, no. 1258 Sejm printing. The aim of the project is, first, to free taxpayers of income tax on individuals earning income exclusively from payers or pension bodies from making their own tax returns, second, to reduce the costs associated with collecting income tax on individuals PIT by reducing the costs associated with supplying tax authorities with paper copies of statements and handling paper declarations. The proposal proposes changes in the way in which personal income tax is settled for taxable persons earning income exclusively from payers - it is proposed that this possibility of annual income tax settlement of individuals should be extended to personal clearing taxpayers, together with their spouse, in the manner provided for single parents, as well as to pension bodies. This change would be that in the case of taxpayers - pensioners - who do not benefit from any deductions and who wish to transfer 1% the tax payable to a selected public benefit organisation, it is proposed to introduce the possibility of making a declaration to such a taxable person indicating the public benefit organisation to which the taxable person wishes to transfer 1% the tax due. The statement made by the taxpayer, together with information on the income received from the pension authority held by the tax office, would be equivalent to the submission of the tax return. A request for a statement would only be made electronically. The declaration can be made in both paper and electronic form. In order to submit an application or an electronic statement, the taxable person could use either the tax portal or the e-declaration system or the national bank providing electronic services. The application or statement could be signed by the amount of income shown in the tax return for the previous year or by a qualified signature or by a trusted profile, or by means of the authentication data used by the national bank to verify electronically the bank account holder. Introduction changes will not close the way for taxpayers to settle their personal income tax in the currently available way. Taxpayers who do not wish to benefit from the proposed new form of settlement will be able to continue to settle with the tax office by submitting a tax return in paper or electronic form. In view of the fact that 16.5 million taxpayers are obliged to submit a tax return each year, it is proposed that the change introduced in the accounting of personal income tax may already apply to income obtained from 1 January 2016. It is assumed that in 2017 the proposed method for the settlement of personal income tax could benefit up to 25% taxpayers making tax returns on PIT-37 and in subsequent years an increase in the number of persons using this form of settlement would be around 10% per year. The proposed amendment can contribute by eliminating costs to the creation of savings on the part of the public finance sector of about PLN 20 million over a period of 6 years after the changes were made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u305	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding this project enabling tax returns to be drawn up by tax offices. We often talk about a simple tax system that is tax-friendly to taxpayers. It's rare that the previous crews did something about it. This bill is indeed a very good step and we welcome the submission by the Ministry of Finance. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, we read that the complicated structure of the statements and annexes in which reliefs are shown often causes taxpayers problems in their own fulfilment. And so it is, it is true, I can see that every day, also at work in my parliamentary office, where such advice has been put in place for those who want to prepare who want such help. Indeed, those who are willing are not lacking. The Minister briefly presented what this project is and how this system is to work, the way the IT system is to be prepared. The request is to be made by the taxpayer electronically or by the banks. Within 5 days of the date of drawing up the project, i.e. instant mode, there is a reply from the tax office. Then it is possible for the taxpayer to accept or reject it. The lack of any movement until 30 April is also considered an automatic assembly. It will also be possible to make a simple statement by traditional or electronic means on the transfer of 1% where the income comes exclusively from pension bodies. So far, the only option to make it easier for taxpayers was the possibility for employers to testify for payers, but only 420 000 benefited from this in the previous year. employees. It is also easy to make such a request. Basic data will suffice: name, surname, PESEL, organization of public benefit if you want to allocate 1% , telecommunications data, the competent tax office, email, possibly information about reliefs. It is even easier for pensioners, because all you have to do is give your name, PESEL and indicate a possible organisation of public benefit. It is also very valuable that there are as little formalities as possible, difficulties for taxpayers. These benefits are not only for taxpayers, but also for tax authorities, for which this will mean a reduction in costs. The benefits are also on the side of entrepreneurs who are freed from the keeping of paper records, at least in this respect. Indirect benefits are also for public benefit bodies. What else is worth pointing out? The cost of introducing this IT system is small, it is expected to cost about 300,000. PLN, while in terms of profits for the budget, the possibility of obtaining 20 million PLN in 6 years is expected. These are additional revenue from the budget by saving this money. It is also worth noting that in 20 out of 35 OECD countries, a service is available to generate pre-filled tax returns for some taxpayers. As the Minister mentioned, it is assumed that at least 25% of taxpayers will benefit from this year. This could be more than half of Poles. Undoubtedly this is also valuable, and therefore the entry into force of the Act as early as 15 March 2017. What raises our doubts about this project is the issue of criminal liability when the tax office fills in such a request on the part of taxpayers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In conclusion and in conclusion, I would of course like to point out that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of referring the bill to further work. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u307	Thank you, Minister. Welcome to this part of the sitting. I would ask Mrs Bożena Szydłowska to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u308	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club on the government bill amending the Individual Income Tax Act. Dear Mr Schreiber, the proposed changes have been a continuation of the policy pursued by the Civic Platform for simplifying the tax system for years. Among other things, it was used to pre-fulfil PIT by the tax authorities. It's happening, and it's happening. These prints are available on the pages. For this reason, the work aimed at facilitating taxpayers' clearing and reducing the costs of tax collection is gaining acceptance of our club. High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club considers it reasonable to allow taxpayers cleared by the pension authorities to transfer 1% income tax for a public benefit organisation without the need to provide a tax return. We also support solutions that exempt taxpayers from personal income tax, earning income exclusively from payers, including pension authorities, from making their own tax returns. The reduction in the costs of tax offices in connection with the full handling of paper-based tax returns: printing, colportage of forms and the handling of declarations and storage, not only reduces the expenditure of the state budget, but also reduces the cost of maintaining paper-based documents, should have a positive impact on the financial situation of employers. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of the adoption of a government bill and passed it on to further legislative work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u309	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jakub Kulesza will perform on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u310	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will admit that I feel a little uncomfortable when the first time in this term I can speak positively about the project of the finance department, and I do not hide that it is a very pleasant feeling. But moving to the point, as a Kukiz club15 - this substantive opposition, which supports economic freedom and, above all, stands on the citizens' side against the repressive apparatus of the state - we support this project. This is a small step, but in a very good direction, facilitating the lives of citizens, potentially reducing the costs of bureaucracy and, above all, reversing some ill logic. Now this office will have to make a statement, and the citizen will check it out, not the other way around, as is the case today. It is also worth commending the facilitation for pensioners and pensioners. However, I must mention that it is absurd at all to tax pensions themselves, which are, after all, benefits paid by the State, as well as those due to citizens for years of paying their pension contributions. Who even came up with the idea of taxing public transfers and public benefits? This is ridiculous. It's not any income, it's the payment of contributions paid over the years. It's like taxing money from a private savings account from an ATM. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think we can change this absurdity, too. Supporting this project, it is worth noting that, as the sleeper used to say. Stefan Kisielewski, whose name the notabene award is given today at the gala, socialism heroically fights problems unknown in other systems, and in this context it is also necessary to look at this project. The proposed changes, undoubtedly right, are just a drop in the sea of the need for this, in principle, a poorly constructed, complex and, above all, inefficient system such as PIT. As I said, this proposal is a step in the right direction, but a very small step. A real milestone would be the introduction of the project of Poland without PIT, which has been raised by NGOs for years, with the Republican Foundation at the head. Sam as President of the KoLiber Association, which was a partner of the Polish coalition without PIT, I promoted it A few years ago, and I persuaded the civil platform politicians to implement this project. It is all the more worth considering that the Ministry of Finance knows this project. I must even tell you that one of the current Vice-Ministers of Finance is the author of this project, which is why I wonder why the project has not yet been completed. Has the government's priorities changed, or has it lacked courage? As far as courage is concerned, I rather doubt that it was lacking in view of the fact that the government had the courage to introduce 25 years in prison for tax fraud, so all the more so should it have the courage to abolish the PIT system and replace it with a more effective wage fund tax. In conclusion, we support the project, but at the same time we call on the government, we call on the majority coalitions, the governing group, firstly, to abolish the taxation of public transfers, which are pointless, secondly, to introduce a reform of Poland without PIT. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u311	I would ask Mrs Joanna Augustynowska to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The proposed proposal addresses a very important issue, primarily the facilitation of tax settlements and represents a very important step forward. Today the preparation of tax returns is a long and complicated procedure, and taxpayers of personal income tax often have to use professional counsellors to settle their own taxes. Making it easier for these taxpayers to testify is a very good move and the government should be commended for this bill. At the same time, we note that the project was prepared comprehensively, i.e. with a regulation, with appropriate prints. It is a comprehensive project, but we are wondering whether the time since the draft law is due to enter into force, i.e. to some extent since 15 March 2017, is sufficient to inform the recipients of this programme about how to do so, because an appropriate social campaign is needed to disseminate this new method. The second major change introduced by the project is the facilitation of the deduction of 1% tax. In 2015 alone, 617 million zlotys went from this title to a public benefit organisation, mostly to organisations that help children, sick and disabled. These organisations are very important in helping our society, including in carrying out the tasks that belong to the state. Because of the possibility of a 1% write-down the tax benefited only less than half of the taxpayers last year, it is a deformity of the 1% clearance procedure the tax will encourage taxpayers to take advantage of this possibility, and we would like to say, at last. We support this direction of change and stress that reforms are needed that go even further, simplifying the tax system, reducing bureaucracy in tax offices, so that our citizens can live easier. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u313	Thank you very much, Member. And on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska spoke. You're welcome, my fellow Member. It's a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u314	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax. This is print number 1258. The proposed bill amends the Personal Income Tax Act by changing the way income tax is cleared, starting with the 2016 accounts. From the outset, I would like to say that the project is a good, simple and modern proposal that simplifies in many cases the form of settlement of certain income tax taxpayers. The objectives set out here by the government are to reduce the costs, which is obvious, because they are related to the supply of paper copies of statements to tax offices, including the handling of paper declarations, as well as the release of employers from the obligation to keep paper records. Another objective is to free taxpayers who earn their income exclusively from payers from their own tax clearance. And thirdly, this is to enable taxpayers settled by pension authorities to transfer 1% the tax to the organisations concerned without having to submit a tax return on their own. An application to the tax authorities for the settlement of PITs by the tax office will only need to be submitted electronically, via the transmission box of the IT system of the tax administration or through the tax portal or through banks. Of course, this applies to taxpayers who earn their income exclusively from payers. In the application, the taxpayer will be able to indicate the need for deduction from income or tax of child relief and rehabilitation expenses and the transfer of 1% tax to the organisation concerned. On the other hand, taxpayers receiving income exclusively from pension bodies and not benefiting from any deduction, i.e. pensioners and pensioners, will be able to make a declaration to the tax office with a transfer of 1% a tax on the organisation of public benefit. At the same time, which is quite important, this statement can be made in both paper and electronic versions. Tax offices will carry out tax settlements for clearing agents individually, together with their spouse or single parents. Despite the short deadline, because the printing appeared a few days ago, to get acquainted with this project, it should be emphasized that it captures issues fairly comprehensively. In addition, two proposals for regulations of the Minister for Development and Finance concerning the models of statements made by recipients and determining the scope of the data to be included in the application for tax return by the tax office are an integral part of this project. The revised law is to enter into force on 15 March this year. It will therefore be possible to settle the PIT under the new rules in the case of revenue obtained in 2016. And the application to the tax office can be submitted between 15 March and 15 April this year. It's about accounting for this year, of course. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again the good assessment of this project. I think it is a very good proposal to facilitate the tax settlement of many taxpayers, including pensioners. Let me remind you that this group of taxpayers can make a statement even in paper form, not necessarily in electronic form, because this may be a problem. We can expect that the project will reduce the number of errors in accounting, that there will be fewer corrections in declarations and fewer investigations. Tax office employees will not have to carry out mechanical entry of data from the declaration into the computer system and employers will be freed from the obligation to maintain, store paper records. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to say that we are in favour of sending the project to the Committee on Public Finance, where detailed analysis of the activities will be possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] planned for the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u315	Thank you so much for saying that. One Member, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, has entered the list of people who want to ask a question. Is there anyone else? I don't see any calls. So I close the list. Question time - 1 minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think we are all very pleased with the rare compatibility of this draft law in this term of office. My question concerns a matter already outlined in my speech, i.e. a possible criminal liability on the part of taxpayers, where the tax office is filling in such a statement. Can we count on some ministry work in this regard? Is there any way to solve this? Because it seems like it should be settled when it goes further in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u317	I will ask you to answer the question, Mr Leszek Skiba, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Indeed, all efforts to ensure that the taxpayer has confidence in the office so that he can declare that he trusts the office and trusts the preliminary draft tax return prepared by the office seem right. In this respect, we will indeed have talks with Members in order to further analyse this issue, and we will be happy to support any ideas made by Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u319	In the light of the Minister's reply and the absence of further questions, the discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, contained in print No. 1258, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Legislative Commission on the Government draft law on specific rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate issued in violation of law (prints Nos 1056 and 1214). I would like to ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I present on behalf of the Legislative Commission a report on the Government draft law on specific rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate issued in violation of the law. These are 1056 and 1214 prints. As the applicants point out, the aim of the project is to restore the protection of the social interest by removing infringements that occurred in the course of the adoption of decisions based on the so-called provisions. Decree of Bierut, i.e. Decree of 26 October 1945 on the ownership and use of land in the capital city of Warsaw. The Sejm at its 32nd meeting on 13 December pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the draft law to the Legislative Commission for consideration. The committee met on 12 and 18 December. Written opinions for the bill were presented by: Supreme Court, National Chamber of Chambers, National Council of Notarials, National Representation of Local Government Colleges of Appeals. The committee was attended by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Patrick Jak, and the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Marcin Warchoł, together with colleagues, a representative of the Attorney General Tomasz Górski, as well as employees of the Sejm Chancellery, the Registry of the Legislative Commission and the Legislative Office. The result of the committee's work is the draft law included in the report in print no. 1214. The project was presented by the Secretary of State, Patrick Jak. All the regulations of the project have been systematically discussed and adopted at the meetings of the Legislative Commission. The opinions submitted and during the discussions raised doubts as to the appropriateness of the submission, as well as certain institutions and regulations of the project. As a result of the discussion, due to the amendments notified, some of the doubts were eliminated or mitigated. 10 substantive amendments have been adopted and a number of legislative amendments have been adopted. The substantive amendments concerned, inter alia,: create a standard of competence for the prosecutor to keep the case confidential when disclosure of the circumstances could jeopardise the good of the preparatory procedure; resolve doubts as to the competence to safeguard in the form of entries in the perpetual ledger after referral to the authority which issued the final reprivatisation decision; or arrange the grounds for amending the reprivatisation decision. In addition, and this seems important, amendments were adopted that the revenue due to the capital city of Warsaw for the reimbursement of undue benefits would be used to pay compensation and redress to victims of actions so called. Cleaners of tenement houses, and the committee has been given the power to grant such compensation or compensation to these people. Part of the amendments tabled were rejected, mainly on the grounds that they did not meet the objective indicated by the applicant. Their content is in principle in line with the minority proposals presented in print no. 1214. 11 Members voted in favour of the bill, 3 against, no abstentions. After considering the draft law, the Legislative Commission asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law as proposed in the committee's report. According to Art. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm at the request of the applicants, the committee shall submit 14 minority proposals. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen for their cooperation, as well as all the experts and participants in the committee's work. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u321	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Jarosław Krajewski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u322	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law on special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate issued in violation of the law. First of all, I would like to remind you that the reprivatization affair that we are dealing with in Warsaw is the biggest and most expensive one concerning the last ten years of government. It's not just a plot on the street. Chmielna 70, whose value is estimated at over PLN 160 million, but also many other properties, often illegally acquired, on the basis of forged documents. It is also, and even above all, the drama of many Warsaw families who lost their homes overnight because of the greed and greed of dishonest traders of claims. The local government authorities of Warsaw led by President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz cannot or do not want to explain the reprivatization affair, i.e. deal with theft, wild reprivatization. The last actions of the prosecutor's office and the Central Anti-corruption Office confirm that there is now a desire from the state institutions to explain the reprivatization scandal. The allegations made in recent days by the prosecution of the present and former officials of the Warsaw Capital City Office, which he has been directing for 10 years and for which Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, Vice-President of the Civic Platform, is responsible, these recent actions of the judiciary show how gigantic is the scale with which the pathological phenomenon of wild reprivatization is faced in Warsaw. Today one can say that the Warsaw reprivatization, and precisely the reprivatization affair, became a symbol of 10 years of government of the Civic Platform in the capital of Poland, Warsaw. The question arises as to why the current capital authorities cannot deal with the problem of wildlife reprivatization. That question is open. Unfortunately, for the following years the authorities of Warsaw, led by Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, ran away from discussing problems concerning Warsaw reprivatization. We have talked many times about the fact that Mrs Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz is afraid of reprivatization as the devil of holy water, perhaps because Mrs Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz's family is a beneficiary of reprivatization in Warsaw. Eight years of government of the Civic Platform and PSL - let's think about why during these eight years the prosecutor's office, the so-called. independent, I call it rather a disassembled prosecution, did not deal properly with the notices that were sent to it, and were also submitted repeatedly by the residents of reprivatized tenement houses. We have a clear signal that today is the will to explain the reprivatization scandal. Unfortunately, such good will was lacking in the eight years of PO-PSL rule. High Izbo! In a democratic state of law, which is the Republic of Poland, it is the duty of the state authorities to implement the principle of social justice and uphold the rule of law. The subsequent implementation of this principle will be the establishment of a committee, i.e. the adoption of the bill we are discussing. Let me remind you once again that the purpose of the government project is to set up a public administration committee. The task of the committee will be to verify the reprivatisation decisions so far issued and to report to the competent authorities where circumstances are found conducive to the adoption of decisions in breach of law. In front of the committee, we predict the functioning of the social council. This will not only involve and interest a wide range of Warsaw residents in the work of the committee, but will also contribute to the transparency of the examination of the process of Warsaw reprivatization by the committee. High Izbo! As a representative of the people of Warsaw, I believe that the effects of the committee's work will restore the confidence of the inhabitants in the state and local government. The Warsaw people deserve that our city Warsaw, as the capital of Poland, should also become the capital of honesty. High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice I place on my hands [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your Marshal of the Nine Amendments to the bill, 1056 and 1214 prints. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u323	Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I ask Mr Robert Kropiwnicki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u324	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, Mr Krajewski spoke extremely unsubstantiated, and very politically, perhaps because he is not a member of the committee, and he wants very much to be involved in the Warsaw government. If you were at the committee meeting, you could have come, even though you are not a member, you would have listened to the substantive side of this bill, which is not as wonderful as you think. Although there have been about 40 amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau, it has been discussed and corrected for a long time, you are now making nine amendments. We'd love to see what's in there. But it also shows how you act. Maybe your intentions are good, maybe you want to make things better, but this execution is just horribly wrong. Unfortunately, that is also the position of this law. The instincts are maybe good, you want to make things right, you want to give compensation to people, and that's the right thing to do, just the way you want to do it, is completely incompatible with the legal reality in which we live. That's what we're afraid of. This bill is primarily in conflict with the current legal system. By administrative decision, this committee will be strongly involved in the powers of the judiciary. You want to replace the courts here in some way, and I'd rather you go to the prosecutor's office, to the courts, to speak on this matter, not to the public administration, which will be this committee. Because see that most of these decisions end up in administrative courts and it's not known if they're gonna make it. You're gonna make people hope something's gonna be okay, and then you're gonna get one big mess out of it because the mechanism is bad. And I don't know if you want to understand it or not. Look - what we were a little surprised about in the committee, this kind of compensation fund that you're calling in. That's a good idea. Very sensible, because these people are often entitled to compensation or compensation, but there are no amounts given. You don't know how high they're gonna be. Whether it's 100,000 or 200 zlotys you're going to award as this committee. And in addition, you will grant at the expense of Warsaw, not at the expense of the State Treasury, so... [[Correction.]] There's an amendment, you say, about that, right? I will be happy to see these amendments, but please see that the public administration, if it is to make decisions on compensation or redress, should do so at the expense of the Treasury, not at the expense of the public administration. Warsaw, i.e. giving away not your money is always the best. And there is also this article, which you have also surprised us with in the committee, which concerns this, says this - exactly the article. 28, which was reworded in the paragraph. 2 - that: the committee may issue a decision before the evidence referred to in paragraph 1 has been forged. 1 point 1 or commit a crime. So the committee's gonna say there's a crime or a forgery without being established by a court or another authority entitled to it. And this is highly harmful, because the committee, even if it were to put the best experts in there, will not have the instruments to determine whether or not there was a crime. Let me remind you that a crime is when it is a final conviction by a court of law, not an administrative decision. Forgery is also when it is established, and not that the prima facie committee will consider it to be a forgery, because later, when someone wins in court and proves that it was not a forgery, it will be just trouble. So, the intentions are interesting, but the execution of a massacre. That's what we're worried about most of all. We believe that it may arouse people's hopes that they will receive compensation and then it will prove that they will not receive compensation in courts. And once again, politicians are great because they wanted to give people money, and these courts are so bad. In fact, politicians have established a weak law, because please remember that you are very complaining about the courts and so on, but the courts are ruling on the basis of the law that is in this House, and first we need to improve the law that we are making here and then require the courts to do so. So let's improve the law, make good projects, and then we'll discuss them. We are ready to discuss, ready to pay people, we have the will to pay people compensation, compensation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But on the basis of good law. So unfortunately, in connection with these flaws that this project has, I am requesting that it be rejected at second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u325	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask Mr Bartosz Józwiak to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u326	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 relating to the report of the Legislative Commission on the Government draft law on specific rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate issued in violation of law, print No. 1056. The project has already been carefully analysed here many times, so I will try to quote a few things briefly as part of the introduction. This draft law regulates the special procedure for dealing with the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate issued in violation of the law, determines the competent authorities for this procedure and the civil effects of decisions taken in that procedure. The law creates a committee, because an important element of this law is the creation of a committee whose task is also to appear to the competent authorities in the course of proceedings before the committee of the existence of circumstances conducive to the issuing of reprivatisation decisions in violation of the law or the committing of crimes or hindering their disclosure. The Commission has the status of a public-interest body - at least that is the case. The chairman of the committee is to be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the de facto representative of the government, and eight members appointed by the Sejm are to be appointed. Minister... In fact, the rules of procedure of the committee are defined by the Minister of Justice. At the same time, at the committee there is a social council, a nine-member social advisory council, the members of which will also be appointed by the Minister of Justice in agreement with the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. And what is very important, this committee has very great powers, in principle it has all the powers of the committee of inquiry, of the Parliament's committee of inquiry, so in principle, I would say why we should be balancing open doors, since we have an instrument in the form of the possibility of setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to do so, but on the other hand, these powers are also greatly extended, even in such a way that this committee is beginning to have a little bit of quasi-court power, which seems to indicate that it is also entering the powers reserved for the judiciary, e.g. handling of judgments, etc. Without denying the need to take radical steps to resolve the so-called case. wild reprivatisation - the word "reprivatisation" is quite abused here, because it is the lack of reprivatisation that has caused the state that we are dealing with - and at the same time the elimination of the effects of illegal activities, but we must also not forget to maintain such fundamental principles of good law or, I would say, the rule of law. In our view, the project raises serious doubts about its constitutionality. We also have important doubts as to whether the legal effects arising from the activities created in the draft committee will later not be subject to review, or whether they may be affected. These doubts we have show that maybe the courts won't recognize them. Another thing. At the same time, we believe that the committee according to this proposal becomes, as I mentioned, a quasi-court. It is to have a very high level of competence, but it is, in our opinion, lacking the qualities of independence and impartiality. Moreover, it becomes, as indicated here, a purely governmental body, and Parliament's role is kind of secondary, and we have always stood in the position that this audit role, that is to say the running of committees of inquiry, is, however, an element reserved for the Sejm, for Parliament. We really do not see the need to create a very strange, unknown to date and a number of doubts about the creation, while not using existing proven instruments, I will once again remind you, such as the Sejm Committee of Investigation, especially since the draft committee will basically only address a certain selected element, we are only talking about the so-called. wild Warsaw reprivatization, while we all know that this is the tip of the iceberg and it does not really solve the problem. From the beginning, we have made it clear that obvious crimes or crimes at all should be dealt with by the prosecution, which currently seems to have all the tools and at the same time is so controlled by the government that its efficiency can be monitored at all times when it comes to detecting and explaining these cases. And the whole so-called thing. wild reprivatisation, to a full territorial extent, i.e. covering the whole country, as well as political responsibility for irregularities, crimes and the creation of conditions for them, should be addressed by a parliamentary committee of inquiry, which has all the necessary powers to clarify the whole of the problem, and will also address the aspect of political responsibility. We have also made a request for such a committee in the Sejm with other clubs, so far it is in the freezer. Moreover, we also want to mention the chances of solving the so-called problem. wild reprivatisation [[♪ The bell ♪]] they will not be definitively resolved without a reprivatisation bill, and here only and exclusively talk about the committee of inquiry, there is no final solution to these problems. In this situation, it is difficult for us to support such a project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Pudłowski will speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u328	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Minister of Justice! In the jungle of laws that you pass, the law of the jungle grows before our eyes. Unfortunately, it will also apply in unforested areas, and even, you can say, very urbanized, because it concerns reprivatization in Warsaw. Let me remind you of the Minister of Justice: the rule of law in a broad, descriptive sense is compliance with the law. The rule of law is a country in which legal standards are universally respected. We agree with you on the diagnosis. I'm sure it's 40 grand. those who have lost their homes, certainly those who have lost their lives, because they were, in all of us, arouse the sudden need to resolve this subject, to bring before the courts all those who are responsible for it. Like I said before, I don't know what the realtors were after. But what should we be guided by, Minister of Justice, I know. We should be guided by law and justice. Unfair, in my opinion, is the approach in such a way that we create an entity that does not take place in law in Poland. I was hoping that in the committee we could reach a compromise, that you would depart from the assumption that this committee would also be an administrative court, that it would at the same time be a prosecutor's office, that it would be able, like the administrative court, to amend the provisions. It's not necessary. You put us, as I said before, in a very difficult situation, because we, as the Modern One, still in August last year drew attention to this problem. We have noted that it requires public debate. We have noted that the President should be honorably resigned. Of course, she is also the author of many successes in Warsaw and we do not underestimate her role in building Warsaw as a modern, vibrant city, but unfortunately she is involved in this matter. It seemed to us at the time to raise the matter so that we could take care of it. From this point of view, I am very pleased that we are discussing this. On the same day that you proposed to set up a verification committee, I personally urged many Members of the opposition to sign the request for a committee of inquiry. 80 Members have signed. All Members' Clubs signed: Civic Platform, Kukiz.15, Modern, PSL, even European Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen, we give you a chance not only to be fair but also to be righteous. You have the opportunity to relinquish the idea of the verification committee by accepting the request we made for the investigation committee. It is sanctioned in Polish law. He has very broad competences, he can draw attention to matters that are important and, at the same time, as you can see, the prosecution can also act. Recent actions, Minister of Justice, show that the prosecution can find it and, hopefully, the court can judge and judge properly. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Modern Club requests that this project be rejected at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Suit yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u329	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Eugeniusz Trouble to speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Every time in the High House we think about setting up an extra organ, an extracigarette, whether it's a committee of inquiry or, as in this case, a review committee, I think that many of us are wondering why, what's wrong, whether the law or the people who have the right to do so. [[Oh...]] That's the example. We are also aware that this is a breach in the Polish legal system. Can this breach sanctify the purpose for which this commission is called? We come to the conclusion that maybe, because the scale of the irregularity in question is not yet entirely possible for us to assess. Perhaps this verification committee, although many of us are immediately recalling the folk tribunal - because we still have this social advice - if it really works honestly and fairly, it will be able to explain, first of all, how the mechanisms that have worked or failed to work here, and secondly whether there are people directly - not collectively, directly - responsible for what has happened and what abuses have occurred in this area. We realize as the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party that this law is defective, that in at least a few places such association is absolutely emerging, that it violates the Polish legal system. Is it not enough that it is compatible with the Polish constitution? But okay, we'll try, we'll give it a green light. It is only a pity that we rejected this bill, a parliamentary project which concerned the regulation of property rights in the capital city of Warsaw. That's too bad, because this committee isn't gonna solve our problem for the future. She's gonna make us a remanent, she's gonna make us a list of what happened and what this situation looks like today, but for the future, we still don't have a solution. And a hot request, also to the current rulers, to think about this, perhaps based on the work of this committee, how to solve matters for the future, not only in Warsaw, but throughout the country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u331	Thank you very much. And the last statement on behalf of the club, I apologise to Mr Ireneusz Nagroda, the Freedom and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on specific rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate issued in violation of law, prints Nos 1056 and 1214. The subject matter of this draft law is an extremely important issue from the point of view of the public interest and fundamental principles of justice related to the so-called. wild reprivatization of Warsaw real estate. The introduction of a special procedure for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions issued in violation of the law concerning Warsaw real estate is, in fact, the only possible solution, taking into account many years of omissions and at least the silent consent of the Warsaw authorities led by President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz regarding the shameful conduct of the so-called. wild reprivatisation. It is outrageous that those with social trust, those who run the local government, who should take the utmost care of public affairs, the affairs of the local government, the public property have committed theft of this property. Stealing, otherwise it is impossible to name the mechanisms used in this operation, and the links of those involved are similar to the mafia structure. The method for curator or fictitious reactivation of companies could not exist without legal gaps, which apparently someone took care of. In addition, it should be noted that in Warsaw there was a good climate for reprivatization, wild reprivatization. Example of reprivatization of real estate at ul. Noakowskiego 16 in Warsaw was an incentive for others, including criminals who did not go back even before the murder of Mrs. Jolanta Brzeska. The Polish Free and Solidarni Circle condemns the reprivatization of the so-called Warsaw President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz and her colleagues. We expect to settle the consequences of this reprivatization and repair the damage done. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a few days have passed since the loud CBA arrests so-called. Reprivatization sharks: a well-known Warsaw lawyer specializing in reprivatization of Mr. Robert N. and former Deputy Director of Property Management Office at the Warsaw City Hall of Jakub R., and today brought us further revelations. According to information received by the journalist of the Onet portal. Andrzej Gaycy's collected evidence is intended to indicate that the decision-making process is not properly supervised by the officials of the Office for the Management of Real Estates, which was subject to the President of the Capital, and therefore the investigators intend to accuse President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz of failing to fulfil her duties. It is clear from the collected evidence that it is not possible for the President of Warsaw to have no knowledge of the decisions taken at the Warsaw Real Estate Management Office, because the office itself was subordinated directly to the President of Warsaw. Another arrest of the influential officials of the Warsaw City Hall is said to be only a matter of time. Therefore, my words from this speaker at the beginning of December last year, when I referred to the draft reprivatisation bill by Members of the Civic Platform, are confirmed. At the time, I emphasized that the president's interpretations were bizarre and unbelievable, that she did not know what was going on in her office for several years and what her closest associates were doing. Madam President should have resigned a long time ago, but with stubbornness worthy of a better case, she still wants to explain the issue for which she is responsible. In this situation, given that the scale of abuse can be enormous, some say that even PLN 4 billion, or perhaps more, emergency measures are needed. Such an action is the establishment of a reprivatisation committee referred to in the draft law submitted. I hope that the contested law will allow the consequences of wildlife reprivatisation to be cleared and the damage done repaired. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will support the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u333	Thank you very much. 11 people have entered the list of Members wishing to ask questions under this item. Would any of you like to sign up? I'm closing the list without seeing any more willing people. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, will be the first to ask the question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u334	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, for 27 years the Polish state has failed to deal with a proper reprivatization bill. Today we are facing the consequences. We're in a very serious situation. The establishment of a committee in such a controversial way can cause, and I fear it will cause, great chaos. First of all, gentlemen, the constitution. Will such huge powers, which the committee will have, be in line with the basic law? I have a lot of doubts about that, in my opinion, no. What will be the legal consequences of the committee's decisions that will challenge citizens before the courts? It's not just financial, but it's also political. But the worst thing ahead of us is the total lack of confidence of citizens in institutions that should uphold the law. Question, ladies and gentlemen. Why should the committee be more important? [[♪ The bell ♪]] From the Supreme Court? How is it that a committee consisting of people with so-called. The necessary knowledge of real estate management is to decide to suspend judicial proceedings, even before the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u335	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Duda, the Law and Justice Club, will ask further questions. I can't see. Oh, no, I'm sorry. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u336	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the reprivatisation process, there were offences, such as forgery of documents, procedural infringements in the course of the proceedings, including breaches of the social interest, consisting in the deprivation of the rights of persons residing in the property concerned by the reprivatisation proceedings. As a result, there was a transfer of ownership, the establishment of perpetual use of municipal property in relation to persons who had never owned these properties. Also, a number of decisions on the return of real estate in Krakow raises doubts. There isn't a week since there's another victim in my parliamentary office. These people have once again believed in the state. It was not easy for them, because in their sense they were previously horribly harmed by the Polish state. They want justice, just fair conduct. Some of them are former tenants of these properties, which are currently affected by the problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Homelessness. Therefore, the question to the Minister. Is the Ministry planning in the future to include other Polish cities in the above principles of removing the legal consequences of reprivatization decisions issued in violation of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u337	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u338	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Why did you do it so narrowly? Where's the comprehensive reprivatization bill? Why would you want to deal with this so selectively, even though it's such a big deal? Maybe that's why. Why don't you trust your own D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office, which you've already taken full control of? After all, this office can be used in accordance with applicable regulations, and you are doing some sort of central inspection of the labour and peasant, some folk army that will now walk around Warsaw and do whatever it pleases. Where are the courts? After all, you can reform what you want to do - you have a prosecutor's office, you can make a committee of inquiry, which is... [[Some of them are in Media Markt.]] You're welcome, sir. [[You're welcome.]] You can make a committee of inquiry that's set up in the Constitution. Why don't you do it? Why are you as usual following the crap? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u339	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The so-called wild reprivatization in Warsaw affected Warsawians, touched tens of thousands of Warsaw residents who were deprived of their homes, and finally touched former owners who could not fulfil their claims under simple procedures. Such a complicated procedure forced them de facto to sell their claims for a small amount. This needs to be changed, this needs to be explained, this needs to be stopped, but it needs to be done, Minister, in a legal manner, it needs to be done in a manner consistent with the basic law. It cannot compensate for this injury account, it cannot clear this injury account of the authority to be the court, the prosecutor's office and the administration in one. There are legal measures available today that can be used [[♪ The bell ♪]] Move. It is a committee of inquiry, and it is also a prosecutor's office and courts. I hope that after these spectacular arrests there will also be appropriate reactions... [[What spectacular?]] ...the authorities and finally the judgments of the courts that will finally solve this case. Minister, the main reason for reprivatization problems in Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u341	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u342	...is the lack of a reprivatization bill, hence my question, when will you prepare such a comprehensive bill. Let me remind you that we can boast of one good solution in this regard, this is a reprivatization law concerning the property of Zabuża. It's a good pattern and it's worth using. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u343	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is hard to believe that reprivatization processes in the area of the city of Warsaw have been accompanied in recent years by so many pathologies: transfer of property to unauthorised persons, throwing people entitled to live in apartments or finally managing compensation in huge amounts. It's all in the majesty of the law, with the involvement of the courts. A group of people has gained a lot of wealth by buying back millions of claims worth nothing. Everything at the expense of the victims of individuals, often using their difficult material situation or the difficult situation of heirs and at the expense of the social interest. It is therefore pleased that the Government of Law and Justice presents a solution to this pathology that has taken place in recent years, the pathology that is taking place directly under the lighthouses, so as not to say an umbrella to the authorities of the capital. My question: Is it possible to estimate how many unfair beneficiaries of the processes [[♪ The bell ♪]] reprivatizations in Warsaw and how many honest people have experienced the drama of expropriation and redemption of priceless claims due to the actions of smart people and criminals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u345	Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Club Law and Justice. Here you go, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the very important problem of solving the problem of wildlife reprivatisation. People come to my parliamentary office almost every day, who are in this difficult situation, that they live in properties for which claims are made, or who have lost their homes because of claims. If we are talking about the fact that the establishment of this committee is a particular action by the institutions of the State, we must agree with this because we are dealing with a particular issue. This committee set up by the Sejm will be a great complement to the actions of the prosecution and the Central Anti-corruption Office. We know that more than 4 000 have been taken since 1990. reprivatisation decisions. I know how big expectations are from the inhabitants of Warsaw. I'd like to ask the Minister how much time the Ministry of Justice will need. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to prepare a seat, a place where the committee will be able to carefully examine all the threads of Warsaw's reprivatization, and how much time do you need to recruit for this special committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u347	Mr Piotr Uściński, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u348	Respected Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, Mr Pudłowski, Mr Pudłowski, who presented the Modern position, said that the law must be fair and fair, that we must act in a fair and just way. I have a question for the Minister whether he gives the guarantee that, in the case of this law, according to which we want to set up a review committee, the law will be effective and justice will finally be compensated. Thank you very much. [[It's still gonna be solidarity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u349	Paweł Lisiecki, club Law and Justice, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u350	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have heard here allegations about the project, various kinds of allegations. The problem is, however, that administrative decisions made in the case of return of tenements were issued in violation of the law, even of the law, which here, among others, was issued. Mr Kropiwnicki would like to improve. At the time, we had a situation where the president was returning the property, and the D.A.'s office resigned from prosecuting criminals, and the courts were really pinning it all on. In such a situation there may have been a rule of law in Poland, but it had little to do with justice. Question: "How long will the committee referred to in the bill have to work on solving the mystery of Warsaw's reprivatisation in the opinion of the Minister?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u351	Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First, I'm going to point out that we're against this committee. Not only because it is a non-constitutional body, but also because there are a number of minor errors, which you did not want to accept in the Legislative Commission at first reading. There were dozens of amendments tabled by the opposition and by the Legislative Bureau. They were all rejected. Here's the kind of adjustments. In the first project, or rather the presentation of the project, there was information that there would be four seats for the opposition in the appointed committee. It is also stated in the explanatory memorandum that there will be room for opposition. Unfortunately, there is no such provision in any provision of this law. At the first reading of this proposal in the Legislative Commission, I tabled an amendment to supplement the law on this provision. It was rejected, like all other amendments, although by rejecting it, you assured me that the opposition would have its place in the committee you planned, known as the verification committee. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I'm asking you why you don't want to include the rules guaranteeing the opposition these places in the bill. Let me remind you that such records have been introduced in the Act on the National Media Council. The content of our amendment corresponds to the content of the National Media Council Act. Isn't the absence of this record leaving an emergency exit in a situation that may not be your intention? I ask you to answer this question, because rationally, the absence of this provision while declaring that you want to do this is simply not justified. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u353	Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Apart from the fact that this bill concerns the creation of a national court which is not in accordance with the Constitution, it is, of course, also weak in legislation. The question, therefore, is why there is no appeal body in the draft law against the decision of the committee. Will it even be possible for the committee to reconsider its decision? Are the members of the committee to reconsider this? Are those individuals who have made this decision to re-examine their own decision, and what does that make sense? I assume that you are working very comprehensively, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister when there will be a comprehensive reprivatization bill and now, above all, what are the assumptions for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u356	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The question of the key that still happens here appears, without an answer, in the vacuum: Why? Why are you in favour of a people's judgment? Why do you call something that, in your opinion, is unconstitutional? Why are you doing this so fast, in a hurry and so on?? I think we should also answer with a question, perhaps rhetorical: why aren't you with us? Why is it possible to get this impression - you support thieves, rascals, people who robbed this country still stealing from it? Why don't you come with us? Why do you not want to get Polish citizens back to a basic sense of justice, an elementary sense that the state will not disappoint them and that their country is with them? Why don't you want to be when you're supposed to be? And those arguments you're making are really worth laughing at. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's unthinkable that you're still able in this case, when it's all so obvious, to defend these people. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u357	And the question? [[Why?]] But it's not for Members, it's for applicants or rapporteurs... Mr President, this is not the formula and this is not the stage. And now the question will be asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You're welcome. [[Why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You say you want the committee to act quickly. Then why do you want to go to trial in every case? I mean, it's gonna take longer than that. Administrative authorities don't need a hearing, and this committee will always need a hearing. Second question. Why do you want the committee to order the court to enter in the eternal book? How in your opinion can an administration order independent courts to do anything? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u359	And one last question. Mr Ireneusz Gains, near Free and Solidarnia. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Statistically speaking, a civil trial or a criminal trial - because here we can also deal with criminal threads - with complex legal status it may take several years or even several years. This is the kind of situation I'm dealing with, and there are voters coming to me, to the parliamentary office. Given the scale of this problem, this phenomenon of wild reprivatization of Warsaw real estate, if we accept here... Mr Krajewski quoted the number of 4 000. reprivatisation decisions. If we accept that at least half of these decisions are affected by a legal defect, is that not the argument that this reprivatization committee should be called for because of the failure of the Polish justice system? [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I would also like the Minister to address any doubts as to the unconstitutionality of such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u361	Thank you very much. With this question, we have exhausted the list of Members who have signed up for the vote. I would therefore ask you to take the floor and answer the 13 questions raised by the Minister, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Patrick Jaki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u362	Dear Marshal! High Seym! To answer your questions, I will start with the last question, Mr Profiti, about the unconstitutionality of this solution. Once again, I would like to stress that we are convinced that this is not the case. To confirm this, we have a written, very rich opinion of Professor Grabowska about... [[The Constitutional Tribunal.]] ...each of the elements of this law, in which the Professor clearly states that this law is in accordance with the Constitution. But it is also far from our views that Prof. Łętowska says the same in press interviews. Therefore, if we now want to weigh all the arguments that fall in the context of the unconstitutionality of this solution, i.e. that the committee is to be a court - because this is the most frequently emerging argument - which is to combine... that it would be to upset this principle of check and balance of the three authorities, I would like to say that it absolutely does not apply, because the committee will have all the powers that the various institutions have in administrative proceedings. There will be no special authority here, it will be exactly the same powers that the organ has today. So when we talk about reprivatization, it's like... Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz... It's hard for her to investigate the case she's in through the community, through the accused society. This committee will have the right to resume proceedings, but the same right has the authority, only the problem is that it has not exercised that right. Therefore, I have no doubt that the committee is absolutely in the Polish legal order, every hour we have already proved during the committee work. Mrs Stępień asked why the trial should be held if we want to act when we say that the committee is to act quickly. That is why, honourable Member, we want to be in the Polish legal order, and because the committee will be a central administrative body and issue an administrative decision, it is... Taking such an administrative decision has its procedures. There has to be a trial, there has to be evidence. And the committee will work in exactly the same way as the one where the administrative authorities work. That's why this trial is here. Mrs Duda asked when other cities were coming. It already depends on Parliament's decision, but if this tool proves effective - and I believe it will - then derivatives of instruments can also be used in similar situations in another city. But obviously, this committee couldn't take care of everything for once if she wanted to take care of it properly. Mr Kobyliński of Modernity asked why it was not common courts. It is precisely because common courts are also one of the defendants in this case and it is difficult for them to investigate their actions. There's an old rule that says you can't be a judge on your own. There wouldn't be a reprivatization scandal if it wasn't for the decisions of the courts that set up curators for 140-year-olds. And if the common courts were to be effective in this respect, neither I nor the State of Modernity would have to act on reprivatisation. Unfortunately, the common courts have failed in this case for many years. That is why new solutions are needed. And the question is why we don't trust is probably rhetorical, but I'm going to answer it, why we don't trust the DA's office to explain it. Of course we have confidence in the D.A.'s office, but as I emphasized, these are two different things. What else is criminal responsibility and what else are administrative proceedings. Even if the prosecutor's office is very effective, as it has done so far, she has conducted criminal proceedings, after all, what are the inhabitants of Warsaw waiting for? Not only to settle the guilty but also to change administrative decisions. The D.A. can't do that. The Prosecutor shall not have the power to resume administrative proceedings or to amend administrative decisions. [[It's as obvious as the sun.]] Yes, sir. That is why we are proposing this second solution - to help people quickly, because people expect us to. Another question, Mr Szulowski - I apologize if I wrote it wrong - asked how many people concerned reprivatisation in Warsaw. According to the data we have, the reprivatization concerned over 4,000. Real estate. The exact number of people who were subject to this reprivatisation is not able to give you, but from the well-known media data it appears that in Warsaw alone it can be up to 40 thousand. persons injured as a result of this reprivatisation. This is a very large number without a doubt. Mr Krajewski asked how much time we needed to prepare the work of the committee. What I'm trying to say is that these jobs are already going on. As far as the search for infrastructure is concerned, expert and administrative support is concerned, there are currently widespread recruitments. Therefore, I hope that if there are no problems in the legislative process, the committee will be able to start its work in May. Mr Uściński asked if I gave a guarantee that this is a new solution that we are proposing to you will succeed. Of course, I don't have a professional ability and I can't guarantee you 100% that this is going to work, but I want to tell you that this tool gives you a very strong hope that it can work. So the question is, what do we have to lose if there are so many people waiting and saying, "Listen, you're losing, you have to do something." You must take extraordinary action. We do not want to be passive and we are proposing this to you. Mr Lisiecki asked how much the committee would work. In the provisions of the Act we write that as much as it will need to be done, but we hope that we will solve these problems quickly, which have grown as a result of reprivatisation, even because administrative proceedings have their way and this is a much faster procedure than common courts. Mrs Wróblewska asked how many seats in the committee would be allocated to the opposition. As I declared, and I want to declare it again, this is the matter that should be regulated by the regulations. On the other hand, I have no doubt that every opposition club should have one representative on this committee. [[Always less.]] It's obvious. It's obvious, once again I confirm it from this podium. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the question that keeps popping up is why not the committee of inquiry. Here, in my opinion, the answer is obvious. The committee of inquiry has fewer powers. The committee investigating your work - a long job that can last, all hearings can last for years - ends with a report, and if you go to Warsaw and ask people what they expect, they will say: "We expect a decision, we expect justice." We expect that where we can do this, these tenements will end up in the right hands. Unfortunately, the committee of inquiry, even if we say what we want here, does not have such powers, and the institution we propose to you has. This institution will be able to take such decisions, it will be able to decide on the return of the property if possible, and if this property has already been acquired by a third party in the so-called. in good faith, this committee will have the opportunity to designate the so-called. compensation from people who have wrongly earned, often large millions, to reprivatise. If this compensation is determined by the Commission, the funds obtained as a result of the Commission's activities will immediately be allocated to victims of wildlife reprivatisation. If you go and ask the Warsaw people what they are waiting for, in my opinion, I have a deep conviction, they are waiting for concrete decisions, not for further strong discussions in the Sejm within the committee of inquiry. They say: 'Enough of these discussions, these discussions are already extensive.' We now want concrete decisions from you because we have been waiting too long. I therefore ask you once again to consider this and support this committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u363	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Legislative Commission in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 8 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Two statements have been made in writing by Mr Waldemar Andzel and Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, while two Members will want to make a statement from the Parliamentary Speaker. Therefore, since I don't see anyone else coming forward, I find the list closed. Please, Mr Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club, and then Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u364	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On 22 January 2017, a well-known and respected ambassador of the inter-legitimate culture of Krystyna Górska, connected with the 52nd anniversary of her artistic creative work, took place in the Centre for Cultural Animation of Culture. This event can certainly be seen as a celebration of inter-legitimate culture. The ceremony was attended by fine guests who worked with the birthday girl for years. Ms Krystyna Górska was born 85 years ago, on 29 March 1932 in Wronki. For the local community, it is a living culture, a living book and a testimony to the birth and development of the Municipal Cultural House in Międzychodzie, today the Centre for Cultural Animation. Ms Krystyna Górska has been operating since 1965 in inter-legitimate culture. She coordinated the entire cultural and educational work in the field until the physical uprising, building an object of an interlegated cultural house. Infinitely devoted to theatrical, social and cultural activities, she served as an instructor in the district's cultural center in the district of Międzychodzki. Thanks to her training and promotion of theatre culture in the 1980s, children's and puppet theaters flourished. In total, 30 theatres were created in the municipality of Międzychod, which were directed, instructed and supported by Mrs Krystyna. Theatrical bands were known and admired throughout the Gorzów Voivodeship, as well as beyond its borders. Krystyna Górska devoted her life to spreading culture in the smallest corners of the district. She founded children's theatres in rural clubs, conducted numerous trainings for hosts so-called. cultural asset from rural cultural and educational institutions, as well as training and practical activities for cultural and educational workers from the Gorzów district. She wrote and supplied material, club scenarios and repertoire materials at the same time 53 clubs in the field. In their history theaters gathered a very large number of cups, awards, congratulations letters and recognition diplomas. Not only bands, but also Mrs Krystyna were rewarded with money prizes, diplomas of recognition and decorations, among others. with a monetary award of the Minister of Culture of the Third degree, an honorary badge of the Child's Friend, an honorary badge of merit for the land between the legs, an honorary badge of merit for the Gorzów Voivodeship, a badge of the Deserved Cultural Actor, a Bachelor's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland, a ZHP badge of the Child, a gold badge of the TPD Department and an honorary diploma of the PCK for showing their heart to people in need. Despite her retirement in 1992, she continued to run the field and theatre department of the city's cultural centre for the municipalities of Miedzichowo, Pszczew and Przytoczna. Miss Krystyna Górska, apart from her work to spread culture, loved children. With them in mind, she founded a branch of the Society of Friends of Children in the Inter-East, which continues to operate dynamically until today. The Children's Friends' Society, TPD, is an association, a non-governmental organization operating public benefit for children in the form of volunteering. In the long term of its activity - in 2 years' time the Society of Friends Children in Międzychodzi will celebrate 60 years of existence and in Poland 100 years - it has been sacrificial for children, especially children requiring help, who have fought for the welfare of children who are at risk of alcohol, drugs, nicotine, sick and disabled. TPD supports parents, local government and state authorities in fulfilling their responsibilities towards children and young people. It has in its work a major work mainly thanks to donors and people of good will, who are not indifferent to the fate and welfare of our children. In making this statement, I would like to express my great respect for Mrs Krystyna Górska for her passion and her heart in the work of inter-legitimate society. You've written yourself in gold letters in our hearts. I wish you a lot of health and prosperity. With respect, Zbigniew Ajchler, Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u365	Thank you very much. Today, Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club, will make a final declaration. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u366	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I speak on behalf of 50 employees of PRB Maszbud from Odolanów. These people carry out their work as subcontractors, modernising the railway line in the vicinity of Warsaw and Poznań. Since November 2016, no remuneration has been paid. Paradoxically, in all this is not the employer, the company Maszbud, but - as a result of the knowledge I currently have - the company Trakcja PRKiI SA with its registered office in Warsaw at ul. Gold. I repeat once again that from the knowledge I have, this company does not pay the sums due in accordance with the contract by subcontracting the work on the railway lines. I wanted to, High Izbo, check that information at the source, see if that's true. Unfortunately, until today, and it is already several days, I have not received a reply to the email which I sent as a Member to the Polish Sejm to Trakcja SA. Therefore, I declare, because the management of this company probably does not know that not paying wages is a sin calling for vengeance to heaven. Do you realize that you are putting the people closest to you in a situation that is not enviable? I would also like to declare that in the next few days I will ask Polish Railway Lines SA for possible control of the performance of the contract, to the State Labour Inspection to take control actions in Trakcja PRKiI SA and, if necessary, to law enforcement authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u367	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this parliamentary statement. We have concluded on this point the making of the Members' statements today.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u368	Statement on the 150th anniversary of the birth of General Mariusz Zaruski. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the last day of January, we celebrated the 150th anniversary of the birth of the outstanding individual - General Mariusz Zaruski. He was a versatile man: military, taternik, pioneer of Polish sailing, painter, rescuer, scout instructor of ZHP and founder of the Tatra Volunteer Rescue Service. Mariusz Zaruski was born on January 31, 1867 in Podol. He studied at a private school and later in the Russian middle school in Kamieniec Podolski, where he was taken under the care of a conspiracy uncle. In 1885. Zaruski graduated and started his math and physical studies at the University of Odessa. That's when he first met the sea. First he fixed them on the canvas, and he decided to join the School of Fine Arts, and then during the holiday he would enlist on ships and make exotic trips. In 1894 he was sent to Archangielska for patriotic activities. He graduated from Maritime School there and got permission to travel. After the mission, he returned to Odessa, where he got married and then went to Cracow and graduated from the Academy of Fine Arts. When his wife got sick, he moved to Zakopane and took care of the training of guides, the setting of trails, as well as the work in the TOPR, which he initiated the uprising and the first warden. When World War I broke out, Zaruski was a well-known activist and publicist. From 1914 to July 1917 served in 1. The U.S. Regiment. Since November 1918, he has been his commander for almost three years. He was also the leader of the war in 1920. He also got the task of forming 11. The U.S. Regiment and the command of the U.S. Army. He was awarded the Order of the Virtuti Militari V class and several times with the Cross of Valiant Struggles. He ended his military career as Brigadier General and Adjutant of President Stanisław Wojciechowski in 1923 and 1925. He was rested before the turn of May. In his retirement he devoted himself completely to propaganda and organizational activity in order for Poles to understand the value of the sea. He organized the Yacht Club of Poland and was the creator of the National Fleet Committee. In the 1930s, the general was a leading figure in Polish sailing, the creator of many initiatives and undisputed authority. In August 1939 he was about to embark on a cruise, but he did not want to leave his homeland in need. He didn't want to save himself, the crew and the ship, he chose to stay at the station. That's why he was arrested by the NKVD. He fell to hell and died in 1941 away from the country, in the prison of the NKVD in the city of Kherson. In 1997 he was decorated posthumously with the Great Order of Rebirth of Poland. In the same year, they were brought to Poland and placed in the Old Cemetery in Zakopane a urn with land from 10 places of the cemetery in Kherson (the exact burial site is unknown). In April 2001, on the 60th anniversary of the General's death, a symbolic sea funeral was organized. The earth with the ashes of Mariusz Zaruski was sprinkled from the deck of the STS. General Zaruski to the water in the Gulf of Gdansk, on the approach to Gdynia - the home port of the Black Vistula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u369	Statement on the increasing phenomenon of e-addiction. Dear Marshal! In today's statement, I would like to draw attention to the growing scale of e-dependence. Along with technological progress and all the facilities that we make for digitalisation, we can encounter a flaw in e-addictment. This phenomenon is progressing from year to year, as more and more of our vital functions are moving to the cyber world. The dependence on new technologies and the Internet, especially among young people, is becoming increasingly noticeable and noticeable. This is confirmed by the results of public opinion studies and scientific studies. Many people at a young age can no longer imagine living without being on-line, which often does not end only by using a mobile phone or belonging to a social network. The recent control of the Supreme Audit Chamber has shown that a noticeable failure in the fight against e-addiction is the lack of guidance on how to identify and diagnose abuse of electronic media by children and young people and on how to address e-addiction. In the report, NIK also pointed out that schools or psychology and pedagogical clinics, which were the first individuals to help parents see and solve the problem of abuse of electronic media, did not make a reliable diagnosis of the school environment for abuse by students of electronic media and thus did not have information about the number of students affected by the problem. Given the scale of the progressing phenomenon, I ask the High House to take urgent action that will contribute to better communication and later cooperation, which will counter e-dependence. Finally, the final remark in the NIK report is very important, indicating the need to provide standardised diagnostic tools for psychological and pedagogical counselling in the field of diagnosing e-dependence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-08-sejm-35-1.u370	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 9 February 2017, by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 18 min 54]]
