ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u1	High Senate, resume your session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to agenda item 18: Act amending certain laws in order to increase citizens' participation in the selection, operation and control of certain public bodies. I would like to remind you that a discussion was opened before the session was adjourned. Ladies and gentlemen, please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede. Are you a senator? There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u2	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to a number of issues relating to the amended legislation, which, as the title says, The aim is to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities, issues which were not or only to a small extent addressed at the joint committee meeting. At the beginning, I would like to refer to the proposals for changes in the scope of local laws, i.e. the amendment of the laws on local government, district government and voivodship. The mandatory introduction of the civil budget, which is to be one of the forms of consultation with residents at all levels of local government, is definitely important for citizens. It should be stressed that this solution, which brings with it a real strengthening of the voice of citizens, is being introduced for the first time. Thanks to this change, residents will be able to participate directly in the process of selecting tasks to be carried out and the mandatory body will have to carry them out. The practice used so far only in selected municipalities becomes this just a good citizen's practice guaranteed by law. The proposed amendment introduces an obligation to broadcast, record and publish recordings of sessions of rads and seymists. Many local governments already use this type of solution to a large extent, but not all. Now it will become a duty to apply them. This is a further step towards improving communication between bodies representing and residents of specific regions. Another proposed, positive change will be the obligation to record and make public the list of votes of the councillors. From the next term of office, every resident will be able to find out how the councilman of his commune, district or sejm of the voivodship voted in important matters for local communities. This is a very important element of this amendment, which in my opinion will increase the transparency of local authorities. Society, voters have the right to know how they work, how they vote and what resolutions They're supported by councillors. From now on, voting lists of councillors will be immediately made public on the websites of the relevant local authorities. In my view, the proposed amendment responds to the initiative of communities and residents. Further proposals are also reflected in this, such as the establishment of complaints, requests and petitions in the local government, which will deal with complaints about the actions of executives or relevant organisational units, as well as applications and petitions made by residents. The Act also introduces an institution of a civic initiative of resolution, which will have a group of residents of the commune, district or voivodeship respectively. Draft resolutions to be tabled within it will have to be placed on the agenda of the forthcoming session no later than 3 months after the submission of the draft. The Committee will have the right to identify the persons who will be entitled to represent the Committee during the work on the project. In conclusion, I would like to stress that many of the local issues that concern the inhabitants during their term of office, and which are not always comfortable for local authorities, will have to be the subject of a public debate during the session. To a large extent, the proposed solutions will strengthen the role of the councillors by granting them control powers and by regulating the statutory interpellations and questions of the councillors. From now on, the councillor, in accordance with his control powers, will be entitled to obtain information and materials, to inspect the activities of the authorities of the local government to which he was elected, and his subordinates, while his interpelations and inquiries will be made public by means of immediate publication on the websites of the competent local authority, and the mayor, the mayor, the president of the city, the governor, the Marshal of the voivodeship or the person appointed by them will have 14 days from the date of their receipt of the reply. A very interesting solution will also be the annual debate on the state of self-government combined with the granting of a vote of confidence to the executive body. The solution involves considering a report including a summary of the activities of the executive body in the previous year, in particular the implementation of policies, programmes, strategies, resolutions and the civil budget. A public debate would be held on the report which the authority would have to submit by 31 May, in which citizens could also participate. In the event of a failure to give the municipality a vote of confidence to the bountymaster in the following two years, the municipality council could adopt a resolution on the holding of a referendum and, in the case of a report on the state of the county or voivodeship, not giving a vote of confidence to the board would be tantamount to a request for its cancellation. In the Seym of the Voivodship, the role of the opposition is also strengthened by the appointment of the chairman of the audit committee to the representative of the largest opposition club. This is one of the many proposals contained in the proposed amendment, which will really contribute to ensuring a greater participation of the local community in the functioning of their local government, which will significantly increase the responsibility for the local community in which they live. These procedures are part of the policy of creating patterns of involvement in society and strengthening civil society attitudes in local communities. Further changes to which I would like to address are changes to the amendment of the Act At the meeting of the panel, the question of maintaining the correspondence vote was the dominant issue. This was especially important for people with disabilities, but I also know that in the case of non-government elections it is also important for the environment of our Polish people living abroad. I am therefore pleased that this form of vote for disabled people is likely to be maintained and that the position represented by many Senators from the Law and Justice environment, including myself or by you, Professor Jan Żaryn, will be taken into account. Yesterday, Senator Marek Pęk, on behalf of our club, made an appropriate amendment in this regard. I will not go back to the motives behind the proposed amendments to the electoral code. We know the situation of the local elections in 2014, when due to the failure of the IT system for almost two weeks since the election day we could not know the official results, and the results of the elections to the provincial sejmists and district councils after this period showed that one in five voters cast an invalid vote. There were circles in which there were over 40% invalid votes. Whatever the circumstances, this illustrates the need for this amendment, which aims to eliminate all possible irregularities and counterfeiting. The most important changes proposed in this project concern, inter alia, the abolition of two-day elections. Already in 2011, the Constitutional Tribunal declared two-day elections to the Sejm, the Senate and the President incompatible with the Constitution. Abolishing them also in the local elections will reduce the risk of irregularities and counterfeiting. The establishment of two regional electoral committees will also be an important factor. From now on, this second additional committee, which will be composed of rested and unpaid members, will proceed to the vote counting procedure. It is also important to include a minimum of 2/3 of the committee's membership in the premises. A new solution will also be the transmission from the polling station on the day of the vote. There will also be many other interesting solutions that we will probably be discussing here. Of course, no record will replace efficient and honest electoral committees, invaluable men of confidence, whose position we are strengthening in this project, or the actions of this great social movement for the transparency of elections, which became the Election Control Movement. At the end of my speech, I would also like to raise the issue of changes in the choice of authorities. The proposed solutions include: two-channel officials, mayors and city presidents, extending the term of office of local governments to five years and issues related to one-mandate districts in municipalities. I would particularly like to address the last of these issues. As we know, every solution has its drawbacks and advantages. The same is true for one-mandate districts in municipal council elections. The original proposal of the parliamentary project included the assumptions of the total abolition of one-mandate electoral districts, but after the amendments JOW were retained in the elections to the municipal councils up to 20,000 inhabitants. Personally, I am not in favour of maintaining them because they do not guarantee the representation of individual local electoral committees in the body constituting them. I am talking about local committees, because it is not really political parties that dominate local elections at municipal level, especially in municipalities of up to 20,000 inhabitants. If there is a single-mandate electoral district in a small community, there may be situations in which only a dozen percent of voters will elect a councilman and the rest of the voters will have neither their direct representative nor their indirect representative selected from the list of committees concerned. This situation, although governed by law, seems pathological in my view. As a result of the compromise, the proposed amendment provides for the maintenance of JOW in municipalities of up to 20,000 inhabitants. Finally, I would like to thank the Members who initiated this project very warmly and congratulate them on proposing many interesting solutions. In my view, it will have a positive impact on promoting greater participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities. These are changes that cannot be assessed differently than as pro-Citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u3	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Żaryn. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! However, I would like to return once again, because yesterday it was discussed, to this point of reference, which for many of us is simply it, because it is a collective Polish experience, i.e. extraordinary local elections of 2014. I was then one of many, many thousands of members, co-founders of the Election Control Movement. Then we arrived in Częstochowa for the convention which organized this Election Control Movement. There were many thousands of people there, many of whom spoke about what we thought was a clear forgery in those 2014 elections. It was a forgery that was legitimized because none of the rulers of that time made such a gesture in view of a large part of the public's opinion in order to deny the sense of these choices and to carry them out again. This was of great importance from the point of view of the electorate, which felt betrayed by the structures of the Polish state, by the supposedly law-abiding state, and actually not standing at the level of the task, i.e. undoubtedly the electorate of Law and Justice. In this electorate we had the conviction that it had become a double evil thing: not only on an ongoing basis evil, because numerous abuses have been committed, but also evil because this evil will have its far-reaching consequences in terms of the functioning of democracy in Poland, because in fact it was not known who among elected local authorities has the right to represent the community and the region of Poland, and who de facto does not have such legitimacy because it was chosen wrongly. Of course, as you all remember and know, it was mainly about PSL activists, because the extraordinary win of this party, which had nothing to do with the polls that predicted a completely different election result, must have raised far-reaching doubts. And this must be remembered, no matter how President Bronisław Komorowski reacted at the time, how other rulers reacted, who of us, in short, made fun of each other, and in an unchosen way, often even disgusting. I don't want to go back to that. The fact is that this is the foundation, i.e. this is the foundation of this thinking, which today dominates in connection with this amendment, i.e. thinking how to make the Polish state not pretend that it is absent, only that the Polish state, and in this case the legislator, i.e. the Sejm and the Senate, guarantee as much as a person can guarantee within the national community that elections will be held in a fair, transparent manner, and therefore the results of these elections will also be subject to control. And this is the foundation that needs to be remembered, because there would not be so far-reaching changes that are better, worse, because the work of man is always imperfect. If it weren't for that experience and that attempt to put real problems under the rug, which Poles, voters saw. This, of course, causes some consequences that are best seen when it comes to finding solutions in this dilemma, which, personally, was also a very clear dilemma for me, i.e.. whether to restore or deny the right to correspondence elections. The experience of those local elections suggested that this is the easiest way to manipulate. If a man is evil, he can take advantage of it. This will result again in far-reaching consequences of the results that are disproportionate to the reality, the views of voters. But on the other hand, there is of course a very important value, which prevails... Hence, among others. my amendment, which concerns this, which was already mentioned by the rapporteur yesterday by the senator, that there are fundamental civil rights and within the framework of those civil rights of those who have these rights, and who are unable to exercise them independently of each other... You have to do whatever it takes to get them to do it. Of course, people with disabilities belong to this part of the environment of our national community, of course they do. On this occasion, I would like to say that, especially as a senator, I say this. Of course, this is a very important demand, which will cause us to vote on, I hope, the return of correspondence voting in the case of disabled people, but that this does not solve our current issues regarding not only local elections, but others that will be ahead of us. Well, as a senator, I cannot imagine that we would not have time before the next parliamentary elections to discuss the issue of the right to exercise civil rights by Polonia. And that's the subject that obviously needs to come back. I want to give you a heads-up, because, as I understand it, this is a subject that the opposition will raise. That's right. We're gonna have to go back to that. [[Why not now?]] Why not now? Well, it seems to me that this is due to a very obvious fact. Today we are not prepared for this. I suspect neither you nor us. I mean. above all, we are not prepared for how to do this when it comes to the justice involved in the division of the whole world into zones that would give the Senate a credible addition to the Polish Senate. Because my request will be for such representatives to sit here in our House. We have not yet been able to clarify this; I am thinking both of our side and of the opposition. But I'm gonna say right now, I can't imagine he's not coming back from the correspondence election. Only in a broader sense, i.e. in the Polish aspect, on the broader background of other issues, i.e. above all, it is about senators who would represent the Polish people before the parliamentary elections. So in the context of correspondence elections, I consider this return to the record of the right of the disabled to vote de facto as just a step towards the next discussion. It shows... [[Unlike what's now.]] It's very possible to what's now. Why did I bring this example to light, Senator? So you can hear me from the beginning to the end. [[...Patience.]] I know you're patient because you're a patient man. Thank you so much for that. Well, my beginning was that the foundation is that of the 2014 flaw. And now we are looking for a solution that, on the one hand, will make voters aware that yes, the legislator has made sure that there is no counterfeiting, and on the other hand, it will make sure that we do not fall into a second turn, i.e. taking away anybody's right to vote. This is a real problem, not an imaginary one, life has made it real. A similar problem Fortunately, this ended, I hope, positively and we will vote for it in Law and Justice. The problem is the archiving of documents after the election. Again, it is a postulate that I have made and which I understand has gained support, and which says that in order to protect myself from possible cheating, from possible people who want to take advantage of their position... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...in the electoral structure to deceive the Polish society, at least one such instrument will be preserved, such as archiving all the materials, also videos, everything in the resources involved in making the elections, and it will be possible for at least 5 years to look at and verify all those people who would dare to repeat the activities of 2014. I hope that we will therefore vote in this form together with the amendments proposed by the Law and Justice in the Senate. We will look at it and between the local elections and the next we will return to this discussion, so that the Senate really protects the rights of voters, including definitely the right of Polonia to be with Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u5	Thank you. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're discussing a new electoral code today. Yesterday, during the speech of the President of the State Election Commission, Judge Hermelinski, it was clear that the negatives prevail in this solution. The whole discussion with the judge has shown very strongly that there are few positives, but there are many negatives. As far as the downsides are concerned, I'm gonna let you focus on two things. The first issue is the famous correspondence vote. I want to say yes. I had the opportunity in Brussels at the beginning of December to participate in the Fourth European Parliament of Persons with Disabilities at the invitation of MEP Mark Plura. I can say that the Polish delegation of people with disabilities was the most numerous. The first element of the discussion in the European Parliament of People with Disabilities was the access of people with disabilities to the electoral process. We were there to boast of real success. All I'm gonna say is that the solution is standard for us, i.e. Election committees in social services homes, hospitals, closed circuits, in many European countries are not used. We've had it for a long time, it's standard for us. Since last term, we've had a correspondence vote, a proxy vote, we've got a Braille overlay. I agree that it sometimes causes some trouble in the context of this book. However, I think it is more valuable that visually impaired people have the opportunity to vote. If it had worked. do in some compromise mode, so that they can still have this possibility, and the controversial book could disappear, yes, but if it is not possible, it is of greater value that these people are able to vote. And I want to say yes. Really sad, and even offensive, were these voices that the correspondence vote by disabled people and those who use it gives some possibility of falsifying elections. I would also like to say this, based on the statements of Judge Hermelinski, who, I would remind you, was designated to the Constitutional Court by PiS, and also moved from the Constitutional Tribunal to the PKW as a candidate of the PS: it is not the people with disabilities who pose a threat when it comes to falsifying elections in Poland. If anyone poses such a threat, then those who, here, will quote Judge Hermelinski, how little Kazio sloppyly write the electoral rules. This is a real threat to the electoral process. [[Applause]] Whether it's done consciously or not, whether it comes from mere sloppyness, whether it's planned sloppyness, it's not for me to decide. But it is not people with disabilities who pose a threat to the electoral process in Poland. If you think there are so many threats and abuses, I propose one very simple way: elections can be eliminated at all. Then there will be no abuse, certainly there will be no abuse, and the problem will be solved. [[Applause]] [[You don't have to tell me anymore.]] I would like to say one more thing in the context of the correspondence vote. I'm looking here at Senator Elephant, who was once Director of PFRON in Kielce, and I'm sure he'll confirm what I'm about to say. This is very often said: there is no correspondence vote, but there will be a proxy vote. It is very important for people with disabilities to be independent in different spheres of life. The more independent you are, the better it is, the more you want to achieve this independence. That's why it's so important to vote in correspondence, that I can do something on my own, not ask someone for help, even in accordance with the law. Yes? And that's why people with disabilities opt for it so much. I am very pleased that, however, there have been votes here to bring back this mailing vote for people with disabilities. But what I'm trying to say is, let's not get ahead of ourselves because of this. The fact that you are withdrawing from some solution that concerns what already exists for people with disabilities today is not a success. It's merely decency in this little passage. I just want to say one more thing. This is, of course, a matter of longer discussion, but it is worth that we, after the issue of the Brazilian overlays and all these facilitations from the previous term, put the discussion under discussion, calmly, because it is not an easy and simple thing to vote on the Internet. After all, we are now able to manage our own finances, make transfers, pay online. I know, because I've been talking to specialists about how it's not that easy to vote online, but let's think about it, let's discuss how we can take this step forward in the future, so that, as we are now in the context of facilities for people with disabilities, we really are the leaders when it comes to voting. Let me also table an amendment which brings this state of affairs back to the bill when it comes to correspondence voting. I very much hope that the votes to restore this vote, which were cast by President Duda, by Minister Łapiński, and also in this Chamber... I'm counting on it all to end well, positively. But I repeat: this is no victory, this is no merit, this is simply the restoration of the present state. And the second case, unrelated to the correspondence vote. I promised a certain local secretary in my constituency that I would bring this up. This lady has been holding elections in her community for years. In 2014 there was a change of uncle from someone who was there for many years, to someone who was new. The lady then organized the elections and is finally in her position, although the change of the governor might have threatened her, in the sense that she would no longer be in office. And this lady says to me, "Sir, I've been organizing elections for years, and now I feel like I'm being accused of falsifying them." When I read this electoral code, I get the feeling that even though I've been doing it for a dozen years and there have never been any complaints, the codemaker treats me like a fraud. This is also said by many other people and by many secretaries in local governments, who have been organising elections well and efficiently for years. Finally, one last thing, aside from the correspondence vote. I believe that one of the most controversial records of the procedated electoral code is the ability to delete this, I would say, first choice. You're talking about the fact that this code was born from the experience of 2014. I do not question this because I know the people who voted for the Polish People's Party, although they did not want to vote for the Polish People's Party. I know of such a case that in one of the municipalities of my constituency, where PSL was not on the front page, because it was going to elections under a different name and had another number of lists, but in the first place was Law and Justice, after the election the number of councillors of Law and Justice increased by 600%. Such abuses, of course, were. I'm not saying they weren't there. But to create such an opportunity that, once the original choice has been deleted, the next choice is an important choice, which, in my opinion, gives even greater scope for abuse, and I warn against it. There was accidental abuse, and today, de facto, in the majesty of law, we sanction the possibility of such abuse. It seems very dangerous to me. I hope I'm wrong, but I think it can be. Thank you very much and I would like to make amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u7	Thank you, Senator. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u8	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! We're already having a long discussion about... It would be good if the discussions were shorter, but the laws were better prepared. I answer that for the future. Senator Żaryn just said that the rules on correspondence voting have not been refined, and that is why the Law and Justice will still lean on them. You've been running this country for two years. When you do such a serious bill, you should prepare it well, and all the opinions that were presented here yesterday and the day before yesterday, as well as at the committee meeting, indicate that this is one of the worst, most sloppyly prepared laws so far. Unfortunately, I have to say this. This is also demonstrated by the fact that many amendments have been tabled even by those who have prepared this law. I'm gonna do my best to get through all the stuff we've been talking about. First of all, I'd like to be. 'Cause that's the way to refer to the charge of forgery, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Senator Żaryn, you've already left. You said yours and you left. And I would like to say that yesterday, while you were away, we discussed this here for a very long time and wondered whether it was possible to talk about counterfeiting or not. Well, we can talk about forgery when there are judgments when we have some evidence. You can't say that there was some kind of forgery on the basis of the statements of your own association. It's just stuff like that. You can't do that. Even worse was what Senator Libicki had already mentioned, that there were accusations at the committee meeting by the applicant, Mr Schreiber, and by other people who were at the meeting that disabled people were falsifying elections. I don't think anyone's heard anything like that in the Senate. It's really awful, and I'm really sorry this happened. It shouldn't have a place. Nobody apologized for her. I would like to draw attention to this. Nobody. No one apologized for what Mr Schreiber said for this insinuation. But it's a good thing it didn't rain in this House anymore. Good. Ladies and gentlemen, this project, as I say, contains so many mistakes that we may be concerned about how this law will be implemented. I'll start, for example. from the opinion of the Association of Polish Cities. What things did the Polish Towns Association pay attention to? The point is to quickly calculate the basic defects that have not been removed and refer to them. Aligning the procedures of the participatory budget... So far, we have had various types of procedures about the participatory budget and they have been good, legal. And now you're moving in with one that's in force. This is a constant lack of respect for diversity and for local governments in general. Everything has to be done top-down, tell them what it's supposed to look like, and tell the local authorities how to work. Then they will allegedly work well. Next thing you know, it's a five-year term. I am in favour of the 2nd term of office... limiting to the 2nd term of five years, without acting backwards. I think that's a good solution. But I keep pointing out that it's been undermining for years. The constitutionality of such a solution was simply undermined. But we don't have a Court, and I don't know who's gonna say that right now. Local government organisations also stress the limitation of JOWs. Here are divided opinions, many have different opinions, regardless of political affiliation. There are concerns that local authorities will again be charged with maintenance costs. That's what it is. I'll come back to that later. This is the preference of the party committees. Unfortunately, this is a misfortune of this bill, fatal. I also pay attention by appreciating the pros, e.g. The fact that the chairman may issue these orders to the municipal office... Because it gave rise to some huge irregularities. There are several advantages, but, ladies and gentlemen, really if we are introducing a debate that is a plus. This means a debate about the state of the commune and once a year all the residents debate about it, which is a plus and what is a good idea, an interesting one, for God's sake, let us not introduce something like that, that the councillors speak without limits. This, ladies and gentlemen, is nowhere to be found, really. It is wateroil and talk for three days. If there are no restrictions, then every councilman can have an hour and a half... I watched it in the early 1990s, and I remember situations like this, that the commune council was held for two days, people sat at night, and so on. Let's not go back to that. It's completely pointless. I'd throw it away. Really, it doesn't make any sense. Let the commune limit it somehow. You can say you can't limit it below, I don't know, 10 minutes or something... but not talking without limits. And then there are 15 residents, at least there must be 15 residents, who... I think it's right to give the people a vote, and it's very good that the people will be able to... I just imagined that the influential mayor or somebody who's gonna be there, just have those voices quickly, so to speak, will take care of it. And there will be 15 people who will come and praise the mayor or the mayor, which is also possible under this law. Really, when you do something like that, you have to do it right. Think about it. So that it will certainly be a bill of amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, very serious matters, that is to say, the introduction of political nominates to the PKW, and the expulsion of judges from there, and yet saying that judges are more political than politicians, that is really some kind of... That kind of statement that the state is feeding us, that is just embarrassing. Next: PKW has control over campaign funding. That's what I keep paying attention to. If we have party nominates at the PKW and the PKW at the same time exercises control over the financing of the campaign, but also on the financing of the parties, i.e. subsidies, we are dealing with the fact that they will control themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, this will lead to incredible situations. I recall how sensitive these are, as illustrated by the example of the Modern, which was taken away by the party subsidy. I would point out that now it is the political majority who will judge themselves whether everything was okay or not. Next thing you know, we still don't know why it didn't happen, and we still don't have an answer to why there are 100 Commissioners. The districts are still shared by these new Commissioners, which is fatal. Until now, the districts have been designated by the municipalities, which are most eligible for this, have the greatest experience and in general know best how to do it. The next point is that candidates for head of the National Election Office are reported by the head of the Home Office. Look, this is unacceptable, really. This is a minister who claims to be independent. The State Election Commission of its candidate for head of office. So the head of the office will be able to do his job anyway, and the PKW will have little to say, because it will be controlled by the head of the Home Office. The next case is the Election Corps. It's something completely new, it's called. work for your own, another job. Here we will have thousands of Misiewiczs all over Poland and they will be people who... In addition, I'm paying attention to this. There's a record that they can't carry out electoral agitation except for their candidacy. That's what I'm paying attention to. This is, ladies and gentlemen, art. 5, paragraph 44. I appeal to the senators to take a look. Next, the Code of Good Practice of the Venice Commission. The State does not respect the Venice Commission, but I am paying attention to it and I am also telling you where certain issues arise from, for example. concerning the transparency of the ballot box. The urn... I explained it yesterday, so I won't get into it anymore, but I also said that this is what comes from the code of good practice of the Venice Commission, which was established in 2002, long ago, and this is a European thought about democratic elections. I don't think that should be denied. That should be taken into account. But who am I talking to? It is probably impossible for us to consider anything from the European Union at all. [[Time, Senator.]] Oh, and in this code of good practice it's said, among other things, that at least... [[It's been ten minutes.]] ...a year before the election should be set up a system, i.e. electoral districts, etc. Unfortunately, I didn't finish. I'd still like to leave an amendment... It's just a quick fix. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment concerns... There is even a proper record that the generals, councillors, etc. and their spouses cannot exercise certain functions within the office, which is such an anti-neupotic record. It is also said that the spouses of the hosts, deputies of the hosts, councilmen, etc. may not be members of the management or control authorities of the municipality. I think it's very right. I would like to ask you to take into account the amendment that the members of these authorities may not only be spouses, but also those with them in common. We already have 30% of concubines in Poland and I find it pointless to stigmatize only spouses. I'm leaving this... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u9	Thank you very much. And Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, a few general comments. And then I'm going to go over the amendments that I want to make, and that's about 10 amendments. General remarks. Ladies and gentlemen, the crawling property of the state is progressing at an alarming rate. You have recently politicized the State of the National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court. The president stopped protests in July to sign the bill yesterday. A law which, apart from the issue of an emergency complaint, is virtually no different from the previous one. The European Commission has decided to launch the Article. 7 in relation to Poland. Now you come to the conclusion that it's time to move on. It's time for self-government. You want to organize and oversee elections in local governments, and you know that, as a last resort, the Supreme Court will decide the validity of these elections. Local elections are the most complicated, most difficult to organize. You want to introduce a new organizational model just before the election. The new Commissioners will be appointed by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, the Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They won't have any experience, and that hasn't happened yet. There will be a new head of the National Election Office appointed by the competent minister, the Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there will be new officials. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska was just talking about it. These new officials will have a total of about 5,000 different districts; in large cities there will probably be more than in smaller. and they will be appointed for 6 years. We have a whole new chapter in the bill on this subject. With these changes, you will lead to the politicisation of local elections. We're not the only ones talking about threats. Yesterday, the President of the State Election Commission, Judge Wojciech Hermeliński, spoke about the ministerial and parliamentary system. According to the PiS, the judicial system didn't work. Such fundamental changes without prior examination, testing must not be introduced at least one year before the election, and we have 10 months left for the election. This bill, for which you wish to vote, can lead to a paralysis of the electoral system, which is very likely. We'll see how the president speaks to this bill. This could be another embarrassment for Poland, the paralysis of local elections. If you have to vote on this law for political reasons, at least change the date of entry into force of this law. In my amendment, I propose the date of 1 January 2019. And now a few comments about the law itself. Postal voting, Art. Point 5, paragraph 25, was wide-ranging on the subject. My amendment repeals this provision in its entirety, so we are going back to what happened. Not only disabled people, but also older people with difficulties, e.g. at the entrance to the premises They were all covered by... I suggest we get back to the way things were, so that not only the disabled... Senator Libicki was talking about an online vote. It is right to go in this direction, but I am convinced that this is impossible under the PiS government, because there will certainly be too many suspicions, as in 2014 that elections will be falsified. Sometimes fate determines whether the elections were faked or not. I'm pretty sure if in a draw 'Cause fate decides it. In 2014, the PiS drew list 1, so today we wouldn't be talking about fake elections, and it certainly wouldn't have been a subject, it would have been clear. Well, yeah, you're suspicious, every step of the way. Next case... I would just like to add to that, with regard to voting in accordance with the Act, that it is also possible to vote by proxy. And fortunately it was, one of these two forms remained, completely unchanged. The Act amended the deadline for communicating information to voters. We talked a lot about what it looked like. Therefore, I have an amendment to make it so that the Commissioner for 21 days earlier, not for 7 to 14 days... Because at this point, those people who would like to vote in correspondence wouldn't have the opportunity. The secret vote case, the watchman's case, who's gonna be standing next to the ballot box. This is also the case for my amendment, which is written here. It's about not embarrassing yourself here. There are other ways out, not that such a person should stand by the urn and watch how we vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the sign "x." Of course, my amendment goes in that direction to get back to what happened, the article. Paragraph 5 (2) of the Act. The point is to eliminate this new definition, which refers to these few intersecting lines. Inclusions on the ballot that invalidate the electoral card It's also for liquidation. Back to the way things were. That's also what my amendment says. Financing the election campaign. We've talked a lot about this, too, and I'm not gonna say it again. Back to art. 499. One last thing. That's where I'm counting on it. I do not count on these previous amendments, and so you must report them yourself. This was the case with the amendments that the Legislative Office reported because if you write them yourself, they are good. I have a request: maybe one of you could file this amendment of mine, the one I'm talking about? Then there'd be a chance she'd get over it. What's with the amendment? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm looking for her... Well, in the law on municipal, district and voivodeship, we have such a provision concerning the citizens' initiative of resolution. I will read the passage: the draft resolution tabled as part of the citizens' initiative of the resolution becomes the subject of the council's deliberations at the next session following the submission of the draft, but no later than 3 months after the date of submission of the draft. Well, the locals came to me in this case and together with Mrs Jadwiga Rotnicka, my colleague 'Cause they volunteered to her, too. We're making an amendment. If such an initiative affects two days before the session, when a legal opinion needs to be prepared, etc., then it cannot be introduced, therefore... This is really a very simple matter. The point is to delete only one part of this sentence: in the next session after the submission of the project. I will read the sentence without this passage: the draft resolution tabled as part of the citizens' initiative of the resolution will be discussed by the council of the municipality no later than 3 months after the submission of the draft. Well, it's simple. No later than then. And we know the board has to gather at least once every three months, so no later... The point is to delete the words at the next session from the submission of the project. This doesn't change anything, and all local governments will have the opportunity to prepare for this initiative, it wouldn't be done overnight. Finally, I call again for the date of entry into force of the law to be postponed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u11	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Wczyła, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The proposed amendments to the electoral code, unfortunately, are part of the logic of the destruction of democracy and the rule of law in Poland so that PiS can exercise power in Poland in an unlimited way with a constitution, EU law and as little as possible at risk of losing elections. A year ago, PiS carried out a coup d'état, an assassination attempt on the Constitutional Tribunal. Yesterday, the president announced that he would sign a bill that would kill the independence of the courts, which would seal the elimination of another pillar of democracy. Senator Piotr Florek has already pointed this out. As dangerous as this phenomenon is, the European Commission's decision to adopt the so-called one against Poland demonstrates. an atomic option, i.e. art. 7 of the Treaty on European Union. This means that the European Union accuses Poland of violating the rule of law and the values of the European Union. No EU country has ever met such an allegation. PiS underestimates this problem because it knows that in order to impose economic sanctions, we need unanimity, which our strategic partner will block. Hungary. Thanks to this, the PiS will probably announce another victory over the European Union with a 1:27 ratio. It will eventually lead Poland to the EU's donkey bench, towards which EU money is reluctant to flow. PiS also knows this and already points out that the expected marginalisation of Poland in Europe is the fault of the opposition, which complains about the Polish government in Brussels. I think it would be wrong to remind here that it is not the first time that the Polish people are complaining about the Polish government abroad. A classic example of complaining about the Polish government is also the situation from December, but 1981, when the United States punished Poland with sanctions for the introduction of martial law. In this sense, the PiS government fits well into the role of a follower of communist traditions. Both of them had one more thing in common: they were part of a crawling coup by the government. I'm talking about the courts so much, because in the trial of free elections rape, it plays a key role. It can even be said that, in the context of the local elections, you can see clearly why there was an attempt on the independence of the courts. For PiS knows well that in the Seym and in the Senate it can vote out everything. But he also knows that even if he separates Parliament from society with a fence and a wire, the local elections behind that fence won't win. These elections can be won in cities and Polish municipalities. PiS is also increasingly aware that it is not normally able to win local elections in Poland. Already, the supplementary elections in local governments show, they expose the falling support for PiS in Polish cities and villages This autumn, PiS grimly lost the election in Jaslo, Novgorod, Kozłów. Neither the high poll posts nor the support of leading politicians given to PiS candidates in local elections helped. It is precisely because of fear of defeat in the local elections that changes are made in order to increase the chances of the election of the PiS through the law. What is the level of panic in the PiS shows the attack on the right to vote in correspondence, which is described, of course, without any evidence or arguments, as a way to fake elections. High Senate, if the disabled and the elderly are a threat to the PiS, I am optimistic about the outcome of the local elections and next year's Christmas, during which I will celebrate David's victory over Goliath. PiS wants to eliminate from the self-government the esteemed and well-liked mobs, mayors, city presidents. Under our pressure, he has spread this process for 10 years, but by introducing a statutory limitation on the term of office, the PiS admits that he does not trust the wisdom of the sovereign and that I am replacing this wisdom with party wisdom. I hope the sovereign remembers that. The PiS puts Poles in the head that the uncle in the third term becomes a burned-out wojew, that he is additionally susceptible to abuse. Of course, there are no sources to support this argument. And my observations as a journalist and as a self-government officer lead me to the exact opposite conclusion. The uncle, who has the prospect of his next term of office, will try very hard to be well received by his potential voter. And the uncle who doesn't care about re-election won't care about that good opinion either. In short, he will try to catch on as soon as possible during his term of office. Therefore, being a good self-government should be regarded as a chance of life, as a life, not a temporary challenge, such as. is treated as a manager in the economy. [[Where's the trust?]] Today, the municipalities need managers able to build forward-looking projects and implement them later. And a good manager, we all know that. He's an experienced manager. Unfortunately, if such a community appears, the PiS will ensure that, in the name of the superiority of party wisdom over the wisdom of the Sovereign, it will not be for long. Limited number of term of office of the wojews Not only the mayors, but also the mayors and the presidents, because this is also the way it is written in the local government law. For one more reason, it is logical. High Senate, if we consider the reasons why this is being introduced into local governments, we should ask why it is only in local governments. Why not in Parliament? Aren't senators and Members subject to the same distortions as self-government? Either the rule applies to everyone, or it doesn't apply to anyone. In my opinion, this is a harmful rule, but if you say "A," you have to say "B," even if it's "B" for us. High Senate, what I am talking about is that the changes in the electoral ordination and the functioning of local governments and earlier changes in the courts give little advantage, but many disadvantages. And above all, they put another public sector under party control and create manipulation opportunities. So we are dealing with a classic crawling coup, which causes the trademark of the rule of law and justice after 2 years to cease to be the slogan of a good change, and it becomes the demand of the opposition: free courts, free elections, free Poland! Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u13	Senator Bogdan Klich is speaking. [[In two years' election, I remind you of the senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As Senator Wcisła said, we demand free elections, free Poland. We would like to add to this free courts, but yesterday's decision notified by the President leaves no doubt that he will sign both laws ending the process of subjugating you, PiS, an independent judiciary in Poland. Now we are talking about free elections, about those elections which Poles have been attached to since the famous vote on 4 June 1989, although in fact until the end of the free elections, as we all remember, were those from 1990, those self-government ones. And since then, although the turnout in the local elections is about 50%, Poles have attached themselves to their self-government, to this self-government, which was not in communist years, between 1950 and 1990. Poles love their small homelands, Poles know where their immediate surroundings are, Poles care about their immediate surroundings and want their representatives to care for this small homeland too. And if they lose confidence in their representatives, they can call them off by means of a referendum mechanism. Why should these achievements of Polish self-government be undermined by the electoral ordination which withdraws us, which goes in spite of everything that has been our acquis for the last 27 years? They didn't fall in this room, we didn't hear them yesterday, no arguments that would argue that stubborn ordination is better than politically neutral ordination. There were no arguments to show that blurring something on the ballot was better than a simple basic principle: one cross in one place. There were no arguments against this dramatic statement by Judge Hermelinski, who spoke about the incapacity of the State Election Commission. There was no argument that instead of politically neutral judges, this is their profession, and that is their calling, control over the organisation and conduct of the elections should be exercised by commissioners hanging from party decisions. After all, who will be those who will be proposed by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to the highest degree by the Minister, who is the representative of the political party in the government? Well, they'll be party commissioners. What is the reason for replacing politically neutral judges with political representatives, but party nominates? Tell us what the reason is, what are the reasons why this second solution is better than the first one. What is the argument, at last, that this way of voting, which we are used to, consisting of putting one cross in one place, with one name, is to be worse than the new one, when someone, not necessarily the voter himself, can blur the original choice and put closer an indefinite mark consisting of intersecting lines in another place? This opens the door to dishonesty during the election. And this. What I was talking about earlier opens the gate to inequality in elections. What brings you guys to the PiS senators? You question one of the five adjectives that accompany democratic choices: the principle of equality, equality of all candidates, equality of all electoral committees? I guess Jasło, I think it's about Jasło and other places that my previous speakers mentioned where PiS suffered a terrible defeat with representatives of other groups. I think that's what you're after. If that's what you're talking about, say in an open text that you're changing the rules of the game during the game itself, or actually just before the competition starts. And that you're talking about unfairly strengthening your electoral opportunities by such a violation of the electoral law that it prefers one against all others. Just remember, if once this principle of equality is violated, then it can be violated in any subsequent case. Because if once those who are required to supervise the organisation and then give the results of the elections, i.e. the electoral commissioners, become party nominates, then the same can happen again. And then there will be no one else to complain to, because the State Election Commission will also not be a judge, but will be political. And that's what's the biggest threat from this election ordination. That's why it's never enough to say that this document, this bill, is worthy of one thing. "Rejected in full'. Of course, it can be modified, but it cannot be improved. It can be modified in those cases where we have submitted minority proposals represented by the representatives of the Civic Platform Senators Group. It can be modified, but it can't be improved. Therefore, I repeat my motion to reject this law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u15	Senator Barbara Boris-Damian.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In fact, so far everything that could have been said about this law was almost said, but it turns out that it is possible to constantly, constantly and forever to find new issues. That's why I'm going to turn to the people who left this room because this is the best proof of how interested they are in this law, and they said and left. Namely, I am very surprised by Senator Swede, who in his speech thanked the applicants so zealously for the drafting of this bill. Well, ladies and gentlemen, suddenly for the Senators of the PiS the greatest authority on such an important state law becomes Mr Schreiber, although in this House we have many experienced and outstanding lawyers, both on the right and on the left side of the room, who should be taking the floor on this matter and speaking. And Mr. Swede gives deep, lowly thanks to the applicants. I draw attention to the fact that 182 amendments to this law, in the Seym itself, were tabled after the first reading and after the second reading. We're here. As we have it recorded in the computer Until now, not counting the committee meeting with several amendments, 47 amendments to this law have already been tabled. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I have to tell you how much the bill is worth, which is a huge number of amendments. There was a charge here that we were repeating ourselves in the artwork of some cases. Well, we're repeating ourselves because I'm paying attention. One of the senators has already stressed, and we have moved on to the agenda, as is the title of the Act: the Act amending certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the selection process, etc., while from all the arguments that have been cited here, it follows that this Act not only does not seek to increase the participation of citizens, but intends to reduce their participation. [[Applause]] And I'm not gonna quote again, but I'm gonna make all the arguments about people with disabilities with different disabilities and different degrees of disability when we make huge... I say we're doing this because I still feel that this House should make really smart and sensible decisions, make meaningful changes, and somehow I identify myself... But I get it wrongly, because from the statements of the rapporteur Pęk, who could not be credible, convincingly answer any of the questions that had been asked, hiding himself from the fact that there was no mention of it, etc... But, Dear Commissions, to which I do not belong, because I consider myself incompetent in legal matters, did you not lean on these matters? Wasn't there any reflection? Don't the senators of the committee who decided to accept or reject this law have any reflection on it, wondering what they will approve? It's embarrassing, isn't it? Well, all that's missing is that the club president, Mr. Martynowski, at some point, got up, said his formula, and I'm making a proposal against it, and we wouldn't discuss it at all, and we wouldn't talk about it at all. And the Senate is probably a House that should talk very deeply, which should listen to wise people, experienced people, competent people and take into account all kinds of arguments that are being made here. So I believe that such a procedure, which took place on this law both at committee meetings and in this Chamber, indicates that the State, upon order, is to adopt this law probably without any amendments at all, because it is necessary to hurry up and so on, and you have lost and lost completely this component of the invented complicated name of the law, but important, including words to increase the participation of citizens. This bill undoes self-government... well, I don't mean to say that it's a decade, but it's a dozen big, huge steps. 'Cause they're gonna lose their little country somewhere. And why the government, the representatives of the government, who are members of the party, are to decide on self-government, to indicate the electoral commissioners, etc.? Why, in a sense, is he incapacitated by such a law of self - government officials who know best what is important in their territory and what is needed? That's why I'm joining all the people who stand in the position of absolute necessity, and I'll even use that word. The total rejection of this law, which is even harmful for Polish society and for Polish self-government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u17	Thank you, Senator. Now you have the voice of Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing Marshal Boris-Damięcka recalled the title of this bill. It is worth reminding it at every opportunity: a law amending certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities. That's the title of this bill. So it would seem that the purpose of this law is indeed that it should be like the highest turnout in the local elections, so that all those who, for various reasons, cannot take part in the elections, going to the polling place, could vote, too, may feel responsible for their small homelands. Yesterday, law and justice officials said that it was impossible for correspondence to vote at all, and if anything, they only spoke about a certain category of disabled people. All amendments in this respect were rejected at committee meetings. Something has happened that there has been a variation in the views of the representatives of the Law and Justice, and a little re-establishing the condition which was previously, so they allow in these amendments which are reported in plenary that people with moderate and high disabilities will be able to vote so. This retreat is a good step. But if you are Senators of Law and Justice, in general the ruling part in Poland, in the Sejm, the government part, etc. He is constantly talking about an increase, so let's think about why not let people vote, especially young people who go to work in mass, work in Norway, Sweden, Germany, etc., etc. They don't leave permanently, they're not emigration within the meaning we accept, let's say, traditionally. They're going to work for two weeks, they're back for two weeks, they're working there for a month, they're going back, they're sailors... they're a lot of, a lot of, a lot of competitions. We in Pomerania see it clearly: in every family there are such people, most young people who go away. If we do not allow them to participate in public life in our village, then in practice we exclude them, and we say: stay where you are, become citizens of Norway, France, Sweden, etc., be citizens anywhere but here. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling party, would consider how to integrate these people into the system so that they can vote... Perhaps it is worth considering how to solve the problem of online voting? These are difficult surgeries, you know. But if we want to do something good, let's not restrict rights, let's not take away the voting opportunities, let's just look for a way to solve problems. Electronic voting is possible and is already being carried out in many countries. Even in those countries which, I say, later than we have learned democracy, which arose after the collapse of the Soviet Union. It all goes in gradually, but they deal with it. And we're going backwards. When the PiS talks about increasing something in a good way, I get scared and think it's gonna be exactly the opposite. The cost of running the local elections has so far been a significant amount, about PLN 240 million. It is a big and even very big money for the budget as big and rich country as Poland. And you're suggesting that these costs go up twice. For what reason? Because you don't trust the citizens. You think if there's one committee, she's probably gonna falsify something, and that's why you have to set up a second committee to check the first committee. [[Who's gonna check the other one?]] Exactly. Who's gonna check the other one? I think there's something about your mentality, I'm talking about Law and Justice, which makes you disbelieve people, and you think that, in principle, you have to control everyone. In this sense, the title of this law is correct, because it concerns increased control. And that's an increase in control. But is this increasing control gonna do anything? You said that elections were falsified in 2014. Was there a prosecutor's case in any of these cases? Has any of the members of the committee been put in prison or even charged? No. You use demagogy, rhetoric to discredit what you do and what you do well. Of course there are mistakes, you know. Wherever there is a human being, there may be various kinds of problems, but looking at every step of the way for people who want to do something wrong or have bad intentions is absolutely unacceptable. I think... it's a paradox about most of the laws that have been passed here in the last two years. Law and Justice for success accepts that we're taking something from someone, some powers. After a certain period of time, a specific law is amended and we return to what was before. I am not saying that to what was passed by the Civic Platform or parliament at a time when the Civic Platform ruled, but even before. It all comes back to life and talks about great success. Senator Żaryn said in his speech today on the electoral bill that we would have to return to the issue of correspondence voting for Polonia. And he said it like he was discovering some great America. He keeps doing it in a weird way. This is something that's already been decided. Maybe not so good, maybe it could have been improved... But no. First you have to throw everything away and then go back to what was, and say it's a success. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to rule. It's a road completely nowhere. I think, as Judge Hermelinski said yesterday, there are some little things in this bill... Well, I don't want to talk about it, 'cause no government, no coalition doesn't make up bad things. It's impossible. In this case there are also some good records. But what is in the regulations discussed here is indeed embarrassing. I hope, after all... When we discussed the Supreme Court laws and the National Judicial Council in July this year, I said from this stand that I am convinced that the President will veto them. Then I explained why. This did not happen in relation to the 3 laws, but it did so in relation to the 2 laws. Now I hope that a similar reflection will appear with the President on this bill, because it is no use to adopt a law that withdraws us in matters relating to elections, a law that simply undermines trust and faith in man, a law that shows that people who are socially involved in elections at this lowest level, at the level of the commune, are not believed and must be controlled. 100 officials need to be put up, and these 100 officials will still have their officials in every municipality and they will control the elections. That's what you used to accuse of, talking about the expansion of bureaucracy and administration. I have worked hard, and I have found that in recent years you have led to an increase in bureaucracy that has not been achieved by previous governments for many, many years. And that's just... Well, not the beginning, it's already... [[That's it.]] [[Advanced...]] This is the end of the term of office. I hope so. Right now, hope is... The Senators may reflect and vote on some of the amendments tabled by the Senators of the Civic Platform. I'm saying "correction." These aren't new solutions, they're like bringing back what was. Maybe you'll vote them out, not just the ones you're selectively claiming to be good at. And if not, it is the last hope in the President, who may, however, reflect and believe that civil society is what we have been, we are and will be proud, and that this must be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u19	You have a voice, Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! One of the determinants of the level of civilization of the country is the level of concern about the weakest, about children, about the elderly, about the disabled. Therefore, I welcome the opportunity to restore the dignity of voting to people with disabilities, because taking away this right was not only an incomprehensible, but a disgrace to people with poor health. The pressure of the disabled themselves, the pressure of the opposition and the common sense of some colleagues in the Law and Justice cause this amendment to have an opportunity to be introduced. That's a good thing. But this whole bill, as my previous speakers said, is pretty curious. Imagine that, according to the provisions of this law, such scenarios are possible when it comes to voting cards, as you can see on these pages. Here we can see that by the name of Mr. Kowalski someone placed a letter with cross marks, because there must be crossed lines, and then there is written a cheating face. And it is not known whether this person is voting for the same Kowalski or expressing himself pejoratively. Ladies and gentlemen, this vote in accordance with these records will be valid. Let's take a look at the second version. If someone votes for Kowalski and then there is a cross on Zieliński, it will not be known whether the voter changed his mind or if some mysterious hand placed a cross previously painted, pressed on his thumb As you've been telling us for years, Marshal Brudziński was so cheating. We're sanctioning this right now. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a parody of the vote, not a serious vote. I do not want to discuss all these amendments again, I have signed up for many of them, especially those concerning the disabled, but I will tell you some impressions. I live in Szczecin and I always wonder how it is that countries are separated from each other by a small river, Oder, and one is blooming and the other has problems all the time. I use Tegel airport almost as often as I use the Okęta airport. We watched the elections as observers for the OSCE, the last elections in Germany. I have to tell you, there are no glass urns in there. They're normal, they're wooden. There are no cameras, there's not even a signature on the attendance list. The clerk's just checking to see if the face in the ausweis matches the face she sees across from herself. They trust her to make one bird by her name, not ten, which would work with counting cards. The only thing they were afraid of, why they didn't trust, was Russian hackers, so the whole election was done without a computer. There was a ban on the use of electronics in the polls, and it was the only ban. The chairman of the committee was, you might say, a polonophile, a historian. I got into a discussion with him and he said this: sir, it's different for us that even the worst power that brought us into the tragedy of World War II has always been the power of choice. The NSDAP received 37% of the total Votes in elections in which you won the 123 years of partitions, 5 years of horrible occupation and 45 years of Soviet occupation developed a multigenerational mechanism: us and them. Power is the enemy, therefore it is possible to deceive her without having to confess. Power, on the other hand, thinks people are her enemies. And that they're definitely up to something, so you have to control them. It turns out that this is the way to nowhere, because always those who want to control more will come up with some new ways of control, and a people who do not respect power because they consider it to be adversaries will always be one step ahead of it. This is one of the reasons why on one side of the Oder everything is organized and there is prosperity, and on the other there is chaos that we are still deepening at the moment. I hope we don't lay a hand on this. Therefore, I believe that the rebuilding of trust between power and nation is one of the foundations of the agreement, which is necessary for Poland to develop safely and successfully. If the authorities don't think it's just to organize the lives of citizens, and citizens will know that they can report to friendly power when they're in trouble, and if the authorities know that they can be called off any time they go off the path of law and decency, it'll be one of the pillars. Of course, there are many others. It's needed to build a prosperous, rich country that we all dream of. As far as the correspondence vote is concerned, I have asked myself, ladies and gentlemen, to examine the transcripts of July 2014 when this House was talking about an amendment to the electoral code, in which, let me remind you, a correspondence vote was introduced for everyone, not just for the disabled. He spoke, among others. Senator Jackowski, the other senators took it. I went through the whole transcript, and it didn't say that the correspondence vote was wrong. If the legislators wish... My office has prepared a dozen-page analysis of how to vote in correspondence in various countries around the world. In Germany this has been possible since 1957 and is gaining popularity. In the oldest democracy in the world, the American And many Americans work in various parts of the world, on military missions, as advisors, as economists, doctors, experts, 1/6 voters, 30 million people, voting in correspondence, including the US ambassador in Poland, who himself told me this. At 30 million votes, only in 2,000 cases, there was a suspicion of some kind of violation. So that's a drop in the sea. There are states, among others. Oregon, where the residents are scattered and where all the voting takes place in correspondence, there are no polling stations at all. [[Well, that's impossible.]] And that's how it happens. [[Oh, that must be a mess!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is, let me remind you, the oldest democracy in the world. Restoring correspondence voting for disabled people is not a success, it is a duty. This is a moral duty to the sick and the weak. And only a return to the 2014 regulation would be the right step. Let us remember that the pillars of democracy are 3 independent authorities, and free courts and free elections are the inalienable and necessary foundation of free Poland. Let's always remember that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u21	You have a voice, Senator Slugocki. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] You have a voice, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have already spoken by referring to minority proposals and I am supporting them in their entirety. No doubt the desire is greater, but the lack of knowledge... But, respecting the voices of both their fellow senators and their opposition to self-government, e.g. Mr. Senator Czerwinski, I would like to point out that you have abused math to make a political assessment of this law. Namely, you are accusing the opposition that when you make a motion to dismiss the entire bill, you do not follow this math, because, as you say, the bill contains more than 30 exact numbers I do not remember The wording on increasing the participation of citizens in local government and only 7, I believe, are considered to be in breach of certain legal principles. And that's the conclusion that our request is unfounded. Well, Mr. Senator, the opposition to self-government, that's not how you apply the mathematical rules here. I'd recommend to you more of a consumer policy. PiS, as you know, is used in lawmaking, and even in overturning the constitution, in consumer comparisons. Here he says the judge who ate the candy bar is the basis... [[Voice from the room: He stole it.]] ...stole a candy bar. Well, I understand he ate it, too. It is the basis for reform of the whole justice system. Yeah, the justice system. it does not coincide with the Constitutional Tribunal, as you know, but it was also said that the Constitutional Tribunal again ate some mushrooms in cream funded by Merkel in Gdańsk. You can't compare like you That's what he did here, lemon and orange. And this law has been followed by such consumer mechanics, consumer mathematics, according to which since 2014 the so-called. accidents Now by some of this opposition referred to as fraud, by others as errors This is the basis for the State Election Commission to first completely ruin the current system and then build a new one on its ruins. Okay, that's a good statement. Except again, if we'd already used these mathematical methods, High Izbo, we'd have to say that if it was abuse. Whatever it is, maybe I'll say one word about it. This was indeed the case in the elections to the regional government, but already at the level of... Here, let's stop for a moment, because surprisingly, counterfeiters within the meaning of: The Civic Platform made it not her who won, but PSL obtained the bonus. Well, I'm sorry, it doesn't fit in the logic of a fraud. The cheater first thinks of himself and then thinks of others, his associates. So the platform won even though it was PSL in the first place? But let's keep tracking. After all, the elections to the Sejm are only part of the local government, and in my opinion it is not the most important one, because the constitution determines that this commune is the most important element of the local government. And that's where it turns out everyone's benefited from this bonus. Who was first? Well, as it turns out, again PSL, even though he was sixth in the county. So I think what we're talking about here is abuse and such an attempt to push us to the defense. And that's natural in your reasoning. But I find it already unnatural to deny the judges the right to close their mouths before their headquarters... or the chairman of the State Election Commission on matters relating to them. Of course, the senator should demand something else: so that the head of the PKW can speak in the so-called. National media. So far, there are people who know what they're talking about. Without a voice that usually means a mouth... Why do I say that you are, Senator, an oppositionist to self-government? I think you're proud of it, because the local government is more German, or at least Western, and you don't like Merkel. Mrs Merkel didn't know the local government until he was born. [[...all I like...]] Please? [[I do.]] [[Gentlemen, finish the dialogue. The senator has a voice.]] Well, the local government except that it's... There are different definitions, generally fairly consistent, that the adoption of public administration tasks in order to perform local tasks... But he also has one more important rule in him. This is self - control and responsibility. And that's exactly what you don't like. Because you want the government, all citizens to be customers of the central state. I remind you of that because Senator Libicki mobilized me to talk about localism. In 2005, the electoral lists for the PiS and the Civic Platform were on the same level, with a slight indication on the PiS. Very good level, locals were winning and moving forward. After that, as Nowogrodzka took over the typing of mayors, presidents or wójtów, this government of PiS-owski dwarfed. Now how do we save him from falling? How to save him from such ideas as the government for the city of Warsaw in the execution of central politics, the former commissioner... and the president, right? Was he president or not? And that's the bill that needs to be recharged, like these phone cards. It must be recharged by law, it must eliminate what is Polish experience, i.e. judicial control, for official, state control. So this is actually going away from this model where even the local government can organize elections. Unfortunately, this election must be organised by the state. I don't have much to say about this anymore, because if you break these basic principles of self-government, if you're still hiding under a candy bar mask, or, as you say in this bill, a further increase in citizens' participation... This reminds me of the resolution of the 20th KPZR Convention, which called for further growth and material construction of communism. Well, I agree with these demands of this law, only those in which it is said: more power, more responsibility for local governments in organizing communities in an electoral act, division into circuits and committees. Stay away from local governments! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u23	You have a voice, Senator Czerwinski, in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u24	I don't know how to relate to that statement that... [[Into the microphone, Mr. Senator.]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: For the microphone.]] [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] Now... Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, this statement was completely lied about what I was presenting in this Chamber. I certainly didn't say there were seven violations or mistakes in this bill. [[Indirectly.]] Mr. Senator, please read the minutes or the transcript carefully and then speak about the other statements. Bring something from yourself. I was talking about the fact that there are seven points in which the electoral process is sealed. That's it. That's it. And you flipped it over and started doing it in different ways. It's not right for a senator with that kind of experience to behave like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u25	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At the beginning, I would like to express my indignation and opposition to the behaviour that is taking place in this House as regards the representation of the government party at such an important meeting that is so important for many millions of Poles in the Senate. It is the question of the Minister of Home Affairs' absence, the absence of the Minister for Equal Treatment and, of course, the representative for persons with disabilities. I believe, Mr. Marshal, that this is disregard for the High House. I know this from my own experience, because, as you say, for eight years I've been standing here for hours to answer all my questions. The failure of government representatives to appear in such an important debate is a disregard for the High House. Ladies and gentlemen! Our House received a law which was scandalous in its record, I am not afraid to use this term, especially as regards the area that is closest to me, i.e. the environment of people with disabilities in Poland. The deprivation of civil rights, the deprivation of participation in the celebration of democracy, which is elections, is a disgraceful and unacceptable practice that was to be applied here. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not really know, in spite of all the announcements that have already been made, that the Law and Justice have withdrawn from this scandalous record preventing people with dysfunctions, people with disabilities from voting correspondence... I have a feeling it's a bit like with yeti: everyone heard, but no one saw. I said, where are these corrections? They're complex, it'd be good to finally really see them. [[Applause]] [[And discuss.]] And discuss, because we may not be able to accept their content. You've been using this narrative for the last two years: the last eight years. I want to say yes. For 8 years of government, the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party Poles lived in a country that cared for people with disabilities, in a country where benefits were regularly raised, where employment rates of people with disabilities grew, where support for families was regularly increased. Let me just remind you, let me give you one example, this is an example of a care provision. We found them at the level of PLN 420, and when we gave up governments, it was PLN 1300. And you're saying there's not much going on here. We also lived in a country that tried, as he could, to include people with disabilities in social and civic life, and avoided isolation, strengthening stereotypes and exclusion. Finally, we lived in a country where the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was ratified. For two years now, since PiS is in charge, Poland has not been such a country. The fact that you take away the electoral rights of tens of thousands of people who are lonely, disabled and ill, that you set them outside the community of citizens, is part of your anti-politics that your government is leading. Anti-politics, i.e. incompetent actions that are contrary to European standards and, worst of all, actions that are devoid of empathy and decency. I sometimes feel that for you empathy is the name of Chinese soup. Really. It's not something you can accept. But let's start with the incompetence I want to talk about. Above all, it is the way in which you manage the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, which is the basic tool in the system of supporting people with disabilities. A fund with almost five billion dollars in budget. We made sure that a social campaign would take place in due time; that people with disabilities, our fellow countrymen, could find out what state support they could count on during the elections; that the right guaranteed by the Constitution, the right to participate in elections, would simply be guaranteed. Since the so-called. a good change is allowed for an institution aimed at supporting the disabled to take care of itself. Out of pity, I would ignore the fact that it's basically anecdoted if it weren't more specific to your governments. The president, named Kwiatkowski, who was appointed by you, changed the recognizable PFRON logo to a flower symbol over the years. [[Applause]] Then it's only worse. Well, your CEO signs an absurdly unfavorable rental agreement, throws out experienced and competent specialists from work, and eventually gets cancelled. But his successor and his principal are happy to go to the conference. Where? Ethiopia. Which even on the Internet is hard to find information about. Of course, we're talking about a conference. I do not know what to learn or what to learn from the President in a country where disability is still considered a curse effect or an infectious disease. [[Voice from the room: It's almost like us.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] My successor is completely absent from all of this. Unfortunately, I'm sorry to say this because we've known each other for many years. A representative of the Government for Disabled Persons. I understand that you may have eliminated this office, whose meaning you probably do not understand, but you have decided to call someone who chooses silence wherever they should defend people with disabilities and their rights. I'm sorry to say this, because Minister Michalkiewicz and I have known each other for many years. All the more so, because after that change, I had great hopes that the environment would have a proxy. Another point: the superiors of Minister Michalkiewicz, Mrs Szydło, until recently Prime Minister, and Minister Rafalska, had nothing to do with their promises made in January this year that by December 2017, 5 000 new jobs in public administration for people with disabilities would be created. We checked. We have a few more days, things may change, but the number of employees is ridiculously low. Instead of these 5,000 new jobs on the occasion of the liquidation of the civil service, you have also removed the privilege of people with disabilities in the situation of promotion. In this case, your attorney was also silent. I understand that this place has now been occupied by more and more of your vice ministers, and there are a lot of cases in which people with disabilities need to be defended above all against your government. And this is where we move on to your indecent behavior. So besides taking away the right to participate in elections for people with disabilities, there is a horrible, scandalous idea of isolating children with disabilities in general education. An idea that civilizes us back by decades, brings back the darkest associations and usually in the world indicates a broken and zero level of empathy of its authors. The exclusion is your favorite strategy for the environment of people with disabilities. This is what you did in your flagship 500+ program for disabled children aged 16 to 18 with a slight degree of disability, taking away many of their families' resources that are particularly important and necessary. And here we come to one of the most cynical political games you've ever played. ♪ When we were in charge ♪ I'm talking about the previous coalition government. The Minister of Sweden and Mr Mularczyk first led to a judgment by the Constitutional Tribunal, which compared the provision of caretakers to adults with disabilities, and then stopped the implementation of the provisions of that judgment, maintaining a highly unfair social situation. As far as I know, the draft budget for next year also does not have that amount. [[There isn't.]] [[So there isn't at all.]] So she'll be gone again. You actually got it on a plate, because we're the ones who prepared this change, both legally and in terms of the budget at the time, leaving you with nothing but implementation. Using children and disabled people in politics is an exceptional abomination. [[A disgraceful...]] Instead of all of this, you have introduced a program for life that provides one-off support to a family in which a disabled child is born, completely forgetting about them. And not taking care of them. Who already have children with disabilities. There are huge expenses needed, and these families are left to themselves. [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Just a minute, if I may. [[Please.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. So it seems that the 500+ programme, which you are so proud of, has been carried out at the expense of people with disabilities and their families. Shame. Taking away the right to participate in elections for disabled persons is part of a long list of rights that you receive from disabled people, intertwined with demonstrations of your incompetence in the management of the entire support system. To conclude, I would like to say that for 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, the environment of people with disabilities could count on serious dialogue, the introduction of modern support instruments, real improvement of living conditions. Today, from your government and you as parliamentarians, people with disabilities can expect a lack of empathy and understanding, uncivilized ideas and PiS incompetence. If the measure of democracy and the development of a civilised state, the rule of law, is the level of care for the weak, excluded and worse situation, then your actions, colleagues from the PiS, have been constantly moving Poland away from Europe towards the East for 2 years. I'm asking you to come to your senses. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u27	You have a voice, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I'd like to say, "Dear Ministers, but there's no one for whom. I would like to say dear applicant, but there is no one to whom. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill goes to the Senate, which feels like a father. And has the right to feel the father of Polish self-government and the emerging Polish democracy, the guardian of Polonia. So far, there has been a belief that self-government is the basis for democracy based on trust in citizens. Of course, no one is officially saying this, but we are here witnessing the collision of this idea based on the freedom of local communities with the total pursuit of full power. Built on a culture of distrust, a group seeking to take over this power is setting before us a law that is actually full of pretend games. Under beautiful slogans, as they always do in totalitarian systems, there are completely different aspirations and completely different content. Let's take a look at these regulations for a moment. I'm looking at Senator Rulewski here. And let's take off the mask... It would seem that increasing the influence of citizens on decisions made in the municipality, the county and the voivodship is a good direction of change. Yeah, but anyone who's been in government I was there for 7 years, and he knows how delicate this matter is. What was to be regulated here is not regulated, and what was weakness is strengthened. What wasn't regulated? Definitely the powers of the executive body separated from the legislative... resolution. You're not touching this country. On the contrary, you add a few elements to this boiler of anxiety, which as a result of the ambiguities of the regulations appear. So there will be new powers for councillors, for citizens to report, I believe, continuing motions for resolutions regardless of their value, which will lead to the break-up of local communities, will generate constant conflicts. This is the government that's about to rise, and you'll see what happens. Anyone who worked in the local government knows that they will, and they will. The authority of local governments will fall. A place that was an expression of the aspirations of local communities will probably become a source of conflict, quarrels, business games. Distrust, of course, is the introduction of two-channel. I, too, was suspicious of the long reign of the mayors, especially when it happened. And that's what's happened sometimes. That in the election against the mayor and the mayor, no one wanted to run. I had doubts whether he was so good or so well-informed that no one wanted to run against him. However, a closer look at this idea shows that cadence without a guarantee for a self-government officer, which will follow, can cause at least two very bad effects when it comes to self-government. First of all, it can cause negative selection. Someone will say, well, even the President of the Republic has two terms. Yeah, but he's got a guaranteed future. If someone, being a good manager, being a good organizer, being a good director, 'cause I think that's the kind of people we'd like to see at the head of local governments. For 10 years, he's gonna give up his profession, give up his career to go to self-government, then he's gonna be sure that he's not coming back to the place he came from, although we would have guaranteed it legally... Because it's guaranteed, but each of us knows that for three months. So there's not gonna be a good call for self-government when there's this two-channel. What's more, you want a clean, transparent, corruption-free government. We all want him to be that way. But will two-channel support this? If we give no guarantee to these people, do we not expose them to temptation that they will find difficult to resist? When one of the local government officials first heard about it, it was still in your project. That this term of office will enter into force immediately... I was on a visit to the commune that day. And I said, "My lords, what do you think?" And he said, sir, I woke up with completely different thoughts, and today I come to work and think not only about what I should do, but also about what will happen to me. Each self-government will have to, if he is a reasonable man, answer that question. And that's very dangerous. If you had completed this with some increase in the guarantee for these people, perhaps it would have made sense. But it's not there. As far as elections are concerned, the declarations are equally different here, and the reality is different. Ladies and gentlemen, the judicial system is replaced by an official system, read: actually a party system. Instead of clarity about which voice is important and which voice is not, we enter records that will cause chaos. And you don't listen to any warnings. And there's something else you can add in another grate, the former blur, and the voice will be important. I don't think there's anything like that anywhere. As far as the electoral districts are concerned, it will now continue to be decided by the municipalities in the local elections, but already in the next major elections, these national elections, they will be made by the commissioners of the party nomination. Instead of impartial, reliable, well-prepared commissioners with a lot of experience, you want nominations for people from whom this experience is not required. Instead of municipal officials who, you might say, ate their teeth in the election preparation and have it in their fingertips, we introduce election officials from the party nomination. Ladies and gentlemen, we listened to Mr PKW President here yesterday, who really warned about the mess, warned that this election could not be organised properly. You want transparency and you're putting up with art. 499, who forbids outsiders, outsiders to carry out agitations without the approval of the electoral committee under threat of punishment? It's now possible to organize on the side various entities, encourage different people, not count this to electoral expenses and run a dual, triple campaign in different places? And you're not listening to any arguments at all. Is that supposed to be transparency? Is this supposed to be an improvement in the operation of the entire process? That's the clarity of the results? That's not the point. [[Time's up, Senator.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. Because if that were the case, it would be a consultation of local government officials, consultation of interested people, listening to opinions. What do we got? We have omnipotence of power, arrogance of power, our own ideas that are pushed, you could say, forcefully, disregarding the constitution. The last sentence, because the marshal already reminds me of the passing of time. Not only is this law important for transparency and certainty of election results, for the functioning of local governments, but also for what happened yesterday. Because we know very well that the Supreme Court will be influenced by the Supreme Court, along with the President, by the Chamber which will decide the legality of the elections. So this law only complements the plan, the aim of which is to increase the influence of the rulers on the electoral process, on local governments and on the outcome of the elections. Therefore, I will remind you here of the words of the Supreme Court President, Judge Zabłocki, and this is what I would like to end: if there are no free courts And since yesterday, we know there won't be Nor will there be free elections, but, Dear Senators, High Izbo, will remain free Poles. Those are his words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u29	You have a voice, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's why we're here to find out. Unfortunately, there are so few people from the parliamentary majority that it will be difficult to convince anyone, but I am very happy that at least 5, 6 people from our decision-makers are listening. I am even more sorry that so few people yesterday listened to what the Chairman of the State Election Commission, Mr Hermelinski, said, because such a profound analysis and so devastating for this idea that you are pushing, I have not heard in a long time, well, maybe during the debate about the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council. The problem is that these words were spoken here by someone rather, looking at his past, you should have no doubt that he is not your adversary, because his entire way was somehow on your side. And this man, first of all, said that it was politicisation and that it had nothing to do with improving the conditions of Polish democracy, but secondly, warned you that the mess that occurred in 2014, this is, as they said on TV, a little bit of what you can do by adopting this law, to give to voters. Moreover, this was said by the man who headed the State Election Commission in 2015. At that time, you had no doubt that these elections were fair, that these elections were not falsified and that they were exemplary. And it is some scandal that the bill, a mechanism that operated in Poland almost impeccably, apart from this unfortunate book... Except that most admitted, even the state did, right to those who said that this unfortunate book was the cause of such and not another forgery, perhaps I can agree with that. selections in 2014, but it was not a fraud. And what are you doing? Are you trying to eliminate this? It's not in this project. Why doesn't any of you? Why doesn't most of you eliminate this basic mistake? He's staying. There's a rule that if you're proud of something, you show it to the world. Whether these are our ministers or yours, how you open the way that you've built, you're proud of it, you show it. Whole string of sets 'Cause it's a string. The KRS, the Supreme Court, and now this reform... Hmm, reform? It's not a reform, of course, it's a change in the electoral code. It just seems so strange that the debate on this subject is still covered up. As we talked about the Supreme Court last week, there were colleagues among you who were proud of it, said: great, wonderful, change! Well, how's something so great in your hand and you're proud of it, what, at the same moment, all of a sudden, you don't know why, you replace the Prime Minister to cover it up? You are not proud of this and you will not be proud. And it's the same with this bill. Suddenly, there are circumstances that make our citizens interested in other things. I don't believe in coincidences. I think it is simply organized in such a way that Poles do not notice this change. And that's a bad change. And it's very possible that you're giving yourselves a better chance in the next election right now. But in no way will this bill be written well, as a good change, in the history of our nation. Still in the case of these laws on courts, there was at least a certain appearance about the justice system, because with the assessment that our society must wait too long for justice in the courts, we all agree. I don't agree, of course. We disagree that those laws will speed things up. You know they're not gonna speed things up, but at least there was an appearance that something wasn't working. Here, however, you have adopted a law that has so far worked very well, which has been assessed in Europe. Its functioning, practice Very well for many, many years. And it's a law that, in a free election, when you had the current ruling power against each other, gave you the opportunity to choose and take over power. If she's so efficient, so good that for 20 years the authorities have been changing here like a kaleidoscope, why change her? Answer yourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u31	And you have a voice, Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refrain from discussing the detailed solutions to this law for a moment. I also listened very carefully yesterday, even though I was not present, even if the judge, the chairman of the committee, spoke. These are important matters. And what I'm going to say doesn't mean that I don't think it's important, but I'd like to invite you... to give us a moment to reflect on the essence of the election. In this term of office we have here, in the High House, a tradition of lectures, especially historical ones, on many different occasions. I don't know if this is a good time, but I have decided on this occasion to draw attention to a number of issues relating at all to the issue of election, election. What's all this about? We're focusing on the election procedure, and what I don't like here is this. But I don't want to impertinent anybody's evil intentions. That this certain fever or excitement with these procedures... It is in such a spirit that it is as if there is a suspicion that all of us are meant to construct electoral procedures to benefit from this political advantage. And that's a little disgusting for me. This isn't right. I hope that, despite such a suggestion or such impression, it is different, i.e. that we are here to develop objective, fair and reliable procedures, not to construct them on the basis of: that it is my environment or that I myself benefit. That's the first point. But it's worth asking about the essence of the thing, I mean, what exactly are the choices for? Because we are living at a time when election procedures and the process of making choices are often regarded as being a being as something... as a certain value in itself, as a moment of some democratic ecstasy, that is, there is some political elevation in which we make choices and thus fulfill the essence of our political freedom. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, that is not the case. Elections serve something more important They're a tool. The main values here are the common good, good governance of the state and finally freedom. It is therefore about securing our freedom, and elections are just a tool to secure this freedom. Freedom of elections is not identical to political freedom at all. Political freedom is wider, it is deeper. In our history, in our European tradition for many centuries there have been systems that have provided freedom, and elections have not been or have been marginal. And it's worth realizing. For this reason, I would like to go back to history, first to Plato, stressing that it is possible to accomplish the common good, freedom, not necessarily with the tool of free elections. Plato, in the State, is a well-known book, which on the one hand we criticize today, and some even regard it as a certain source or inspiration for the creation of a totalitarian state... I don't want in on this. However, it may be worth quoting one thought that Plato presents to us today, but it is worth considering. Why do people cling to power? Plato writes: "Neither do they want to rule good people for money, nor do they want to rule for honor. Because they do not want to be called nudes, nor do they want to make a secret profit from the rule of robbers. And neither is the honor. Because they're not hungry for honors. And then there's this, and I'm pretty sure this is where it went. Oh, that's the sentence I'd like to expose here. That he is a disgrace to himself to the government, not to wait for the necessity to come. Plato thinks that... well, Plato wasn't a democrat. And Plato thinks it's a disgrace to stick to the government alone, not to wait for the necessity to come. And he speaks of what a good man, a wise man, is possibly inclined to take up the service of the State. We, of course, live in a different culture, under different conditions, and for us it is not a disgrace. Well, that's not enough, because it's something normal to stick to governments and put your candidacy out, without it all would be impossible. But it is also worth remembering that for many centuries in our tradition such a thought as this one and such an idea also functioned, and it did not function badly. What Plato draws attention to, but also what the great tradition behind it indicates, is that something more important than the electoral procedure, because electoral procedures are secondary to the preparation of candidates for office, as well as people who choose and participate in these procedures. There's like a dog buried, and there's a secret to the success of a good or poorly governed state: not in election procedures, but in the way people are prepared, in the education of these people. Right? And it is, of course, contrary to our democratic dogma that one citizen has one voice, regardless of the degree of its preparation, but for many centuries in our tradition such a system has functioned. And another thought, another political heresy from the point of view of today's pragmatism, the way of thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, the culture of electoral procedures... ♪ 'Cause in Greece ♪ Okay, maybe one more thought. If the candidates were properly selected, if they fulfilled certain conditions, the person could actually be drawn freely from among those candidates. The procedure is kind of secondary. The most objective and fair indeed would be the drawing procedure, and the Greeks often simply followed such procedures. For us it is a procedure, well, not rational, although at some moments we also resort to drawing lots. The second heresy is that the culture of electoral procedures, because today we live in a culture of electoral procedures, was born in the Middle Ages, so at this time, which we treat as dark, ancient, because we are light children of enlightenment, and medieval is a dark civilization night. This is a huge misunderstanding based on oblivion. And a concrete example of this oblivion is that the culture of electoral procedures developed in the Middle Ages. At the convents first. The statutes of the Orders... the Orders were those communities which, on the basis of statutes, regulations in a very thoughtful, subtle way made choices of their authorities. We don't remember that at all. The second space is the cities, the culture of medieval cities, the statutes of cities, which were also self-government institutions and in which electoral procedures were created. It is finally universities, university communities, in which until today the choice of the rector is actually an extension or continuation of culture from a thousand years ago. On the one hand, we feel that this is a fair way of choosing, but on the other hand we see that it is not a democratic way in the sense that each voice weighs the same. At the university where there are 20,000 students, students choose 20 of their representatives, and, say, 400 professors, if there are so many of them, choose 70 representatives to the college, which ultimately elects the rector. This is based on the weight of the votes and this system makes deep sense. In a similar way, not exactly identical, but similar, also elected city councils, and not so long ago. It is worth noting that 100 years ago, so not so long ago, at the beginning of the 20th century the municipal council elections were elections in groups of voters, the vote was differently weighted and those who paid the highest taxes had the highest status of education within the municipal community, and there were relatively few, a few percent, often had 1/3 of their representatives on the city council. It still worked... [[Time's up.]] ...at the beginning of the century. Maybe there's a break in the lecture and maybe five more minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u33	Thank you. You have the voice of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You need to know when the judicial system was put in place. Because the judicial system is the foundation of the electoral system. In the State Election Commission, judges are those who organise, supervise elections, and also elected commissioners. This judicial system was introduced in 1991. At the same time, a National Judicial Council was set up to provide a buffer guaranteeing the independence of the courts from the executive authority. It was 1991, too. It doesn't matter. These two major changes were made at the time, because lessons were learned from the experience of communism when there were votes, but there were no elections. At that time, the electoral commissioners were the people appointed by the Council of State and the principle was that they should have legal education. The piss comes back to that rule. To be elected commissioner or to be at the National Election Office, in this crucial place for the election procedure, all you need to do is have legal education. And don't tell me this is a judge-citizen system, there will be only two judges per nine members of the State Election Commission. And the others? It's enough legal education. This is a departure from those rules that guaranteed equality for everyone in the election. The judge with his position, with his independence, guaranteed equality in the election. If you say it increases the independence of the election, it increases the protection of the electoral process against any distortion, then you have to take it. to take account of this situation. You withdraw the judges who oversee and organize these elections. This undermines the principle of independence of electoral authorities, which is a very important element in assessing the legitimacy of elections by those who lose. Because in the election, some win, others lose. It is important that those bodies that oversee, organise, be impartial enough to make sure that no one has any doubts. about their integrity. And if you eliminate, you withdraw judges from these organs, in my opinion, these doubts will be greater, not smaller. Why are you doing this? The Head of the National Election Office, i.e. this electoral apparatus, shall appoint the Minister without any agreement of the Chairman of the State Election Commission. The President does not have to give his consent, although he is responsible for the electoral process. This is an important issue, very important, but not the most important one. The most important thing is that, in line with the proposal made by the PiS, it is not possible for judges to supervise and organise the electoral process. That's the most important thing. Why is this happening? I'll be right back. You're creating the Election Corps, they're gonna be completely new people. This will make it possible to wipe out those officials who have so far, since many elections Some parties were winning and others were losing. They functioned in this system. Why? Probably just to have a few thousand, five thousand jobs to fill again. There is no other explanation for such a decision and such a record. Besides, how can these elections and those who control these elections, how can all be better, be more transparent when the members of the regional electoral committees can carry out electoral aggression? Aside from the polls, but they can participate in agitation. An official, a member of the electoral commission, is independent and objective... Well, the quality of his independence doesn't have to do him any good? He's objective when he sits in a polling place, and when he leaves the polling place, he doesn't have to be objective and he can agitate for one of the candidates? How do you reconcile that? Why is such a provision introduced? Well, a provision is also introduced that eliminates financial control and financial constraints. Financial restrictions have been introduced following experience that has shown that those who have more money are easier to win elections. If someone throws $5 million and another throws only $50,000... it's known to be inequality. This inequality has been limited by the introduction of limits and control of expenditure. You eliminate, PiS eliminates this control and limits because it introduces the principle that other organizations, without the consent of the candidate who will say: I didn't know, I didn't agree; what I will do is that the whole city is bequeathed and that 7 million... [[Time's up.]] He'll say, "I've got nothing to do with it." This is going. towards an oligarchisation of political life. Whoever has the money will be able to organize elections and support for the candidate. 'Cause this isn't about the candidate giving that money. And that's the danger. This is a proposal based on some kind of obsession. An obsession with the 2014 elections Because of this obsession, you want to ban correspondence voting involving disabled people, but this correspondence vote has a much wider scope, including those who live elsewhere and who can send their votes. You can't explain it any other way than obsession, but obsession doesn't give you anything good. You're going in a very bad direction. The ruling party is going in a very bad direction. After the courts, you have dealt with elections and local governments, elections above all, as well as the control of the financing of political parties, because there will also be a situation in which political parties will control their own expenditure. Well, it's just surprising. [[Mr. Marshal, time has passed.]] But I am talking about this because free Poland is free courts and free elections. And we're not gonna get that. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just as we are discussing the Supreme Court Act, not only are we discussing really fundamental matters that build our sense of security, but we also want this discussion to convince us that these democratic foundations that we have built are really lasting. If we're gonna talk about elections, especially the local elections that are closest to us. In the municipality, in the town, in the district We should really prepare for such a discussion very seriously and not write these laws quickly, not write these laws without public consultation, and especially without the serious debate that should take place, not only with voters, but above all with those who work every day in local governments, act, survive many elections and know exactly what it looks like. There's one thing I'm worried about. I'm gonna walk away from those threads that were just touched. I would like to draw your attention to another topic. Well, I'm worried that there was no consultation that didn't talk, for example. With the Association of Polish Cities, that at the public hearing, at which there was a very interesting debate, there was no government party, there was no clear, clear voice as regards the Law and Justice, or the ruling party today. On 14 December this year, an open meeting of the Commission for Dialogue and Partnership of the Polish Towns Association in Dąbrowa Górnicza took place, where, in addition to the electoral issues, discussions were also started on this law so that it could be colored. or show that it has a slightly broader scope and treats not only elections. I'm thinking about civic budgets. When I listen to these debates, and especially to the speeches of the politicians of the governing party, there are always such assurances that it is all in order to make things better, clearer, safer, fairer and so on. Okay, well, if it's a declaration like that today, I look at my colleagues from Law and Justice, who also have a majority in this Chamber. If you are so interested in this transparency, clarity, competence, etc., I have a warm request for you. I would like to make three amendments, which are absolutely not related to politics or even elections, but to what is happening to the law on these particular citizens' budgets. The 5th edition of the civil budget has already taken place. Local governments meet and sum up every year, what it looked like in individual municipalities, and draw conclusions. In fact, it is very positive how people are drawn to co-decision on the budget, but the local government also sees the dangers and wrote about these threats to me. They also proposed amendments. These are three amendments concerning precisely how municipalities, powiats and local governments should behave and how this should be resolved. If you really don't care about time, if you don't want to push it through with your knee, if you don't want this bill to be adopted quickly, but you want it to be the rules that will actually make the local government work better, that we will learn from the experience of previous years, that we will look at the electoral act and what will happen later, so that it will be better, then please accept these 3 amendments. They speak in a very clear and clear way... today they give municipalities, powiats, local government units a tool to shape the citizen's budget, drawing lessons from previous years' experience. I'm asking you to. I tabled these amendments to the secretariat yesterday. It's about budgets. It will also be a little bit of a test on whether you really want to discuss and debate, or whether you want a bill to be adopted so that we can sort things out before Christmas. Then no one's gonna care about it, 'cause it's gonna be Christmas. It would be very dangerous for democracy. Once again, I stress: just like the Supreme Court Act, the election law is something fundamental in democracy. I repeat, fundamental. It's very dangerous to tamper with such laws. Remember, if there are mistakes, they will touch everyone. Perhaps today there is such a feeling among you that if you have most, you can do anything. You know exactly that's not true. All control mechanisms, protection mechanisms, mechanisms that often push the parliamentary majority away from pointing fingers, are very important in elections and post-election issues. Please, colleagues, please accept these amendments. I already, as I said, submitted them in writing to the secretariat. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u37	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Gawl.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with what's been in my head for years. I'd like to share my thoughts with you. I'm in favour of one-mandate electoral districts. I knew prof. An appetizer. In 2002 I joined the JOW movement in Poland. In examining the last 27 years, I must tell you that what is happening in the local government requires some reflection and we should probably talk about it here today. In 1993 I took up self-government activities. As you remember, it was a special year for Poland, because the result of the elections was a rather interesting change of power. Namely, a very large part of the apparatus of the former PZPR began again to influence power, only in a rested form. As a young man, I thought there was something wrong with our democracy, since people who supported the totalitarian system begin to rule in democratic Poland. At the time, I felt that the introduction of JOW would lead to the fact that we could actually create new elites. The same was said by Professor Attack, returning to the Round Table discussion and why proportional elections were introduced. If a single-mandate district system were introduced in 1989, there would probably be a thorough exchange of elites. This thesis is quite alive in many environments. Now I'm gonna talk about observing what it all looks like. It turned out that the single-mandate district system was not introduced globally, throughout the system. In the parliamentary elections, he is, let's say, residual and only valid in the Senate elections. Looking at this, we can conclude that what the Kukiz movement is calling for today is, in a sense, dogmatic. They assume that JOW will heal everything and lead to the exchange of elites, to the departure from partying. Well, it turns out where it works, it doesn't. It doesn't work like those ideologically looking at the problem. Looking at the so-called. big policy, despite the fact that, as I have already declared, I'm a supporter of JOW, sometimes you have to look at the problem globally... I will support this law because I see in it things that are beneficial for civil society and will seriously affect changes in the local government. As for the discussion that is taking place here on this bill, I would like to return to a few statements by the opposition senators. Senator Zdrojewska talked about the fact that allowing the councilmen to discuss this will lead to the fact that the councillors will speak for a very long, long time and so on. Well, it's true, it's just, ladies and gentlemen, let's look at ourselves. We're asking questions, too, over and over. Let's hear it... Well, sometimes the same question in different forms is repeated ten or fifteen times. And we've been discussing it for a very long time. I remember that in 2002, when I became president of the city council in my city, in Gniezno, then we immediately introduced recording sessions that could be watched on the Internet. And so, it happened that the councilmen, who talked as much as they talked, began to talk for a very long time, the sessions lasted six to eight hours sometimes. But that's democracy. Besides, I like what Senator Zdrojewska has called for, but I also want to look at whether you are employed in offices by people associated with the family, but there are people who are not in the family and are in a relationship. Even separate declarations are fulfilled and officially no one is able to come actually... Well, they have a common budget, but it's out of the form... As for what Senator Florek said about a rational approach to the submission of a civil project, I also believe that it is a rational concept to prepare at least legal opinions. As far as Senator Libicki is concerned, she is quite brave, but I think we will one day have a vote on the Internet, sooner or later. I'm not going to develop this thread because we know what's going on. I would also like to refer to Senator Augustine's statement. I must say, Mr. Senator, very often your speeches on account of your oratory talent seem to me to be, at least, cassandric. Sometimes I feel like tomorrow's the end of the world. I assure you, it won't end. Well, unless providence wishes otherwise. But I think this bill is not as terrible as you think it is. And I'm going to try to make some arguments for this here. I'm saying this from my experience. For many years, 15 years, in the local government, I performed various functions. Ladies and gentlemen, in my constituency, I hardly know of situations where the council would be able to seriously influence the governor, the mayor or the president, except in sick situations, when the mayor is unable to perform his duties. The power that we gave to the one-man power The implementing entity is virtually unlimited. The mayor or the mayor, whether the president has two instruments in his hands. The first is a financial instrument related to the entire budget and the second is an instrument of employment. The smaller the municipality, the worse, because practically the office becomes the main employer. Not only the office itself as an institution but also the subordinates Company, school etc. Well, it's something unhealthy, because then people don't talk the way they think, they just naturally submit to the power that feeds them. Yeah, well, that's something to think about. And this bill gives the board a lot of prerogative. I'm not just talking about the fact that now the council will be able to create its own demands separately... First of all, look at the things that are going, it's important what I say now. From indirect democracy, which is in local government, to more direct democracy. Because that is what citizens can do at Council meetings. I remember that when I introduced something like this in 2003, it was a total resistance of the councillors, which I would say was the establishment that was already chosen there every now and then: "How will it be?" People are gonna scream... I did it consciously, realizing... Then, unfortunately, they came and resented me for things. I had to listen to them because I thought that as a councilman, and especially as a chairman... Who do I serve? Me, the group I was elected from, or the citizens? That was my thinking. And we have to deal with that, too. If this bill comes into force, it will no longer be possible to sweep under the carpet of some problems. According to the law, you know this well, councillors who write interpellations and who demand some knowledge, e.g. information on the operation of companies, receive very editing data That's the law. And they find out almost nothing, and certainly not about employment. Ladies and gentlemen, councilmen are hired, and this is how you buy votes or gain recognition for your uncle or mayor. These are procedures that should not be adopted with applause in democracy, especially by the parliament that creates the law. Control functions are very important and we should take care of them. The results of the votes should be made public. That's the way it is with us. Anyone can look and see who behaves. Come on. As for the introduction of the project... Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to civil society. If NGOs come up with something that is feasible at community level, real to do, they can report a project. It hasn't been like this so far. All the projects were sort of filtered by the chairman of the board. Who really decided this kind of thing? Well, the chairman's always consulted the governor. That's what it looked like. I think it's time to balance the executive and resolution power in the municipality somehow. Come on. Possibility to speak. That's what I've been talking about. The mayor, the mayor, the president, will no longer be able to moonlight on the board of directors in another city. He could have done it so far, and that's how he expanded his home budget. You had to be very perceptive to figure it out somehow. Now a five-year term... Well, I guess it's better... Those who have some experience in local government know what a 4-year term looks like, especially for a newcomer. A newcomer comes and needs to build a power unit around him, he needs to learn everything... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...and then he's only two years old to rule. Last year is an election campaign. Five more minutes, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u39	Good. Senator Jan Żaryn. There's no senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, you're welcome. [[It's always streamed. If your marshal's driving, he's eating me up.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So that I don't forget, I'm gonna start with an amendment that I'd like to make regarding the restoration of the article. 499. That's what we've been talking about here today. I'd like to ask if you as Senators of Law and Justice... I believe that this law comes from your hearts and minds. However, I would like to ask whether you are in favour of such solutions where the candidate in the election could be financed as if outside the limit. If not, support the draft law restoring the situation in which the expenditure limit is set. And if you wish that without the agreement of the committee and without the consent of the candidate you can present the advantages of this candidate, leave what you propose in the bill. Do you want an American system where there are no limits to spending on an election campaign? If you want to say yes, we want the candidate to have unlimited opportunities in terms of financial expenses for the election campaign. I think six months ago, the President of the State Election Commission said that there are no instruments to watch over spending during the election campaign. And what you are proposing is that it already deprives the State Election Commission of any supervision over expenditure, control of expenditure. So make it a declaration: yes, we are abolishing the spending limits on the election campaign, so that I will not mention anybody by name here in a free, uncontrollable way to pursue political goals. That is why I am proposing an amendment on the liquidation of this project, which consists in uncontrolled spending money on electoral campaigns, apart from the official money that will be spent by the committee or the candidate concerned. Mrs. Marshal, I make such an amendment. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor, I'm addressing Professor Bobka here. As always, I must say with great joy I listen to the illiterate disciple of the professor, the Professor's words, because this is an example of discussion, discussion conducted by people whose purpose is the good of the state, not political interests or interests of one man, two or ten people. Professor, to what you said, I would like to recall the words of a man who, in his life from the great, could say, the enemy of democracy has passed gradually, understanding it more and more... Well, Plato ranked systems and systems from the best, of course, according to Plato, to the worst. I would like you to be here, especially to my sympathetic colleagues in Law and Justice, to answer the question where we are. Plato said that the most fair way is the just kingdom, the next is aristocracy, then a just democracy, then an unfair democracy, then an oligarchy, and the worst system is tyranny. It's worth asking yourself that question. Professor, it's beautiful that you've summoned this thinker, who shows what elements to think about. And the same Plato, ladies and gentlemen, also said what the perfect country is. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like Senator Rulewski to listen as well. [[Yeah, I'm listening. Monarchy is...]] Well, this ideal country is a country in which its citizens have a sense of community and mutual friendship. This is the model of the perfect state. Well, as I've been looking at what's been going on over the last two years, it's a little bit to that ideal, and we're missing the Sèvres pattern. All right. Plato also describes the professor, I think he knows who the statesman is. Well, we now have a statesman, we know who he is, and I'm not gonna say because of the pre-Christmas period, but I'm gonna recall Plato's words, just like the professor. Who's the man of the state? Plato describes two types of statesmen. The first type is a tyrant, a tyrant doctor. Plato says the best statesman is a doctor, because he's working on it... I'm not gonna make that statement, or I'm gonna make a mistake. In any case, one of these types is a tyrant doctor who treats patients forcefully, regardless of their suggestions or requests. [[Applause]] But I'm asking... Sorry, he later describes the second type of statesman, obviously referring to a doctor. Well, he's the best man in the state. I suspect for Poland as well. It's a free doctor. Now I'm going to read it so that I don't get it wrong: he's doing a treatment by telling the sick about his art and sharing his knowledge with them, he doesn't prescribe any medicine until he convinces them of its effectiveness and gets permission for his treatment. [[Applause]] These are two types of statesmen. Where are we closer? I think that the state in the flow of goodness, along with the arrival of Christmas in hearts and minds, will answer this question. Mrs. Marshal, Dear Izbo, since we have the Advent period, I hope we will make it to Christmas Eve, I would like to thank your Marshal very warmly, and to thank your Marshal and your Marshal for being here in the High House. We're here shortly before Christmas Eve, wondering if we can make it to Christmas Eve. After all, we could be today... after all, each of us has hundreds of invitations and could be with pensioners, with pensioners, at all kinds of meetings. And we are building its power with great dedication to Poland. We're building a great power. Thanks to our work, ladies and gentlemen, Poland is growing in strength. I want to tell you that we have become one of two countries... Especially because of your activity, because we might actually work and on Christmas Eve. So we've become one of the most popular countries in the media in the world. There are two... [[It's thanks to you.]] Senator, I'll tell you. There are two countries that lead the primacy. This is North Korea, it is known for what reasons, and Poland, because it has become an island of freedom. I mean... I'm speaking in quotes. So you don't understand that I'm literally saying that we've been rewarded here... Well, ladies and gentlemen, last year, thanks to your commitment, so to speak, we have joined in the fact that our country is on top in several areas. I am talking about 2016, 2017 will be even better. You're good at crossing the plan. As in the system that Janek and many friends have overthrown. Well, in 2016, ladies and gentlemen, we were rewarded. We're in first place, we're an island... It's a total victory. We have produced thanks to you, Ladies and gentlemen, the largest number of documents, 33 thousand pages of the manuscript, which anyone who would like to read and read them would have to read throughout the year after 4 hours a day. Ladies and gentlemen, can you be great? You can be great. And we're a great country. And knowing you, I know that we, as the Senate, are going to go beyond this value through your initiative. We will be shown as an island of freedom and an House of lawmaking, which no one reads or reads. Because, as I know life, most of the laws that come to us at night, which we consider in the morning... For example, the Act on Loved Education, 600 pages. She came to us last night, and this morning we gave her a resolution. It's called reading skills! No one in the world has ever had one of these. [[Quick reading with understanding.]] One night, Senator, 600 pages read with understanding. [[Twice.]] And that understanding, ladies and gentlemen, is coming out today. If you want to read what great things we've introduced, please read the letters to your spokesperson from your parents about what's going on at the Polish school. But that's not what I'd like to talk about. Ladies and gentlemen, this reminds me of the atmosphere... Because we are in the pre-Christmas period, we work hard, the enemy stands at the borders, at the gates of Poland, so we must work as I understand. Because if it were normal, all of us would be in our hometown today, meeting, like I said, with different kinds of environments, your wife would be helping... And your wife keeps calling, will you come or won't you come? I say this year I don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u41	Mr. Senator, and this attention... [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] ...you've completed your speech because it's been ten minutes. [[I'd like another five minutes.]] Good. [[But it doesn't matter to his wife that the senator comes, or he wouldn't be telling so much. No?]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. Senator...]] And Senator Bobko. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The discussion, as I see it, is prolonged, so that maybe it's just a conclusion on my part. I would not like to inspire further lectures and philosophical reflections. Maybe for Christmas and New Year's. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And just one last thought. The purpose of my speech was to make us all a little more humble to what we are doing and to what we are proposing. Right? Because today we live in such a strong belief that these are the principles that function, are the nature of unbalanced dogmas, that it has always been so. "Equality of elections, equality of votes." Today we take this positively as a civilizational possession. But a little more humility, because these are new, innovative solutions, actually functioning from 100, and actually for about 70 years, when it comes to equality of votes, about women's electoral rights. Right? And here we should also say that in terms of this democratic culture, the culture of elections or the introduction of equal electoral procedure, Poland has always been a pioneer. Poland was the first in Europe to introduce a constitution and as one of the first countries in the 20th century voting law for women. So that we have some reasons to be satisfied here. Finally, I would like to highlight with all my power what I have already said and where I started. Freedom of elections, and especially participation in the electoral procedure, is a substitute, is only part of the implementation of political freedom. Political freedom is much more important, deeper. This whole thing is about us living in a free country, and freedom of elections is just a tool, one of the possible tools for this idea. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u43	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I bow to the knowledge of Professor Bobka. I listened attentively to his reflections on Plato's philosophy, but personally I would advise against the High House to follow its path, the way of Plato's philosophy, and the way of thinking that democracy, that elections are only a part of political freedom, and that this political freedom of citizens can cope without elections, because it was relatively late in historical development and was entered in the catalogue of political freedoms. Professor, it is such that free elections are a prerequisite for political freedom and that no enlightened monarch is present, who, while exercising absolute power, would at the same time, through a constitution or in any other way, provide freedom for his citizens. This was the case at the time of the enlightened British monarchy, and that is why the philosophers of the English Enlightenment, who, I understand, are not particularly close to the professor, especially John Locke, were able to imagine that in an undemocratic system freedom can be provided. They have always stressed that it can only be ensured by the rule of law, and that the rule of law is something that you are leaving, that is something that was finally denied in the President's speech yesterday. This speech resulted in the process of dismantling the rule of law in Poland being completed, that art. 2 constitutions, saying that Poland is a democratic state of law, in the rule of law part has passed into history, and our attachment to the rule of law and to the fact that the law is above political power, and not political power over law, remains only in our hearts. I repeat, it is only in our hearts. So such reasoning, Professor, is dangerous. Today at the time of retreat, at the time of this third phase of retreat from democracy If we use the words of Huntington or Schumpeter, such reasoning can lead us to antiliberal astray. In other words, strengthen something that is being done by a ruling group in Poland at the moment. Poland, which belonged to the avant-garde If you use your definition of "third countries" of the wave of democratisation, it is now becoming part of the avant-garde of a third wave of retreat from democracy, thanks to the PiS government. I'm afraid so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u45	Senator Waldemar Sługocki. There you go, Mr. Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u46	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, it's hard not to speak on such fundamental issues, important not only for democracy, but also for civil liberties. Undoubtedly, the birth of local government in Poland was an extremely important event. This occurred in the early 1990's and was directly related to the socio-economic changes that took place at the end of the 1980's. Poland, as has rightly been noted here, has been a part of the absolute European avant-garde in terms not only of pace, but also of quality, the depth of socio-economic change. One of the achievements of these changes was the birth of local government. It is worth recalling that already on 8 March 1990 the Parliament of that time, the Sejm passed the Law on the Government of the Basic Level. At that time, the government played an extraordinary role in the process of transformation, in organizing the lives of ordinary citizens, each of us, every day. He was on guard of spending public money, effective spending of public money. It was also thanks to the activity of the then local authorities that Poland used its chances well. Self-governments were strongly involved in Polish efforts to integrate with the European Union. Self-governments reached for pre-accession money perfectly, modernising our immediate surroundings. Hundreds of thousands of important investments have been built to change our daily lives. Together with the process of European integration, Poland also assessed, reflections were all that was happening in the local government. Knowing that the process of integration is progressing, and with it further financial opportunities are opening up, Poland has gradually matured until the introduction of further levels of local government. This became a reality as a consequence of 5 June 1998 when two successive levels of local government were established, namely the district and voivodeship level. The territorial government has repeatedly proven that it fits into such an important, fundamental principle of subsidiarity, the principle of subsidiarity from the point of view of the Polish Constitution. The local government has shown that in an efficient, extremely beneficial way not only for the Polish state, but above all for citizens, it fulfils its functions and competences. At the time, the decision-makers, then parliamentarians, were mature enough to organize public life so that local government units would take a large part of the responsibility for organizing the life of Poles, but also investing in the development of the Polish state. It is thanks to the work of many thousands of Polish self-governments that Poland belongs to the fastest growing European countries, to countries that make excellent use of their place in an integrated Europe, they are local governments. Their prudentness, efficiency, pragmatism each day contributed to the fact that today Poland is... was until recently, I say it with regret, a significant country, a country in an absolute vanguard not only in terms of changes in the organisation of life in the local government, but in terms of civilizational changes. Today, unfortunately, I don't think we can talk about it anymore, as I also stress with great regret and regret. The decisions of the European institutions. But I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this discussion... [[Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes.]] I've got 10 minutes. This is my first statement. [[Voice from the room: Yes, first.]] [[Excuse me, sir. I'm so sorry.]] You're welcome. [[Finish it now.]] [[Your marshal apologized.]] [[There you go. I'm sorry.]] And I'm not mad at your marshal. It's okay, Mrs. Marshal. I'll continue. [[There you go.]] Thank you very much. Uh... [[And yet it did.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Well, then the man is so broken.]] The local government is making excellent use of its opportunity. But I hope, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, that this debate, this discussion, will still lead us to reflect, to real reflection. I hope that when we talk about local government, referring to electoral law, we will think about all these wonderful people who have contributed consistently, gradually to the development of local government in Poland, and thus the development of our country. It is worth mentioning the prominent self-government of Falce, the award of his name, which today the self-governments appreciate for the effort they make every day, often without the flash and the first pages of the newspapers. Nearly 2.5 thousand Polish self-government officials every day in this small Poland, the local is making an effort to provide their residents, and the youngest ones, and the oldest ones... It is about access to kindergartens, crèches and schools, about the level of education, the equipment of these facilities being as high as possible. They make sure that cities and villages are clean, scanned, good roads, that they are snowed, that these cities and villages are colorful, colorful, and that people can function calmly, so that we can smile every day. And today, what are you serving us? You serve that those local leaders who with great determination, passion, pro publico bono will not be able to carry out their duties. Because you say that a self-governmentman can only be effective for two terms, can function well, and the third and subsequent terms are related to irregularities, corruption, negative behaviours of self-government. Why, ladies and gentlemen? I know a lot of mayors, mayors, presidents who've been in power for a few, a dozen or so term, and they're doing it in an excellent way. Every four years they are verified by their constituents. How to explain that I will use a concrete example The mayor of such a municipality in Lubuskie voivodeship as Bytom Odrzański Jacek Sauter wins every election campaign and receives 90% support? Why do you want to limit this man's ability to exercise public authority when he has due respect, authority and does his work with incredible passion, commitment, good consequences for the local community? Why? Why do you think that the mayors, mayors and presidents should only exercise their functions for two terms, and why do you have no doubt about us, about the senators, about the Members? How are we different? We are also verified by Poles, by the sovereign, by the citizen. Oh, that's not enough, ladies and gentlemen. Please note that the activity of Poles in the local elections is much higher. Poles are more willing to take part in local elections, identify themselves with their own leaders. Often it is not an anonymous choice, and it is a direct choice: it is our neighbor, a friend, a family friend, the father of a friend of our child. However, greater anonymity is in the case of elections to the Sejm or to the Senate. Nevertheless, you have doubts about the effectiveness of the proper functioning of the voivodships, mayors and presidents, and therefore, in an absolutely incomprehensible way to me, you want to limit their execution of this vocation. I have doubts, ladies and gentlemen, whether you will accidentally fire your child with a bath, or not, that we will lead to a situation in which the real leaders will not want to have a public life. Because who will want to give up their previous career, knowing that only by two terms will he be able to serve Poles locally? Yes, it is possible to verify And that's a good thing, 'cause there's a need. Every four years, each of the local authorities should be verified. But if this verification is positive, why do we not want to give local communities the opportunity to verify them in subsequent units of time? I think it's reprehensible, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this is a restriction of the civil liberties of all Poles who want to patronize themselves... who want to work actively for local communities. [[Time.]] Thank you very much. Let me finish my statement later. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u47	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go. Five minutes, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! It's hard not to be alarmed and pessimistic at a time like this, Mr. Senator Gaweł. Yesterday I had this sense of disaster. Poland as the only country branded for breaking the rule of law... Whose rule of law? Whose rights? EU? No. The rights of Polish citizens and citizens of the Union, which the Union has a duty to ask for. Yesterday, the President signs laws showing how he feels about this case, the whole world, not only the European Union, but also the United States, the free world. And today and yesterday we are discussing this bill, which is a continuation of the same line. Forgive me, I am indeed an emotional man, I probably shout more often than I say, for which I am sorry. But here, emotions are in place. It's been a long time since there's been such an emotion, and it doesn't have to be... But I came out here not to talk about it, just to talk about two things to complete my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, we always create the law for the future. Senator Libicki mentioned this, saying, among other things. Online elections. But in the same perspective, I would like to see the issues of correspondence choices, correspondence votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the President of the Parliamentary Group for the European Union. Care for the Incredible. From year to year, a large group of older people lose their ability and become independent. And these people don't have a disability ruling at all, yet, but they can't move on their own to go to the polls. The attorney won't be able to help you in this case, because you have to tell yourself that I'm gonna get it in the commune, you have to be able to get it in the first place. The correspondence vote gives these people a chance to participate in the elections as long as possible. We have heard Senator Grodzki talking about information about the extent to which other countries use this method. Why should we take this opportunity away from the elderly? If you had included elements here that would limit the possibility of abuse using this instrument, if you had included elements that would lead to the promotion of correspondence voting, I would say that we are going into the future, we are going towards good. Unfortunately, it's not. And as Senator Żaryn pointed out here, we have every right to be ashamed of ourselves in front of Polonia. The Senate, the guardian of Polonia, tells our compatriots that many of them will not be able to take a correspondence vote in a situation where so many Poles work abroad and will not always be able to afford it at this date. Either come here or go to the urn somewhere in a foreign country. It's a shameful thing. You have tabled an amendment, but no one knows what it says. We can't refer to her. This is an outrageous situation at all. How are we supposed to sit? We'll never have a chance to do that again, those who aren't on the right committee. That's why I think this move is absolutely unnecessary. Well, Senator Lightning said... [[Time.]] ...let's get right to it, fix it and bring back what was. [[Mr. Senator, time.]] I'm almost done. And I propose one simple move: let's delete it today, let's just delete it today. There's an opportunity for this, there's a chance for this, let's do what Senator Zaryn is calling for in an uncertain future, because he was talking about these things with some embarrassment, as he worked for Polonia. I support him. But I say it's an opportunity, let's vote. Finally, I would like to join you in what Senator Slugocki said. The local government passed the exam, the local government has huge, if not the biggest, merits for the development of Poland. He's not free of flaws, as Senator Gawel said, I support that, I agree. However, it is difficult to find an institution in Poland or not much, especially public, institutions with as much trust as self-government. Let's build it, not ruin it. As far as the issue of two-cadence is concerned, I would just like to repeat here what I said at the committee meeting. In my constituency in the last 2 elections 70% local leaders... [[Mr. Senator, seven minutes...]] ...has been changed. The voters can exercise their rights. There is no need to artificially limit the number of terms of office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u49	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Jarosław Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to start with a pretty fundamental case. Well, I have the impression that the elections in 2014 were unreliable, not that they were dishonest, but that they were unreliable. And I would say that if you applied some statistical knowledge to them and compared it to the previous results, you could see that some strange things were happening, because in a given municipality suddenly some party has a score 3 times better than in a community next door without any deeper historical justification or connected with a leader. What did the committee do? She counted the votes randomly in some committees, not in those where, according to the data, it was statistically absurd. This is a bad witness to the election committees in my opinion, but also causes Poles to have some suspicion about counting the results of the elections. Please note that there was a massive movement during the parliamentary elections, a good civic movement that tried to control them, so that there would be no electoral fraud. It seems to me that right now it is extremely important to restore confidence in the integrity of elections. But there are some problems here. This restoration of reliability takes place at 2 levels: actual and related to a certain feeling. When we study e.g. security, that is the actual measurement, whether it is safe in Poland or not, and it is the measurement, as the inhabitants themselves perceive it. In the case of elections, these two factors are extremely important. And a lot of the provisions of this law, in my opinion, restores this credibility. I understand that there are also those raised by the opposition, which can be received, and are received by it, differently. And I would say that for this reason this shift of Commissioners and that in the future it will be more state-owned than self-government, it may not be a good solution at this time of political upheaval. However, I would say that this is generally a good solution, which means that in general control should be more state-owned than self-government. Second thing. You told the senator that locals get up at work every morning and that kindergartens are colorful, that grass is green and people smile. Well, I'd say that bill won't stop it. I have such a deep conviction. I agree that self-government is one of the things that really worked out very well for us in Poland, only that I have the impression that there is a crisis of this self-government and that we need a certain development impulse. The government started boxing somewhere, I mean... In my opinion, there are several different elements that... I'm gonna talk about the big city perspective here. No legislation on urban policies, no agglomeration law, constant amendment of spatial planning laws... In addition, competence between different levels is needed, because these competences are often contradictory, and in the long term rethinking the issue of the income of municipalities, powiats and regions. This is a task that maybe will create a new impetus for development. Yeah, but this bill doesn't really apply much to that. It's not a law that's gonna trigger some new trend. I also have the feeling that it's written from the perspective of opposition, self-government opposition. To make it clear. Hence the mandatory review committee, the easy access to information. Well, a process, let's call it democratization, but he... it happened to me that in the local government most of the time or almost always I was on the side that ruled, not the side that was in opposition. I'd say it's not like the opposition is always right. Right? There are some things here that might be dangerous, but on the other hand... Like Senator Gaweł said, democracy sometimes prolongs the deliberations, sometimes it is a certain discomfort, but perhaps a certain agreement on this talk is based. I doubt we're breaking the subsidiarity rules somewhere. It is that there must be a review committee, that it must be given to the head of the opposition, that there must be a report on the state of the commune, that there must be a participatory budget, etc. Here we're trying to regulate a little... Well, maybe it's some kind of attempt to give a new impulse. I miss a few things in this bill, but I'll tell you one thing. Senator Czarnobaj talked about it a little bit. I think we should raise the spending limit in the alderman election. I have the feeling that this is something that I'm going to use specifically this word In general, they were broken at the municipal elections. That's wrong, because to get into the legislative body, into the city council... Already at the beginning, a large proportion of people are burdened with the sin of breaking the rules. This can, of course, be encapsulated in a manner such as: Happens in France. There's no right for a councilman. This is not an American solution on the basis of everything allowed to hang billboards. He's got more to say, coming out his score than... [[Five minutes, Mr. Senator.]] [[But the senator had ten...]] [[Oh, I'm sorry.]] Yeah, I had 10 minutes. [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] No, no... I control time. That's a pretty important element for me that wasn't here. I would, however, like him to be considered, perhaps also in relation to his candidacy to the Sejm. Two terms, I really am in favour of two terms. I'm in favour of extending by a year... five years or four years is an important difference if it starts. I think it's a good change. I have a problem with this... You say that this is a limitation of certain passive rights, that it will cause irreversible losses, because no one will want to go to elections and exercise the duties of president or mayor if he has a perspective of only 10 years' work. Where in Poland is any job in which we have a perspective of 10 years... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Perhaps... [[Verification after the first 5 years may be negative.]] But of course... [[Don't go into the debate with the senator.]] I would say that we have rather a problem with a certain political culture within individual political groups, namely that we lack foundations that give some time for depreciation to those who lose elections, what happens, and suddenly, even after 20 years of working in the Sejm, they need to redefine themselves, find others, etc. It's probably the same with the presidents. But I would like to draw your attention to some positive issues related to the rapid expulsion of presidents or wojnies after a ten-year term. Then they will still be at that time when they are quite popular, and will be a gratifying bite for individual political parties. So there will be people who are still popular, who have a great knowledge of how this Poland operates on a lower level, how it is run over by our legislation, etc., and they will go to the Sejm. I think this is an important, important issue. What's the target? The goal is not the happiness of this president, who after 10 years will have to redefine himself, but the well-being of the locals. The fact that we find exceptions, super presidents who, in the long run, for 20 or 30 years, can rule the commune and are still supercreative and tireless of their work, is probably true, but we're talking about some statistics here. My experience is that at least twice I have observed quite close to people who have performed the highest functions in the local government, and I have the impression that from the third term of office there is an equal slope. The mechanisms are simple, you could probably describe it, but that's... and that's the second element, which is electoral verification. Of course she is, only that in Poland there is the highest percentage of such situations, that if the President-in-Office or the Mayor-in-Office is running for the second time, she wins. Of course, it could be said that it was prolonged with regard to European money, that the mayor or the mayor could warm up in this heat... [[Time.]] Yeah, I know. I'm asking for a sentence like the two times you've had Senator Augustine. But this... I'm gonna be done right now. It seems to me that an important element is to decide on two-channel. That's statistically not... Longer office in the same place is dangerous for many reasons. What is the difference between senators, Members and Mayor, President or Mayor or President of the Republic of Poland? Well, the directness of the election for an executive function, not a legislative one. It's important. [[Mr. Senator...]] One last thought. You don't create a manor in front of the senator, well, maybe with exceptions. And with every governor-in-Office, President, after a long time of office, the court is formed. And that's what this bill's about to counter. This is precisely its very strong point, supplemented by an amendment concerning the extension of the term of office by one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go, Mr. Senator. [[Five minutes.]] Five minutes, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My phone went off, and I wanted to start with this... But I'm gonna say a few words about the second thread. It's a shame Senator Oremski's leaving because... here's what I'm gonna say. As for many, I also agree with Senator Oremski, who talks about what concerns a certain model of ideal that we should strive for. But the essence of the matter is what we question, ladies and gentlemen, in our speeches. I'll start with working mode. After all, what Senator Oremski and many of the people who appeared before were, among others, concerned. the mode of creation of such laws. After all, we can agree that what happened in 2014 is burdened with some unreliability. But... [[Oh, come on.]] Mr. Senator, let's just leave it at that. One will think yes, the other will. ...if the derivative of this is to be this bill, which comes suddenly, unexpectedly and yet with such elements, that we move towards the administration of elections by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and have confidence in the Minister, then... I will remind you that Poles build their trust on the basis of events. And since the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is to be responsible, as in France, for all elections, the person representing this office must also be trusted. And yet we remember that Minister Błaszczak already in two hours or two days after the accident appointed who was guilty. Beautiful march of November 11th, where there were absolutely no racist slogans... Well, Poles do not trust the central authority. And you, like that tyrant doctor at Plato's, want to force us to do something that we completely disagree with. And then there's this whole system of work. After all, in the case of this type of legislation, this open discussion which we are having here today should not take place for two or three days, but, I don't know, a year, two or three, everyone should be able to speak, have the opportunity to speak and only at the end of the senators. And then the president would have finalised the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also referring to what Senator Swede said at the beginning, namely matters concerning the chairman of the review committee and all those issues that concern the transparency of life in the municipality. And what I'm saying is that I come from a city where most of the elements are actually implemented. And if it has to be implemented in other municipalities, it should be on the basis of conversations. And if by law or act, then also with the participation of these municipalities, representatives of the municipalities, to participate in the creation of this most important document, which also concerns elections. Senator Oremski said that in the area of elections and politics in general, impressions are often more important than facts. And the impression that this law is being created in us, I ask you, as worst as possible... Speed, lack of proper consultation and, most importantly, negative assessments of many people, starting with Judge Hermelinski, and ending with representatives of the county from my territory, namely the district of Sztum, who sent me a draft resolution, where they very negatively refer to this law... It is not only that no one has asked them in any system, but they cannot make any comments yet. And it's so impressive... After all, many elections have been held in Poland in recent months or years. And I'm sorry to tell the ruling coalition that, well, you didn't exactly succeed in this election. Because in Podkarpacie, an independent candidate wins, or in Podlasie, a candidate supported by the highest representatives of power gets 3.5%. , compared to 60% of the independent candidate, so... How can citizens be so wrong? After all, such a good power that brings Poland to the top of its fame... Well, we have to help these citizens make the right decision. And that's why we're concerned about the unnecessary politicisation of the electoral process, the counting of votes. Some sleep, others rest... And already the question of these stamps, intersecting lines, notes, etc. raises a special objection. And to conclude, Mrs Marshal, I would like to say this: I would like to wish you all, all senators, employees, but also all Poles and Poles all the best for the coming holidays. I haven't had a chance before, so now I'm making my heartfelt wishes. I believe that Poles at the Christmas table will be one nation, they will reject all kinds of political disputes and this mood will also be in the next year 2019, which I wish you, employees, Poles and... [[Time's up.]] And who? [[Your marshal.]] [[God bless you!]] Oh! Especially your marshal. God bless you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Spider. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have a few brief thoughts, comments that are more related to my experience in local government than to this law. I think that as such I have experience in Japanese because I've been elected as a governor three times, four times as a governor, two times as a councilman and four times as a district councilman, so I survived 13 local elections. I think it's been a while. For over 21 years, I've been a groom and an old man and I have some comments. My comments will also be related to participation in the elections in Moldova and Georgia. From this perspective, I would like to make a few comments. Ladies and gentlemen, we Poles seem to have something in us that the simplest thing is confusing. I have heard such a statement that humanity is very happy that the Lord God was not a Pole, because if so, the 10 commandments of God would not occupy half a page, but a thousand pages, and eventually we would not know what is sin and what is not good and what is evil. I think we have an inclination for something like this. Now I move on to the comments I would like to make. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the cross, what will happen when the lines cut or don't cut, and how these lines will look. There is a very simple solution in Moldova. They made a stamp there in the form of a sign called "x." He's depressed and there's no discussion... [[Why isn't that in the proposals?]] There's no discussion, there's no argument, there's no such thing. [[We're trying to figure it out.]] It's a very simple solution. Another case, election control. I was shocked. There were 7 to 9 members in each election commission, and there were 14, 15, 16. They were representatives of the community who watched everything very closely. When I went to ask how many voters voted, the observer gave me an exact number of every one. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about the disabled here. It was a beautiful solution. I've said this before, I've mentioned it. In addition to the large urns there were small urns, also transparent. There were cameras. I agree, so be it. And from 11:00 p.m. to 1:00 p.m., two people from the committee and two observers... They took a small urn and went with her to the disabled. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 28,000 regional committees and, I don't know, 30,000, 10,000 or even less of those with disabilities. How many would there be for one committee? And how beautiful it would have been if the disabled had come to the elderly committee. It would be beautiful to emphasize and say: your voice is important, we have visited you, they have come to your house, so that you may cast your voice. [[Bravo!]] It's a beautiful solution. I'm already skipping the aspect of the voice itself, because also this... [[It's like he's on the Platform...]] [[Let's not exaggerate anymore.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand... [[It is in Georgia.]] Please? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Here's another line. When the voter entered the premises It was the first, basic case, the PESEL number. There were two gentlemen sitting by the computer who were putting PESEL into the system and checking that this voter voted anywhere else or didn't vote. If he didn't give it up, he went to the vote. And we need to bring a card, come in, and so on. There is a very simple solution on a national scale and full control of whether or not someone voted. Ladies and gentlemen, as a self-government officer, I am neither in favour of one-mandat districts, nor in favour of one-cadence, nor in favour of two-cadence, nor in favour of five-cadence, nor in favour of ten-cadence. I'm in favor of as many terms as society chooses. [[Oh!]] That's what I think. When did the problems in local governments start? I'm gonna say this out loud. When the parties entered the local government. Then the problems started in local governments, then this atmosphere... everything has already begun to be subjected, controlled from the outside, because we know... And that applies to all groups. There's no one to ignore this case or be generous enough to leave it alone. But what is the role of the state in my view? 'Cause it's different in local governments, because they're different... I, too, spoke about local governments, which are the branches of the local republic. Let me not mention here either you or these towns. Beautiful deals are. But what is the role of the state? The state for local governments and voivodships should prepare the Cela+ program. If there's one way or another, the mayor, go ahead. The police, the prosecutor's office, the court and let him go to jail, behind bars, and let a hectare of heaven through prison bars see because that's what he deserves. But it has to be clearly and unambiguously established and dealt with in this way. That's why... That's what I'm saying. I'm a supporter of JOW. I've had contact, too. I had the pleasure of even having him at home, the conference was at my place. With you, Professor Attendance. I'm sure I'm in favour because I was chosen... I'm not afraid of voters. However, what happens in the case of proportional ordination? Take the Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship and the elections to the Sejm. This is a district that has 16 seats, times 2 is 32 people per committee, times the number of committees... It appears that in 2011 there were 260 candidates. In 2015, 325. If it was a sheet, it would have an A0 format 80 cm x 1.20 m. And if it's a book, it's gonna be a big book. Is this an election? Isn't that mocking society? How can anybody... Someone's gonna take the list, they don't know anybody, they've got 320 people. How can we make a wise, sensible and rational choice? How do you consider this an election? [[That's what I'm saying.]] And how, ladies and gentlemen, is that okay with you now? Because it's being brought in here and it's kind of... moving me away from it. The county. I had a six-mandate district in the Susian county. And what does it turn out to be? Before the election, it was decided who was to be the councilman. And it could be done wonderfully, because it consisted of this district of 3 municipalities in the municipality, from which the councilman had already entered the council before the election, had no competitor, in the second municipality, the smaller population, they gave it 3 and in the larger one they gave him 9 competitors. And he passed, with the weakest result in the county, but the councilman stayed. So it's great to arrange, translate, conjure, and manipulate. But, ladies and gentlemen, these voices were irrelevant in which order? In the vote for the voivodships in 2014, 2.12% of the votes were void. That's about 300,000. And there were 2.5 million in the Seyms election, 17,47% of them. Well, there could have been one or the other combinations, because there's a way to do everything, you just have to know him. Right? So it could have been different. But also many citizens came, saw this sheet, because there were so many people in the seymium, and either he threw it in, or he circled it on the front page, there was a PSL on the front page, or... I even remember an example like that. A friend, a friend, came to me and said, "I voted for you because I would like you to be a second governor." And I voted for a friend because I want him to be a councilman. And thank you. The voice doesn't matter. Right? And that was a lot of situations. [[It's a nation.]] [[It's a fact.]] So, as I say, in my opinion, neither the book nor the sheet... This needs to be improved and simplified. I have the satisfaction that when the first alderman election... that in 1990, there were one-mandate districts... And as for the last election, there were also... [[Mr. Senator, as a practice, you listen very well, but it's been 10 minutes.]] Will I be able to speak for another five minutes? [[Yes.]] I'll sign up. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u55	Senator Slugocki again, right? [[Yes, Mrs. Marshal, I'm almost done.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u56	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator Andrzej Spider, for this speech. With a lot of issues that you've been kind to raise, I identify myself. I would also like to address the issue of two-cadence. I would like to stress that these changes in the positions of the mayors, mayors and presidents, however, are not an episode, they are quite a common phenomenon. And I would not take away from Poles the ability to verify in a very competent, skillful and selection manner, bet on good wojews, mayors and presidents, on good wranglings, and give up those, thanking those who are burned out or making other mistakes. This is not enough, I would like to stress that the Constitution's provisions are specified by the Act of 15 September 2000 but also by its 2013 amendment. I am thinking here of the institution of the local referendum. I would like to remind you that in many units of local government, whether they were small rural communities or cities where presidents rule, referendums were held, effective referendums, as a result of which the authorities, mayors or presidents of these cities were called off, were also cancelled by the resolution bodies, i.e. the councils of these municipalities. There were also situations where at the same time the council of the municipality and its hydrator were cancelled. All this shows that Polish society is a mature and conscious society. We are aware of the instruments of democracy, and quite courageously, more and more courageously, if there are indications, Poles, local communities can initiate, establish a referendum committee and cancel or the mayor, mayor, president or council of these communes. The legislator predicted such a mechanism. It's important. I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the electoral law that wants to consummate too many functions in these regulations and to solve too many problems, which makes there are many rules that are controversial, mutually exclusive, insensitive, unclear. I think there are other regulations that could be looked at and rationalised the functioning of local government in Poland. Because in my opinion it is not a problem of the multi-channelity of Polish wojets, mayors, presidents, rather I would look for the possibility of building a balance between the powers of the councils, i.e. the resolution body, and enforcement, i.e. the gate, the mayor, the president. Of course, the development of local government in Poland has evolved over time, but I think something like that has happened that the relationship between the mayor, the mayor, the president and the council of the commune has now been affected. There is a kind of asymmetry, unfortunately, to the detriment of the resolution body. And I'd rather be looking for more social control here, too, through councillors, rather than restricting the cadency of the wojettes, mayors and presidents. I wouldn't take active Poles from this activity either. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the Senators of the Law and Justice will be persuaded to some extent and will see that these regulations are not an antidote, as some of you suggested, to an unreliable election. We heard perfectly well yesterday's argument, Mr President of the State Election Commission. Me, too, in this context. I was asking questions. We have to remember there was a draw. Each of the election committees could draw one and be in this book first. The only question is: would he then contest the outcome of the election? Well, it's not hard to predict the answer. I only hope, Ladies and gentlemen, that this law will not spoil the Polish local government, because here most of us agreed that it is the greatest success of the Polish state after 1989, the great success of the Polish transformation of the system. I wish all of us that the local government should perform its functions perfectly, as so far, implement the principle of subsidiarity, allow for good management of the Polish state. Taking the opportunity, in the context of the coming Christmas, to all our compatriots, of course, also to you in the hall, I wish you a healthy, serene Christmas. But I would particularly like to address these wishes to Polish self-governments. I'm holding your fingers crossed. I hope there will be a lot of enthusiasm in you, passion, so that you will continue with great determination to carry out your mission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u57	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, you're welcome. Mr. Senator has his first speech, right? [[Yeah, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this law we have actually 3 groups of regulations. The first are those which increase the participation of citizens in self-government, in general, but also increase the position and powers of clubs or councillors who admit to being in opposition to the ruling coalition or against the mayor. Most countries did not contest these rules. They will certainly help to heal the situation in local governments. But there's still a need for system rules to do that, so I'd put it that way. In this first group there are probably 14 different new institutions, and there are 7 system rules. What are they supposed to prevent, and what exactly are they supposed to counteract? Because prevention can be too much to expect... The aim is to prevent the leadership of the executive body in the municipalities, i.e. the council, the mayor or the president of the city, the council, the council of the municipality or the city council. This advantage comes from a simple reason. Well, like the council, the uncle is directly chosen by the general population. When this solution was put in place, everyone was in favour, but, as it turns out, it carries with it such a danger that the uncle, if he concentrates Maybe I'll put myself in danger here, but I'll say it. At the redemption and scaring of his councillors, although in the early days he may be against himself, that is, not actually against himself, but against his methods of governing... Suppose, at the beginning of the discharge, the result is close to half. However, at the end of the term of office, the successful uncle has the result that only one or two persons will dare vote against discharge, i.e. against the governor. Well, it's coming from somewhere. You can check it out, ladies and gentlemen. It's coming from something. And this is due to the strong position of the uncle and from this It's been said before. He's got the biggest place in his hand, the biggest money in his pocket, he's the biggest employer. And still jobs, stable jobs... And that's what they are in the administration, in education, in general, the jobs that come from the budgetary sphere are stable, they're desirable, and if they're desirable, they become some sort of tender element. That's what I'd call it. And now I'm just gonna express my personal opinion. I believe that the limitation to the 2nd term of office to perform executive functions is not a remedy for everything and will not have the effect that we would expect. Apart from there, as I say, unfortunately, a 5-year period has been written in the bill for those who are to leave, and 5 years times 2 is 10 years. Well, we want them to go faster, and we're giving them two more years to rule. Well, maybe that's how it has to be. In my opinion, the remedy for this advantage of the executive authority over the resolution authority is simply a return to the old rule which was applied at the very beginning, namely to the indirect choice of the mayor, mayor or president. It is the council of the municipality or city council that should choose an executive body. It doesn't have to be like it was before, collegial, it doesn't have to be the board. This body may be single, but it should depend on the municipality council. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you an example that should show you that we have taken the wrong path in a way. Please note how this is resolved in the case of the whole country. We choose Parliament, and Parliament chooses government. We do not have direct elections to Parliament and at the same time we do not have direct elections to the Prime Minister. Or the whole government. Why is that? Because the government is going to do what Parliament is going to do in the form of a passed law, e.g. when it comes to budget implementation. Well, if we had elected the Prime Minister and the Sejm and the Senate at the same time in the general election, each of you would have said something was wrong. Well, that's not logical. Then why should it be organized in this way in the commune? Is that logical in there? Of course, someone's gonna say we're gonna elect the president directly. But the president is different. There's no president's analogue at community level. The president performs completely different functions in our legal system, plays a balancing role, intervenes when there is a crisis. In a situation of normal governance, the executive authority is the prime minister with the government, which he is proposing. And so it should be in the commune. The municipality is such a small country, operating in a restricted area, of course. And that's the first line. The second issue is related to the rules, I would call it, increasing the transparency and transparency of the electoral process. That's what's causing so much controversy in the state. I do not know why you judge against the honor and faith of the authors of the bill, although these famous elections of 2014, elections to local governments, were, I remind you, still during your term of office. It was possible to lean on what were the causes of such a outcome, not another outcome, to check whether this result was correct and to try to heal the ordination or the electoral code. Everything was fine then, and now it's an ay-yay. Why are we trying to do this? Because you didn't. It's simple. Somebody has to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one more point, one more point. During these elections Law and Justice will be in a rather uncomfortable situation, because on the one hand it will be partly responsible for their organisation, and on the other hand it will participate in them. We'll be particularly vulnerable to attacks. After all, they have already happened on this platform. That we are doing this ordination, in quotes, underneath each other. Ladies and gentlemen, of all those records that may have suggested that this is a code made under the Law and Justice, we have withdrawn. There was something different about the original project, something different about it, and you're still saying the same thing. I suspect that if we were to return to this project that was reported, if there were no changes in it, you would continue to attack and ask why we are returning to the project that was submitted earlier. Because it makes sense to attack politically, not to think about what we're really doing. And in order to change the electoral code well, we need to think about what really caused this breakdown when it comes to the 2014 local elections. There were two reasons, actually. One was an IT system made on the knee, ordered too late. The NIK has made it clear enough about this system and how it is ordered and tested, or actually not tested. The persons responsible, but not the PKW at the time, but the CWB at the time, should be responsible. Not just one of them, and not criminally, should answer, but all of them, just on business. Unfortunately, it wasn't. One of those people. I'm gonna keep my name quiet. At the time, she was the director of the Legal Team and the Organization of Elections, and then promoted, just as you will write an illustration, one of the generals of the BOR. For the fact that these elections were obviously screwed up, it's just that this person has been promoted. And not much of it: it's supposed to be necessary. It is still necessary in the CWB. Ladies and gentlemen, if such persons are necessary, fear to think of others. That's what needs to be changed. You can't do that. Simply with such a human apparatus, with such in quotes There's no way to work. They're responsible for us waiting for election results for a week. And that poor PKW, that PKW that wasn't responsible for it. What else was there to talk about? ! including us, with the citizens, waited a week and was unable to do anything because earlier someone had made mistakes. It's just what happened. And in the end, At least that's it. She was honorably resigned, practically entirely. And as for what the PKW is responsible for... That's the other element. Why did these choices look like this and not like this? These are the ones that are sometimes referred to as miracles over the urn. Was there a forgery? They were. The question is, was it so common... [[Yes.]] [[It was, it was.]] ...that it could have changed the outcome of the election so much, led to so many void votes, and at the same time to such a surplus in the case of the result of the PSL compared to other results and results of other election committees. I'm having second thoughts here. I don't think it was a forgery, but, as I say, pure just... no imagination. That's a very nice word: screwing up the job, which money was taken for, and to which the people sent. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you can... there are studies, even with maps. You can tell by the way you're... [[Mr. Senator, time...]] I'm almost done. [[Okay.]] As you can see these maps in colors, you can see that in fact the reason for these strange results, i.e. this advantage of the one, the list number 1 from the first page and the large number of votes void, was simply the voting book. Why is that? This, Mrs. Marshal, next episode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u59	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost. Five minutes. [[No, it's the first time.]] Oh, first time. Ten minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I must admit that some of the things I wanted to talk about were said here by my previous speaker, Senator Czerwiński, and very carefully pointing some points. Because I'd like to start by saying why we're even looking at changing the electoral order, the electoral code. Well, if all this was working perfectly, we probably wouldn't be dealing with it. Senator Czerwiński presented precisely what did not play in 2014. It did not play to such an extent that the State Election Commission had to resign. Senator Czerwiński says honorably. Okay, well, let's assume that's honorable. I think it was just such a embarrassment that it couldn't be powdered and couldn't be justified in any way. In the 21st century, we wait a week for election results. Anyway, to this day, if you're looking for the results of the election on the State Election Commission website, you'll find the results before how many terms there are, but the results of the recent elections, in detail, about the circuits... There are very simplified results there. So it's already been shuffled, it's been said that it can't be done, it can't be implemented even after three years of election results. And it was like that's what caused the changes in that first module. Because the changes we are proposing relate to three issues: the issue of organising elections, Commissioners, the departure from this judicial system... This is what Mr Schreiber said at the committee meeting that this is not a universal model. It's rather an uncommon model, a unique model, that only judges manage elections. And this is the first element of these changes that we want to make, very difficult changes. And I only agree on one thing: maybe it's our little mistake that we're making these changes so late. Because that time, the deadline for making changes is not too long, and the work at the National Election Office... The newly appointed Commissioners and the State Election Commission will have a great deal of work to carry out these elections efficiently. And there is also what Senator Czerwiński was talking about, which means that some personal changes will also have to be implemented in order for the elections to be carried out smoothly, ladies and gentlemen. That's the first line. The second point and the second very important reason for changing the electoral ordination are all these cases, all those records that were slightly lost here, although some Senators of the Law and Justice raised them, among others. Olek Swede. This is about strengthening the position of the councillor, strengthening the position of the opposition. I myself have been a councilman for many years, and I know what a gigantic power the governor, the mayor, the president has. It's the slogan that the helpless helpless didn't come out of nowhere. Unfortunately, it comes from the total marginalisation of the council, especially at the level of the communes where the mayor, the mayor, the president rules so that he does de facto what he wants. And solutions such as introducing mandatory session recording and sharing these sessions online... Well, it would seem that this is a small matter, in large cities it is already a standard, but in small municipalities it is not a common phenomenon. Today, we are introducing an obligation so that every resident can see how the councilman voted. There is also a discussion once a year about the development of the commune, a discussion concluded with a vote. I have fought with the president many times myself, and I know how the councilmen who said, "No, discharge, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They were told: you can't judge us at all, because here only these posts matter, I have a positive opinion of the regional clearing house, so you have to give me this discharge. And I'm guessing from the accounting point of view, everything's right there. Especially since, I suspect, after the holidays in all municipalities and districts throughout Poland, there will still be sessions that straighten out these budget posts. But there's a question about investment, there's a question about the quality of investments made. The question is whether the investment fits into the budget and then, on December 27th or 28th, the investment is drawn from it. Sometimes it is that people are even glad that there will be a way, and then, in December, it turns out that this way will not be, because the funds have not been obtained. And as long as they didn't get that money because it didn't work out, it's okay, so... Because it's sometimes like that, but you know in advance that it's just gonna be a fictional record to make somebody's eyes a little pale. And all this in the framework of this annual discussion that we are introducing will be possible to raise. And in many other things... [[What did you guys bring in?]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, the obligation of civil budgets with a certain amount guaranteed. After all, it is the Civic Platform that says: civic budgets, citizenship, involvement of people, inhabitants. And that's what we're introducing, we're introducing it on a large scale, with obligation. Yes, Mr. Senator, with obligation. and with a guarantee of a certain level of those budgets. In my town, the civic budget is decreasing every year. You can check it out, it's not classified information... And your colleague, former Member of the Civic Platform, is in charge there, by the way. And this is... [[Well, that clears it up.]] And it's like the second module or the second reason, and so, the second element of the changes in this whole act, because, as I said, she changes not only strictly the electoral code. And the third element, which is also important, namely the element of honesty of elections. Of course, it's about to be said, and do you have evidence that someone's cheating, that someone's screwing around? But, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in which we have so many millions of void voices is not normal. If the State Election Commission and if you, the Senators of the opposition, think that a few million invalid votes are normal, then I say we disagree. Because what does that mean? That people don't know how to put a cross? Do you think there's a system... [[People aren't interested in the election.]] If they weren't interested, Mr. Senator, they wouldn't have gone to this election. It's, I don't know, 50-60%. for these votes. Those who are not interested in elections are not going to vote, but those who are going, Mr. Senator, are making this effort... Such a scale of invalid voices is a problem. And you can't say that millions of people are uneducated enough that they can't put up a cross. Somewhere there's a system error, which caused that there was this scale of invalid voices, this gigantic scale of invalid votes, this gigantic scale of winning, this result of one game that today can't exceed the 5% threshold. And then all of a sudden, he gets... [[You know, it's...]] ...close to 20%... In a situation where I have been a member of the regional electoral commission many times, we share, some are in the afternoon, others are in the regional committees until noon. We introduce standards for recording elections, which are even in the East, ladies and gentlemen. I talked to a friend recently about security in Ukraine. It turned out that we are simply far behind when it comes to these solutions that operate in many countries in the East. We're talking about an e-social, and we're not able to make an efficient election. The fact that everyone has the opportunity to see... [[Let's not go to Ukraine, Senator.]] ...how these votes are counted, how these elections are held... All these changes we propose are designed to improve this electoral system. Surely none of the Law and Justice have such plans or intentions to forge anything here, to cheat, because never our formation Neither, I hope, nor any other. She did not mean such a thing, but it is necessary to improve the electoral system. I only have one fear I've already mentioned: it's a pity that we were so late to fix this system. I hope that we can achieve this efficiently and make these choices the most difficult, perhaps not the most important from the point of view of the state, but certainly the most complicated, and win whoever will have the greatest support. If we do... we're gonna convince people the most, we're probably gonna win, if you guys convince people, you're gonna win. Probably in many cities, in many municipalities, there will also be electoral committees in many counties... [[Time.]] ...not involved in any political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u61	Thank you very much. Senator Krystian Probier. There you go. First time? [[One.]] It's your first time, Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! At the beginning of the declaration: not only will I not exceed the time limit for my speech, I will not even use it, as if giving back what I once used thanks to some permission. Well, first of all, I would like to say that I will support all the changes that have been proposed in this new ordination. I listened to the discussion either personally, or through Internet previews, and I would like to say that almost all aspects related to the election and the ordination have been presented. I particularly agree with Professor Bobka's statement that the electoral process itself is only a means, a way to an end. As far as the solutions proposed here are concerned, they have been criticised, also on our part, and some of them should be accepted. I have no doubt about some of the solutions. I was dean or dean of the university for the 5th term, and there is no issue of my cadence: 2 terms and goodbyes or a higher position, which also happens, the dean could run for example. To the position of the rector. But during these discussions about changing ordination, I also met with the voices of those who work in the local government. They were surprised by the change, but they said they'd agree, only they'd want to know sooner. Otherwise, the path of life is planned by those who have already had two terms. In my speeches, I try to separate facts from interpretation. The interpretations of these unreliable 2014 elections have been extensively presented here. I'd like to get back to a fact. As I noted here... I use these electronic devices, just like one of my colleagues. I would like to remind you or present to you the fact that took place in 2014 and concerned elections to the Slaskie Voivodship Seymour. Well, it was 15.2% of the votes that didn't matter. That was 240,000 votes. In the following year, 2015, probably in February, a newspaper I will not mention the name of the court in Katowice that the appeal against the result of elections, in which, I say, 130 thousand votes appeared literally out of nowhere. She challenged the election results of a member of the Voivodeship Election Commission, but all the contested... it was repealed by the court. So I am not surprised that this direction of change has been proposed. Those results that occurred at the time were very appalled by all those who participated. But also those who didn't take part. In the Silesian elections. 130,000 votes no one knows where and basically an attempted forgery charge... It's all been decommissioned. This court or some of the members of this court, this ruling committee, were also on the electoral committee. I think that was an argument... That's something that needs to be changed. Therefore, despite some reservations about the proposed amendments, I will fully support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u63	Thank you, Senator. Senator Andrzej Spider, five minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u64	Dear Marshal! High Senate! As for the positives that are in this bill, they were exchanged by Senator Gawel, Senator Oremski. I agree with them as much as possible and support the solution for strengthening the municipality council or the county council. When I was a mayor in 1993, in my first term, I introduced something like the Sołecki Fund. It wasn't called the Social Fund at the time, but the idea was that we used to allocate money to this community in proportion to the number of inhabitants. The Treasurer was watching it, and they seemed to be on the council. So there was no fund as such. ..he was later introduced.. But it could have been done. Another thing that's being introduced now... It's about the guest speeches. It was an iron rule in my district already in 2003, and then it wasn't in the bill either. Citizens' representatives, the public, could come and calmly speak at an interesting point in their speech. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to say that as far as local governments are concerned, they have certainly done a gigantic job. How self-government is perceived depends on the entire army of people The mayors, the councillors. To me, self-government is a school of life. It turned out in my case that after 24 years... My son's become a doorman. What did I tell him at the beginning when he was in office? I told him, "Dear child, you're on the front line." 'Cause it's a front line. And here learn respect for people, respect for bread, to the country, here understand what is the identity of Poland, here respect everyone, here stop everyone, listen to him, because this is the basic thing that man wants, and here learn, as I said, life, respect for God, to the country, to the church, to faith, to bread, to the earth, to people, here is the school of life; and eventually after this teaching, please go on promotion if voters choose you. And are we? In many cases, we don't do the opposite? We're putting a young man up high, even with the vice minister's big briefcase, and he hasn't experienced his life. And then what happens? Isn't that the opposite? Is this the way it's supposed to be? I think I personally did the right thing by advising him. When the government is verified, when the power is verified, I am not afraid of the European Union. Let them scream whatever they want, I'm not interested in any other institutions there. I am particularly interested in what the nation will say and how it will choose, because he is the subject here. And such a remark, which Jan Nowak-Jeziorański said in 2003: "No country can sustain itself if most citizens see its enemy in it. Sources of this deadly disease, which is the excess of stubbornness (the excess of partying is nothing but the most dangerous form of corruption), should be sought in the current electoral ordination. Surely partying is a threat, because the Polish people, Poles, Polish voters want a strong, strong Polish country. And if he doesn't, if the authority doesn't do it. I think it's okay. I They will always find enough strength to throw such power out of the way. Let me quote Mickiewicz: Our nation is like lava. From the top cold and hard, dry and filthy, but the inner fire will not cold for a hundred years; let's splash on this shell and descend to the depths. If this power creates this shell as an enemy nation, he will find enough strength to throw it out. He showed it in the latest history: when the PZPR-owska power was there, he threw it away; when it was AWS-owska, he pushed it away; when it was SLD-owska, he pushed it away. Recently, too, let's say, it didn't go well for our esteemed opposition and they also rejected them in 2015. And if it's not his will, because he's the subject of history here, he's gonna do it with every next one. Only with this society, this nation must be reckoned with, respected and served. And that is the task and the self-government, and those that you create. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u65	Mr. Senator... Professor Żaryn, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During this debate, I received various phone calls, e-mails, whole sets of different proposals for changes or points for discussions from local authorities. I would like to give this second part of the speech due to me, i.e. the additional five minutes, to thank all those who have come to me and those who have helped me, that is, the local government. And it is not only local authorities belonging to the Law and Justice, but also those belonging to local communities, which in fact form self-government Poland in many places in Poland, including in my constituency, where I have contact with many local authorities who do not belong to a particular political party. And I want to say What did Senator Spider say just now? That really this great school of patriotism and responsibility for the local community entrusted to either the rulers or the councillors, this is the space in which the great school of life and responsibility takes place, this is the area of local government. But you also have to say And we're not gonna secure that with any statutory paragraphs. At the same time I meet with the words of appreciation for Polish self-governments and, unfortunately, I fear, I will meet with such voices as are appalling. In one of the sub-Warsaw municipalities during one of the meetings, I asked how it is possible that in the same municipality in the local elections it was evident that the party of PSL was won in a specific way, which from the statistics point of view was impossible, but it won And in the presidential election you won President Andrzej Duda. And I'm asking my interlocutors how it is possible for such dynamic preferential changes to take place within a year. And they're good for me, and they're so bold: well, Mr. Senator, presidential elections, parliamentary elections are worldview elections, and local government elections are professional elections. This means that there is also a tendency among self-governments, this bad trend, which is to occupy and own a certain space, jobs that actually influence the results of the local elections. If e.g. in a given place, in a given municipality, a high-standard shop will be opened, de facto simultaneously destroying a small chain of shops, and the local government is in fact the one responsible for the sustainability of this large-scale shop and jobs, which unfortunately becomes a tool that actually affects the political and local elections made in a given place. [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] I'm almost done. In this discussion, I would very much like to introduce this thread. On the one hand, we have prominent self-governments, not necessarily from one particular party. And on the other hand, we have municipal colonialism, which we also have to fight. I am very worried that all of our amendments, introduced here for good intentions, will protect us from this nightmare, which is also present in local life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u67	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll get back to the last thought. Well, one of the mistakes that was noticeable, or actually one of the reasons for those mistakes made in the 2014 elections, those that so upset us, was the use of the book to vote. Perhaps there could be some way to avoid such a gross deviation between the will of voters and what was actually declared, but unfortunately, then, to this, and not another situation, also the State Election Commission, not as an office of the CWB, but as a State Election Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, for 25 years. Let's consider just this one, let's call it free Poland. We have been pushed into our head that we have to put one cross on the card. And each of us has in our subconscious that it's supposed to be one cross on the card. The voter goes into the cabin and what does he do then? Well, I was confessed by three people in quotes. I took part in these local elections in 2014 as a candidate for the Sejm, and they just, in short, regretted that such a way of voting made mistakes for them. They just wanted to justify themselves to me and tell me what it looked like in their case. I suspect that in many other cases it was the same. A man walks into a cabin and gets something like this. For the PKW and this and this, and this is the voting card. I agree with that, but for an average man, it's a card, it's a card, but it's not a card, really. It may be called a brochure, a notebook, a book, but not a card. The average man as a card treats this part, this object. And then what? Well, he goes into the booth, and if he gets a card in a common sense, he puts up one cross. There's no problem with that, mostly. But if he got the book, then he puts the first cross on the first card, because it's usually done bypass, then he turns the page and suddenly realizes he made a mistake. He didn't want to vote for this group. And what does he do then? Well, there are two attitudes: either he agrees with it and annuls the voice, puts the second cross on any other letter, or in the sense of citizenship, so that this voice is not wasted, he simply throws this book with such a devoted voice into the urn. And that's where the PSL vote allowance came from, which is obvious. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, the PKW didn't figure that out either... Few of this, in all the information, in all the circulars and guidelines, identified... maybe she didn't identify, but at the same time used the concept of a ballot and a card. Like I said, an ordinary mortal, an average citizen, it's collapsing. As long as the ballot was a card, everything was fine. If the ballot card is a brochure, it stops being so obvious. The question is, what do we do then? If these errors continue to be many, perhaps you will just have to call it different, e.g. a form. The form will have a form or postcard or brochures, and then he will not be wrong about the ballot. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we done in this bill? Well, you couldn't give up cards entirely in the form of brochures. Moreover, yesterday, Mr PKW was explaining to us exactly what it looked like. If it were to be cards, these large sheets should be used. Firstly, they would be very difficult to use, and secondly, it would not be possible for example. use these amenities associated with Braille inserts. Incidentally, these facilities concern a very small group of people and, as I said, in my opinion... Because those who were weakly sighted did not use these braille pieces. Once it was embarrassing, and two that they didn't give full information. They only gave information about the number on the list, and they didn't give information about the name, so it was half the information and the visually impaired didn't want to use it. It would have been better, as one of the senators suggested here, just introduce an auxiliary urn in each circuit and with this auxiliary urn, as is in hospitals and DPS, to go to the houses where people with disabilities are. I think that would be a much better solution. First of all, these people would feel appreciated, second of all, to any house that wants us, we could go with this urn. Well, if you can do it in the hospital and in the DPS, why can't you do it in a typical, ordinary circuit? I don't know that. Well, maybe you'll just have to bring it in over time. But let's get back to this brochure. A description will be very important. The fact that the first and second parties will be excluded from the vote is important, but once again I appeal to the PKW in one or another composition to simply lean on the conditions of validity of the vote, i.e. the instructions on the conditions of validity of the voice. She doesn't have to be written in lawyer language. It's not supposed to be an instruction for a fellow PKW who sits next to you, it's supposed to be an instruction for an average citizen. [[Mr. Senator...]] And the average citizen means something like that through a card or a ballot. This brochure can't be called a card, really, because no one's gonna know it. Mrs. Marshal, to conclude, I just want to say one more thing. Namely, we here, which I did not say earlier, are moving from the judicial system to the system, I would call it, official, when it comes to handling elections. The question is, do we have to do this? Well, you could argue before, but now, at every manifestation, at every assembly, I see judges, and it's the prominent judges, from the front pages of the newspapers, who participate in protests, manifest and express their political views against the bill, unfortunately, that these judges become more political than politicians. Well, I think we're gonna have to give them a break, at least for a while. Let the officials handle the election. Maybe it'll be fairer. I'm also adding a few amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u69	Okay, thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. Dismissed until 2:20 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 51 to 14 minutes 22]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u70	I'm extending the recess until 2:40 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 22 to 14 minutes 40]] I'm reopening the session. Senators, please take your seats. We return to agenda item 18: Act amending certain laws in order to increase citizens' participation in the selection, operation and control of certain public bodies. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Knock.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I allow myself to speak very briefly. I would like to draw your attention. only one aspect connected with the procedure of this law. Namely, in my opinion as Senator of Law and Justice, this law is also the result of a great compromise on our part. We initially pushed much stronger political solutions. From some of these solutions we withdrew even before the formal transfer of the project to the Sejm, I am thinking above all about two-cadence. Then, at the procession stage in the Sejm, we also introduced a number of concessions and comments by listening to the opposition and listening to stakeholders, including representatives of the State Election Commission. I would like to remind you that of the 18 comments made by the State Election Commission, almost all were included in the Law at the Seym stage. At the senate stage, we also demonstrated a great compromise, a willingness to dialogue. The issue of maintaining correspondence voting for disabled persons and the relevant amendments in this respect on behalf of the Law and Justice Club was particularly raised here by Mr Martynowski I already reported yesterday. And now, finally, because yesterday we also listened to the speech by Judge Hermelinski, President of the State Election Commission, on behalf of the Senators' Club of Law and Justice signed by Mr Martynowski, which goes against yesterday's remarks by the judge. Firstly, I propose an amendment whereby, in the event of justified objections to candidates for election commissioners, designated under the procedure referred to in paragraph 3, the State Election Commission shall immediately inform the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, who shall indicate the new candidates. Second, after the article. Article 8 is added. 8a as follows: The State Election Commission will adapt the territorial competence of the electoral commissioners referred to in Article. 166 §2 of the Act as amended by Art. 5 taking into account the number of electoral Commissioners referred to in Article. 166 §3 of that Law as amended by this Act, within 14 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. Thirdly, I propose an amendment which states that Article. Point 5, point 70 (a) (b) is replaced by the following: "In the event of justified objections to the candidates referred to in paragraph 2, the State Election Commission shall immediately inform the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, who shall indicate the new candidates in the number of two in the procedure set out in paragraph 2. The Head of the National Election Office shall be appointed for a period of 7 years. Before the expiry of the period referred to in §2b, the Head of the National Election Office may be revoked by the State Election Commission in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the amendments I make at the end. I thank you as Senator rapporteur for the whole discussion, for the whole debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u72	Thank you very much. Senator Wczyl has added to the floor... [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[No.]] No? [[He resigned.]] Oh, he quit. [[For the record...]] Good. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I also inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Libicki, Senator Zdrojewska, Senator Pęk, as we have heard, Senator Florek, Senator Klich, Senator Rulewski, Senator Pociej, Mr Marshal Borusewicz, Senator Napieralski, Senator Czerwiński and Mr Czarnobaj. [[Komarnicki and Dowhan have filed for the protocol...]] Senator Komarnicki and Senator Dowhan made speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does a representative of the State Election Commission want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Senator Secretary, please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u73	Thank you very much. I kindly inform you of the fifty-sixth meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, which will take place immediately after the announcement of the break in room 217. Thank you. [[What about the Legislative Board?]] It's not yet, later. [[Voice from the room: In the next break...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u74	I'm declaring a recess until 3:10 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 47 to 15 minutes 10]] I'm reopening the session. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: cancellation of the Chair of the Committee on Infrastructure, printing No 697 and consideration of this item as item 19 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the appeal of the Chair of the Committee on Infrastructure. I would like to inform you that Senator Stanisław Kogut resigned from his duties as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure. Request for the removal of Senator Stanisław Rogut as Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions... [[No, no.]] ...was positively assessed by the Seniors Convention... [[He's not the chairman of this committee.]] Sorry, there's a script error. It is, of course, the Committee on Infrastructure. The draft resolution prepared by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs is included in print No 697. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a proposal from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the appeal of the Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure. On the basis of the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The committee shall submit the following draft resolution to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the appeal of the Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure. §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismissing Senator Stanisław Rogut from his role as Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee. §2. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u76	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We are voting on the appeal of the Chair of the Infrastructure Committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted in favour, 56 votes in favour, no one voted against, 21 senators abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appeal of the Chair of the Infrastructure Committee. I'm asking Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u77	Thank you very much. The meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on the election of the Chair of the Committee will take place today 10 minutes after the announcement of a break in room 182. Second message. The meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators will take place 40 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u78	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 4:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 14 to 16 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u79	I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please take your seats and stop talking. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the election of the Chair of the Infrastructure Committee Print No 698 and consider this item as item on the 20th agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't hear you objecting. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Sorry, this is out of date. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the election of the Chair of the Committee on Infrastructure. The draft resolution prepared by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs is included in print No 698. I would also like to inform you that the proposal to elect Senator Andrzej Biesiołek as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure has been welcomed by the Seniors' Convention. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please silence the conversation. Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a proposal from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs for the election of the Chair of the Committee on Infrastructure. On the basis of the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The committee shall submit the following draft resolution to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the election of the Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure. §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, elect Senator Andrzej Biesiołek as Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee. §2. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u81	Thank you. I ask Senator Wiesław Dobkowski to speak and present Senator Andrzej Misiołek's candidacy as chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today was the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, at which the committee elected Senator Andrzej Misiołek to chair the Committee on Infrastructure. Mr Andrzej Biesiołek has been Vice-President of the Infrastructure Committee so far. There's a third term in the Senate, we know him. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I ask the High House to support Senator Andrzej Biesiołek's candidacy as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u83	Thank you, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Once again, I ask all senators from all sides to silence the talks. Thank you. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No one's checking in. We are voting on the election of the Chair of the Committee on Infrastructure. I would remind you that voting on personal matters is secret and is done using sealed ballots. We proceed with a secret vote on the election of Senator Andrzej Biesiołek as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure. To hold a secret vote, I appoint the senators of the secretary Arkadiusz Grabowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Jerzy Wcisła. Please take up your duties. In a moment, the senators will hand you the sealed ballots to the senators. I would like to inform you that there is only one sign on the secret ballot. The ballot card, which has more than one mark on it or which has not been placed on it, shall be deemed to be null and void. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. This helps to think about the vote. After completing the ballots of the secret state, the senators, read in alphabetical order, will throw them into the urn. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out secret ballots and your senators to fill out the cards. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] Just a minute. I'm gonna ask them if they're all hit. [[I can see that...]] Have all the senators received secret ballots? I now ask Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski to read the names of the senators in turn. I'm asking your senators to put a secret ballot in the urn after reading the name.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u84	Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Ambrozik, Anna Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Bielan, Grzegorz Bierecki, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Alexander Bobko, Richard Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Borowski... [[Voice from the gym: I didn't get the cards.]] [[You should have been careful.]] What do you mean? ...Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Silence, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Gaweł, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Golba, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Thomas Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u85	Have all the senators voted? [[In a minute.]] [[Yeah, yeah, I'll come over.]] All of them? Yes. Thank you. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering a recess until 4:30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 24 to 16 minutes 30]] I'm reopening the session. We are back to discussing the 20th agenda: the election of the Chair of the Committee on Infrastructure. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the count of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I will read the minutes of the secret vote of 21 December 2017 on the election of Senator Andrzej Biesiołek as Chairman of the Infrastructure Commission. Arkadiusz Grabowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Jerzy Wcisła, appointed by the Senate Marshal to vote secretly on the election of Senator Andrzej Misiołek as chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, stated that 78 votes were cast, including 76 valid votes. 47 senators voted against, 19 senators voted against, 10 senators abstained. The record shows the signatures of the secretaries. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the Chair of the Committee on Infrastructure. I ask President Andrzej Biesiołek to approach the president's table. I'd like to give you a resolution on choice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u86	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Thank you so much for your support. I will do my best to direct the committee well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u87	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I declare adjournment until 6:36 p.m. [[We're still on the news.]] Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u88	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I kindly inform you that the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs and the Legislative Committee will take place immediately after the adjournment in room 217 has been announced. A joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of requests submitted at the 50th Senate meeting to amend certain laws in order to increase citizens' participation in the selection, operation and control of certain public authorities will take place today, 30 minutes after the announcement of a break in room 217. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 37 to 18 minutes 37]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u89	I'm extending the recess until 19.10. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 37 to 19 minutes 11]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u90	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the revised agenda for the work of the Senate was forwarded to you by e-mail in the first half of 2018. I remind you that the next Senate meeting, during which the Senate is planning to consider the 2018 budget law, will take place on 17, 18, 19 January 2018. The agenda for this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. This is not written, but I can tell you that there is a good chance that the deliberations will last longer. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: changes in the membership of the Senate committees Print No 699, and consider this item as item 21 of the first agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 21st agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this issue is included in print No 699. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a proposal to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a proposal from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the membership of Senate committees. On the basis of the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the committee shall present the following draft resolution. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on changes in the composition of Senate committees. §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismissing Senator Robert Dowhan from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. §2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, chooses: 1) Senator Robert Dowhan to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, 2) Senator Mark Rocki to the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. §3. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We return to the second agenda: the Law on the State Protection Service. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 680 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The joint committees request the adoption of the law without amendment. Thank you. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u94	Thank you very much. Does the senator want to speak again? Senator Bogdan Borusewicz submitted his conclusions during the discussion. Mr. Marshal? [[No.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous two proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 22 for, 64 against. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we proceed to vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 85 senators voted... I didn't vote. Oh, my gosh! It's okay. I'm sorry. [[Mr. Marshal, the spokesperson for discipline...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] 85 senators voted, 62 votes against, 22 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the State Protection Service. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of organisational units, auxiliary units of municipalities, buildings, objects and public utility devices and monuments and the Act amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and presented a report. It is in print No 694 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Mr Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u95	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on this law. The High Senate is ready to accept the proposal set out in the first paragraph, that is to say, to adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u96	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj and Senator Piotr Florek submitted their conclusions during the discussion. [[No.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 64 for, 22 against. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Prohibition of Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of organisational units, auxiliary units of municipalities, buildings, objects and public utility devices and monuments and on the Act amending the Act on the Prohibition of Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate printing No 689 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 64 votes against, 1 against, 21 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the excise duty Act. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services... [[Voice from the O.R.: Up to five.]] [[Five o'clock.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did I fuck you? Five o'clock. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of the Senate Print No 690 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of the "Print No 691 A." We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 66 were in favour, 4 against, 16 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: a law amending the Law amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of the "Print No 695 A." We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions and the Legislative Commission have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate Print No 681 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they ask for an amendment to Law 682 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committees. The purpose of the amendment is to clarify the provision by applying the correct wording. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on restructuring and the Law on the Code of Administrative Procedure. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 677 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on National Economy and Innovation requests that the law be adopted together with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u98	Thank you very much. The motion was made during the discussion by Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. Do you wish to speak? [[No.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1, 4 and 5 should be voted on together. They shall include in the law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims a change in the time limit for the establishment of the Central Register of Restructuring and Impairment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 2 edits the rule in accordance with commonly accepted syntax rules, thus eliminating interpretative doubt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 3 eliminates an unnecessary amending provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Restructuring Law and the Law on Administrative Procedure. We are returning to the eleventh item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Roads Act. The National Defence Commission and the Infrastructure Commission have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments in print No 678 A. A minority of committees request that this law be rejected and that the law be amended. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on this amendment will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 21 votes against, 63 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 63 votes against, 21 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Public Road Act. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Environmental Inspection and the Act on Environmental Protection. The Committee on the Environment presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print No 692 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 85 in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Environmental Protection Inspection and the Act on Environmental Protection. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of Print No 693 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We therefore proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 577 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Michał Sewerynski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a draft law amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities and adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Michał Sewerynski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Police and some other laws. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 560 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to present the Senate's position in further work on the project. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. After the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. He obliged these committees to submit an additional report at the current Senate meeting. This report can be found in print No 674 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Legislative Committee and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. The joint committees supported the proposal contained in point II of the table of proposals, i.e. to amend the draft resolution, and ask for its adoption by the Senate together with a uniform draft resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were tabled by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Krzysztof Słoń. [[No.]] No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? I can't see and I can't hear the calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. Following the vote on the proposed amendment, we will proceed with the vote on the draft resolution - print No 674 S - in full with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. We proceed to the vote on the motion to reject the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 20 for, 64 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the draft resolution, we are voting on the amendment tabled. The amendment clarifies the grounds for applying the financial penalty to senators. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome... [[Change your card.]] Well, maybe not yet, because the senators are hesitating, making a decision... [[Keep your heads open.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Not all of us... I'm gonna ask you to give me the results. The votes were 86 senators, 64 votes against, 20 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] We proceed to the vote on the resolution in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 55 votes against, 22 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo for those...]] A few didn't vote. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. We return to agenda item 18: Act amending certain laws in order to increase citizens' participation in the selection, operation and control of certain public bodies. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Legislative Committee, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 696 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees of today's meeting discussed the proposals made during the debate on 20 and 21 December this year and put forward the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to accept the proposals set out in points 11, 18, 20, 31, 32, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 52, 55, 58, 62 and 63 of paragraph II. In addition, the committees inform that Senator Jan Rulewski withdrew his request in point 41 of point II. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u102	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? I will read the names of the senators who can now speak: Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Bogdan Klich, Grzegorz Napieralski, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Florek, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Marek Pęk, Marek Martynowski, Aleksander Potij, Jan Filip Libicki, Marian Poślednik, Wiesław Kilian, Ryszard Bonisławski, Tomasz Grodzki, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Czerwiński, Leszek Czarnobaj. In addition, Senators Piotr Florek, Jan Rulewski, Barbara Zdrojewska, Aleksander Pociej were the rapporteurs of the connected committees. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal Borusewicz...]] You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. And then the senator. [[Senator Klich reporting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am speaking because this law is a fundamental law. It changes the electoral system and, above all, removes judges, independent judges from the State Election Commission. Removes these judges also from the positions of electoral commissioners. Well, the bill was passed... The State Election Commission in its composition and the electoral commissioners, judges were appointed in 1991. Like the National Judicial Council, it was set up in 1991. This system, which was introduced, a system based on independent judges, was introduced after our experience with communism, when elected officials dependent on the political party appointed the then state council. The law in question withdraws this principle. It withdraws the principle that in these electoral instances they functioned, acted, and functioned by independent judges. And it's not. - Yeah. - as you explain, as the majority explains, as the PiS translates, increasing the transparency of elections and increasing the guarantee of independence of elections from political parties. Because if a political party has a decisive influence on the electoral organs, it increases its... these bodies increase their dependence on politicians, not reduce them. It's clear, and I think it's logical. [[According to your logic.]] Among the 9 members of the State Election Commission, who are now judges, there will be only 2 judges and the rest will be representatives of the political parties. The State Election Commission, in addition to the essential objective of dealing with elections, organising elections, overseeing these elections, decides to grant, withdraw and reduce subsidies to political parties for all political parties. What does that mean? That the representatives of political parties will decide on their finances, settle irregularities in their financial statements? This is the way back, the way back from the rules we introduced after the overthrow of communism. The Election Officers' Corps is also established, 5,000 people, new jobs... I have the fear that the electoral officials who functioned until today will be excluded from this corps, for most say that they do not deserve to be trusted. The members of the Regional Election Commissions will also be able to carry out electoral agitation. Outside the electoral commission area, they'll be able to carry out an electoral agitation. So when they get in, they're gonna cross the electoral board, they're gonna be independent, but when they get out, they're gonna stop being independent, and they're not gonna have to be independent. They're allowed to carry out an electoral agitation. And in the end, here's what I'm gonna say. The solutions that have been introduced also allow uncontrolled financing of the electoral campaign. This is a dangerous situation. This is a situation that can lead to an oligarchisation of elections, which can lead to the fact that whoever has money will provide a good campaign to his representative. We're going in a direction that should reflect. This is the wrong direction. That's a bad direction. Following judicial laws that restrict and eliminate the independence of the courts, the Constitutional Court, the National Court of Justice and the Supreme Court, we are to vote on the law preparing the next and next elections. That's why with all my conviction, I'm filing a motion to reject this bill... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...and ask for his support, please reflect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u104	Senator Jan Filip Libicki. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'm on my way.]] I'll allow it. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u105	I would like to appeal to the senators. for you to accept the amendment tabled by me, Amendment 17. This amendment brings back to date the solution for correspondence voting. Of course, you have tabled such an amendment, but in a limited form. It only applies to people with disabilities, not for example. people who are independent or not independent, older people who do not formally have disability decisions, and who have difficulty taking part in elections. This solution helped them to participate in elections and to exercise this civil right. I would like to point out that limiting this form of voting is incompatible with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which clearly speaks of the full participation of persons with disabilities in society, and thus also in the electoral act. And finally, there's one thing I'd like to say. During the work of this law, fortunately not in the Senate, there was an absolutely outrageous and unacceptable situation, i.e. Suggestions have been made that those who use this way of voting, i.e. persons with disabilities, pose some risk, a risk of falsifying elections. I would like to make it perfectly clear that this is an absolutely unacceptable thing, and rather those who have prepared these rules on the basis of the "Little Kazia" principle, as Mr Hermeliński said, who was, moreover, a candidate of the PiS to the Constitutional Tribunal, from which he then moved to the State Election Commission, pose a threat to the proper conduct of the elections and not to the correspondence vote for people with disabilities. Once again, I call for my amendment, Amendment 17. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u106	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Is that how they're gonna talk one at a time?]] [[Voice from the room: Shut up!]] Quiet! Mr. Senator, we're not commenting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This bill can't be improved. It can only be modified, but even after the modifications we expect after today's vote, this law is a danger because it undermines those values to which the Poles have become accustomed since 1990 by voting in local elections. This bill undermines the universality of elections. Not everyone will be able to participate in the elections because you are trying to limit and exclude some of the people who have had the right to exercise their right to vote. I mean, some people with disabilities, I mean older people, I mean people temporarily abroad. Why should they be deprived of their right to vote? Why shouldn't they be able to participate in elections like everyone else? Come on, tell me why. This bill also makes the elections not equal. They would be equal if they kept the apolitical corps of commissioners, if they kept the possibility of judges, apolitical by nature, offices such as the head of the National Election Office. You're trying to change that. You replace apolitical judges with officials who will come from political nominations who will come from a party recommendation. For what is the recommendation of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, if not a party recommendation? So some will have a better chance and some will have a smaller chance. This means, in fact, that the adjective equal to the elections from the time of the adoption of this law cannot be applied in practice. That is why I appeal once again to the state that you want to support this law in order to modify it where it has fewer errors or reject it. We are against this law because it undermines the equality and universality of elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleksander Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u109	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, there were 2 very interesting speeches in this discussion. You gave one to Senator Gawel. What I'm trying to say, Senator, is that this was really one of the most interesting speeches I've ever heard. And it was very substantive. I've also had the pleasure of listening to Senator Bobka and a completely different... kind of look from a completely different angle. Very interesting speech. Dear colleagues, I understand the reservations raised by Senator Gawel regarding these small districts, but unfortunately this bill does not answer your objections at all, Senator. Any idea that would touch the substantive side that you were talking about, I would support. But this bill doesn't talk about it at all, she's kind of right next to it. You said there were real problems, and here, as usual, we're breaking down the door, only to a completely different apartment. And I'd like to... [[And how do we vote here?]] Mr. Senator Dobrzyński, I'll tell you how to vote. [[I'm stuck.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] If you don't know, I'll give you a hint. I have to say that what the President of the State Election Commission said yesterday, Mr Hermelinski, who, in short, and just like that, is not from our fairy tale, but is from your fairy tale... He said how many dangers there are in this bill. I'm very sorry that you didn't listen to him and that he was talking a little bit in the air because his arguments really were very serious. Very serious and very substantive. I'm very sorry you don't want to hear them out. I have no greater hope that my speech, no matter how flaming it would be, will change your attitude towards this law. But I'm asking you to do one thing. You had an official here... a representative of the State Archives, again your... [[Voice from the room: This is your...]] And he told you, a little like the Minister of Justice on the occasion of the Supreme Court Act, that it cannot be defended that the influx of documents from one election, which he is going to archive, corresponds to archives collected since the 11th century. And he said how many kilometers it is. Think of the matter at least in this regard: you want to archive ballots that really serve nothing, you want to spend another million zlotys on something that after 30 days, after the Supreme Court's decision, will no longer have any political significance. Because after 30 days, the decision of the court, the election will be considered valid or invalid. So you're creating some kind of illusion for a huge amount of money. Well, at least in this respect. support the amendment that I am making on behalf of your official again. Why throw money away senseless? In this respect, I would very much ask you to support my amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Number?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u110	Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a long discussion here, involving everyone on the new definition of the letter "x" which introduces that "x" consists of at least two lines, which means that there may be more of them. This ordination also allows you to make various notes on the card, the subtitles "This voice" is important. I took the liberty of seeing how this would work in the Supreme Parliamentary Chamber. I admit that during the last vote I used to vote... I did more than two lines and made a note. High committee counting votes on PiS leadership... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...disqualified that voice, and found it invalid. So I can say what is not an abuse: the election of a party. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u112	Anyone else? Anyone else want to speak? No. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that Senator Jan Rulewski has withdrawn his application, point II, point 41 in print No 696 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 22 were in favour, 61 against. [[Voting No 30]] [[That's not gonna happen.]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, amendments 1, 5 and 7 must be voted jointly. They introduce any decision of municipalities, powiats and local governments on participating budgets. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 59 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 2 makes the participatory budget an instrument that municipalities can and do not have to apply. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 20 were in favour, 60 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 3 extends the scope of management functions in municipal legal entities... [[No, no, no, no, ……]] ...to concubines of people with key functions in the municipality. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 84 were in favour, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 33]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 4, 6 and 8 should be voted on together. They extend the time limit for consideration by the authorities constituting local government units of the citizens' initiative. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 61 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 9 deletes the definition of "x'. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 24 against, 61 against. [[Voting No 35]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 10 amends the definition of the "x" mark. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 59 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 10 was rejected. Amendment 11 extends the deadline for storing election records to 5 years. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 64 were in favour, 22 against. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 12... No, now Amendment 13. Yes? [[Voice from the room: No 14.]] No. 14 already? Good. Amendments 14 and 57 should be voted on together. They restore the municipalities' councils' competence to designate electoral districts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 22 were in favour, 63 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 38]] The amendments were rejected. Amendment 15 seeks to make the creation of voting circuits mandatory in the places of residence of at least 15 voters, such as medical establishments, criminal establishments or social assistance homes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 22 were in favour, 63 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 39]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 16 clarifies the rules for publishing the provisions of the electoral commissioner. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 62 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 17 restores correspondence voting. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 56 against. [[Voting No 41]] [[Shame!]] Amendment 17 was rejected. Amendments 18 and 58 restore correspondence voting for people with disabilities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 85 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 42]] Amendments 18 and 58 were accepted. [[Very good.]] Amendment 19 amends the law on the modification of electoral districts due to changes in the boundaries of the municipality. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 61 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 43]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 20 improves the references. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 44]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 23 sets out the time for starting voting in health care facilities and social assistance homes and improves the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 24 against, 62 against. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 24 aims to introduce an obligation to issue a voting card with an envelope. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 22 against, 63 against. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 24 was rejected. Amendment 26 deletes the amendment of the provision setting out the conditions for valid voting. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 22 were in favour, 63 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 27 aims to clarify the circumstances taken into account in determining the validity of the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 24 against, 61 against. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 27 was rejected. Amendment 28 aims to maintain the prohibition on the making available of material containing the registered activities of the electoral commission prior to the start of the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 20 were in favour, 64 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 29 seeks to prohibit the electorate from recording and publishing by means of technical equipment a completed ballot. The infringement of that prohibition shall be subject to judgment in criminal proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 61 against. [[Voting No 50]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 30 repeals the obligation to appoint a member of the electoral committee responsible for protecting the ballot box. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 21 for, 63 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 51]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 31 improves the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 32 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 33 stresses the need for all committee members to be present when determining the outcome of the vote in the circuit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 25 votes against, 59 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 34 eliminates the obligation to recount unused ballots. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 55]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 35 aims to clarify the provision concerning men of confidence and social observers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted against, 22 against, 62 against. [[Voting No 56]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 36 eliminates the provision ordering the marking of immovable property. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 22 votes against, 63 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 37 defines the concept of private property. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 58]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 38 eliminates the introduction in the Act of extending the scope of exceptions to the prohibition on the acceptance of a property benefit by election committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 23 for, 63 against. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 39 aims to prohibit political party membership and participation in electoral committees for the members of the electoral commission. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 23 votes against, 61 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 40 removes amendments to provisions that do not change the wording of those provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 22 votes against, 63 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 61]] Amendment 41 is withdrawn. Amendments 42 and 54 should be voted together. So we're going to vote on Amendments 42 and 54. They restore the judges' composition of the PKW and the corps of the electoral commissioners. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 22 for, 60 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 62]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 43 restores the judges' composition of the PKW. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 22 votes against, 61 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 44 introduces a procedure where the mode specified in the Act does not lead to the composition of the PKW. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 5 against, 57 against, 23 abstentions. [[Voting No 64]] Now Amendment 45. Amendments 45 and 63 introduce a deadline for completing vacancies in the PKW. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 64 votes against and 21 abstentions. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 46 changes the competence of the electoral commissioners. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 47 introduces an additional requirement for candidates for electoral commissioners. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 67]] Amendments 48 and 50 increase the role of the PKW in the appointment of electoral commissioners and the head of the National Election Office. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 49 removes the wrong reference. We're voting. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 52 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 53 seeks to maintain the criminalisation of electoral agitation without the consent of the representative of the electoral committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 62 against. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 55 introduces a deadline for the PKW to adapt the area of action of the electoral commissioners to the new regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 56 deletes the provision that eliminates the employment relationship of the former head of the National Election Office. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 21 were in favour, 63 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 73]] Amendment 53 harmonises the date of entry into force... [[Voice from the room: Amendment 59.]] I'm looking good, I'm reading bad. Amendment 59 harmonises the date of entry into force of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 22 were in favour, 62 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 74]] Amendment 60 partially harmonises the date of entry into force of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 62 against. [[Voting No 75]] Amendment 61 partially harmonises the date of entry into force of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 58 against. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 62 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 83 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 77]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 60 were in favour, 21 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 78]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of the Act on... [[Senators of the Civic Platform Club chant: Free courts! Wol-ne wybory! Wol-na Poland!]] You're welcome... Ladies and gentlemen, the demonstration room is out of the courtroom. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 50th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Arthur Warzocha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Commonly available data indicate that during World War II Poland lost over half a million works of art that were stolen by the officers of the Third German Reich from occupied areas. The stolen works of art, a large part of which are paintings, among them world-class masterpieces, have disappeared irreversibly, and their fate until today, more than 70 years after the end of the occupation and war activities, is unknown. The authors of these works are leading artists, both Polish and worldly, such as Stanisław Wyspiański, Jan Matejko, Jacek Malczewski, Wojciech Kossak, Rafael Santi, Anton van Dyck, Pieter Bruegel and others. The current market price of these works is almost impossible to estimate, but it can certainly be concluded that the plundered artifacts had enormous material value, not to mention their artistic, historical and fundamental value for the Polish nation, on which identity and state-created bonds were built. The balance of actions of the Polish state throughout the post-war period aimed at recovering stolen works is not optimistic. Poland, which in terms of material war losses was the largest victim among the countries occupied by the Third Reich, and this also concerns losses in this area, at the time of the Polish People's Republic, practically did not come forward with a firm and effective request for reparations and return of stolen works of art. The result of these omissions was the lack of any compensation for material losses incurred and a small part of the works of art taken from Nazi thieves belonging to the Polish people. This state of affairs gives reason to take energetic and decisive action in this field, all the more so because every now and then the world's public learns about the appalling attempts to market the images lost during the war, stolen from pre-war Polish galleries. The current state of research and interventions in international auction houses makes it clear that many of the Polish artifacts robbed during World War II are located in German and Austrian private houses. During World War II, Germans transported thousands of works of art from Warsaw alone, from private collections of Warsawians. The same robbery took place in other Polish cities. After 1945, the directions of their movements were unknown. A few years ago, the German Lost Art Foundation asked private collectors to review the collections for stolen Jewish property. This was done at the request of American Jews. This action brought tangible results A dozen exhibits returned to the rightful owners. After 1989, the Polish state never appealed to Western neighbours with similar appeal. I therefore ask the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, through the Senate Marshal, what concrete steps on behalf of the Polish State have been taken by the Ministry of Culture during the last year. What actions have been taken by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage on the basis of the provisions of the Act of 25 May 2017 on the restitution of cultural goods, the provisions of which are an instrument empowering the Minister responsible for cultural affairs to perform for the recovery of lost works, the representation of the State Treasury in matters relating to the restitution of cultural goods before the courts and authorities of foreign authorities and cooperation at that level with other countries of the European Union? I would like to stress that, at the initiative of the Polish government and supporting this government, a parliamentary majority on behalf of Law and Justice was launched in an international debate on the reparations for the war losses suffered by Poland in the years of the Nazi occupation. This is an excellent reason for placing among other important material claims also the issue of giving the works of art stolen from Poland and leading to cooperation in this matter the competent local authorities of foreign countries in which the continuous trading of these works is carried out. It is also worth recalling that each of the robbed artifacts is a part of the Polish cultural heritage, therefore their loss is still an open and painful wound, made on our national tissue by Nazi criminals of the Third Reich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u115	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The title of my statement was taken from the exposition of the Prime Minister Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. Let this Christmas table not be like a barricade. Let it be a place that connects and does not divide. Christmas is coming up, which in Polish tradition are celebrated with special piety. Regardless of the world view we recognize that this is a special time, a time in which we suspend disputes, remove masks, relax ties and meet in friendship to feel our humanity. After all, this is the pronunciation of Christmas: God has become man, the eternal has entered time, the Creator has humbled his majesty to become man One of us to meet us and wake up the dreams of eternity. If the Son of God could afford such humility, why can't we, politicians, often afford it? Why is it so difficult for us to get off the pedestal of infallibility and supposed knowledge? Why is it so difficult to devote the flash of reporters and supporters to a fair conversation with a political competitor? The other way of thinking, the other side of the barricade. Why is dialogue so difficult to risk? I wonder what Christmas table the politicians and the media are making today. Are the dishes we feed the Poles digestible for them? Prime Minister Morawiecki in his excellent exposé said: "Let this Christmas table not be like a barricade. Let it be a place that connects, not divides. Poland is our common good regardless of political or worldview differences. I believe it wasn't just courtesy wishes. It is the sincere will to lower the temperature of the political dispute, the will with which I am strongly identified and for which I am seeking. But in order for this to happen, good will and actions of all stakeholders are needed, most who respect the actions and words of the opposition and the opposition open to the majority. Remember, we speak many languages. It is the language of parliamentary debates, but also the language of street rallies, media statements or the language of voting decisions. We can't do that because we say one thing and we do the other. The will to approach must be reflected both in words and in deeds. Can we afford such a consequence? Can we afford humility, distance from our own ambitions and belief in Poland's sovereignty? Poland Eternally young and enslavingly beautiful, dangerous, but also full of majesty We still have new powers and abilities, pride and courage, great ideas and lively feelings. It's growing with us. It is our strength and our success. We will one day pass on the care of this treasure to our children and grandchildren, the words of President Andrzej Duda, who inspired us to special mobilize in the coming year 2018. It will be the jubilee year of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Could there be a better opportunity to take a step towards national reconciliation? That's what I want from my heart, and I wish all of us. I wish the coming holidays to be a time of conversation between Poles and Poles. Let's take a deep breath and rest in the knowledge that there are no topics we need to fear at the Christmas table. After all, we are close and we should build mutual trust. Because who, instead of us being reconciled and cooperating with each other, will build a successful Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am speaking to the Minister of the Family, Labour and Social Policy on the issue of very shocking farmers of southern Poland, where, as you know, the largest fragmentation of agricultural holdings occurs. There's tiny farms, two of them. - three hectare, and it is necessary to supplement the family budget by taking up work outside agriculture. Unfortunately, as a result of the revision of the rules that took place a few years ago, there is a situation that these farmers who were insured in KRUS, where, as you know, insurance premiums are relatively low, after taking up additional business activities, very often carried out in a completely symbolic dimension of, for example. Someone launches some small carpentry workshop or provides some other small services to supplement the modest budget of their farm farm, and they don't have to pay ZUS contributions. The amended provisions provide for a change in the insurance system in such a case. Unfortunately, the practice is that the decisions made by the Social Security Office that these people are to pay contributions usually reach them at a time when the requirement of these contributions is already on the verge of limitation, which is most often before the end of 5 years. Therefore, there is a huge accumulation of these arrears plus the obligation to pay statutory interest on these arrears. This leads in extreme situations to a sense of hopelessness, even a desire to take your own life. And I think that there should be some legislative action here, whether to apply absolution to those who, as a result of unawareness, have changed these provisions. As I say, it happened a few years ago, in such a way as to enable such people to pay their debts in convenient instalments, and, in particular, it should be possible for the State to refrain from collecting interest on these arrears. Similar solutions have often occurred in us before, whether in the case of tax arrears, or also in the case of ZUS receivables. I remember a few years ago when these solutions were adopted. This results in my request to take such legal action, as well as to change the practice of the ZUS, which should not wait until the arrears accumulate and will amount to... It should not wait five years to make a decision which in such a case already concerns very large amounts, impossible to bear and to be repaid by the said persons. I think that this is something that these people, and so living in relatively poor conditions, belong to our country, which is also a country with certain aspirations to care for its own citizens. Therefore, such intervention seems appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-21-senat-53-3.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fifty-third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The third sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 20 minutes 29]]
