ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the PO Club, I extend the rest until 9.30 a.m. We will resume the session at 9.30 a.m. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 01 to 9 minutes 30]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Izbo, let me remind you that yesterday's announcement of today's proceedings will start by considering item 11 of the agenda for the report on the state of protection of the Polish language, and then we will consider paragraphs 8 and 9 - the ratification laws. I would also like to remind you that today at 12.00 a half-hour break in the session will be ordered for the opening of the exhibition "Ormian" in Poland, after which we will proceed to the examination of the draft anniversary resolution and to the vote on this matter if legislative proposals are not submitted. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the report on the state of protection of the Polish language for the years 2014 to 2015. The text of the report is contained in print No 510. The Senate Marshal sent the report to the Committee on Culture and Media. The Commission took note of the report at its meeting on 20 June 2017 and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the President of the Polish Language Council to the Bureau of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Professor Andrzej Markowski, at the Senate meeting. Welcome, Professor. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I also welcome Mr Jan Dziedziczak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and be quiet. You're welcome. Our guests are here, and we've already begun our deliberations. [[Voice from the room: I'm alive!]] I ask the President of the Polish Language Council, Professor Andrzej Markowski, to speak and present the report. Professor, I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u2	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Polish Language Council pursuant to the Polish Language Act, specifically art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, is obliged to report to the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the state of protection of the Polish language. I have presented this report several times in committee meetings, in this case the Senate, and I am probably invited for the fourth time, which I am very honoured to attend the Senate plenary session. Previous reports of the Council focused on various aspects of the use of Polish language in Poland, on the analysis of e.g. the language of school textbooks, on how the Polish language is treated by various state institutions, at the state of Polish language culture in the school, on how leaflets are formulated informing about sold products, e.g. medicines, on the use of Polish in the business environment, on how Polish language is taught as a foreign language. I would like to remind you, in short, that these analyses have shown some correctness, namely, the higher the institution, the more important the organization, the less concerned about the Polish language it has in the course of its activity. Intensive activity in this area is carried out by primary cells, but it can be said that they do not usually have the strength to penetrate and influence the most important decision-making bodies. The conclusion is that if the big and demanding work on the protection of Polish language is not to go to waste, but, on the contrary, to result in a visible improvement of the state of Polish language, the problem must become a matter of interest to the highest state institutions, be perceived and appreciated by them. Otherwise, we're gonna keep seeing things like... Yesterday, I responded to a letter from one of the departments of the Ministry of Justice, which wrote a properly and well certificate certifying that the teacher had been appointed as a teacher, with a variation of the name of the teacher, while the teacher resented that his name had been changed. It was such a typical name that ended up on the street, and he thought... Let's say the name, I know... [[Lazy.]] Please? [[Lazy.]] Let's say Smoleń is such a famous name. So he, let's say that Grzegorz Smoleń, resented that the diploma was written to Grzegorz Smoleń. He thought it was appropriate to write to Grzegorz Smoleń. Well, here we would have to recall the position of the well-known pre-war, and a little and post-war mathematician Hugon Steinhaus, who always answered such questions: "Please, sir, you own your name only in the denominator. In other cases it is governed by grammar. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thus, the demand for invariability, especially in the case of popular names, is always something that is below the norm of Polish language. It's an introduction. In the report, which I will talk about today, we have dealt with something else, namely the important problem of promoting Polish language on the websites of embassies and consulates of the Republic, as well as Polish institutes. As you know, this is one of the tasks of Polish external language policy. This function of foreign services is mentioned in numerous legal acts, e.g. in the consular law referred to in Article. 18 states that the consul acts as a consular officer for the promotion of the Polish economy... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Professor. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. It's very difficult for the Professor to speak to us when there's so much noise in the gym.]] I'm a little used to it. At the beginning of the lecture, students also sound, but after 10 minutes they calm down. I was hoping that after 10 minutes the attention would be big enough to stop the noise. [[It's not been ten minutes, but we're calming down, and we're quiet.]] I've been teaching 47 years, so I'm used to situations. Consular law in Article. 18 states that the consul acts as a consular officer for the promotion of the Polish economy, science and culture and Polish language. In the priorities of Polish foreign policy for the years 2012 and 2016 there is a promotion of Polish language abroad. There are several other acts that say that promoting Polish abroad is one of the important objectives of our foreign policy. As you know, the Senate of the Republic takes care of Polonia and Poles in exile, and their language is also important here. The analysis was based on 119 websites of diplomatic offices, 85 embassies and 34 consulates, in 88 countries and 23 websites of Polish institutes in 21 countries. In order to learn something, people are now primarily referring to the information contained on the Internet. This is a justification for the choice of the means of communication that we have analysed. A total of 142 websites were analyzed in different language versions In Polish, the official language of the country concerned and the language with global status, i.e. English, Russian, French. The prospect of an average person who would like to be, for example, was adopted. find out where you can learn Polish. Such a person does not usually search the entire page with all bookmarks, but wants simple access to the information sought. Therefore, the site of specific content devoted to polish in the structure of each website and its content was subject to analysis. The compositional analysis concerned the parties of embassies and consulates. It was possible because the sides of diplomatic institutions in the msz.gov.pl domain have a uniform shape. Such a pattern is lacking on the pages of Polish institutes, which made the task difficult. The composite analysis carried out for the main menu took into account the presence of a bookmark dedicated to Polish cuisine, the location of information about Polish cuisine and the level of exposure of information about Polish cuisine. It was examined whether information about Polish appears in the main menu, as the main menu contains content devoted to Polish and whether information about teaching Polish appears in the main menu. The content analysis included several points, e.g. whether there is information about centres in Poland offering Polish language teaching as a foreign language, whether there is information about Polish schools in a given country, whether there is information about Polish language certification, whether there is basic information about Polish language, etc. Anecdote à propos information about Polish. On the website of one diplomatic service, the first sentence on Polish language was: Polish is one of the most difficult languages in the world. Such a sentence undoubtedly encourages those who would like to learn Polish to learn this language. Of course, this sentence is not true because each language is difficult in its own way. Poland is, so to speak, difficult in one area, and other languages are difficult in other areas. With regard to information about centres offering Polish as a foreign language in Poland, it was information about whether there are centres which are in Poland, in the host country, what are Polish schools and what are school consultative points. There are quantitative and qualitative differences in the lists of these schools. It was common practice to simply paste the list of 15 academic centers from science. gov.pl. It is undoubtedly desirable to draw information from the government, but attention should be paid to the fact that this list was published in 2010 and that it would be advisable to check its validity. This list also did not contain contact details, but only the name of the schools themselves. So it was quite random. As regards centres in a given country offering to teach Polish as a foreign language, which is a particularly important element for foreigners wishing to learn Polish, the information was very diverse in this respect. There were also pages containing information on preparatory courses and private schools. There were parties with a clear structure in which different types of Polish language teaching were clearly separated from each other. This was the case on the embassy sites in Dublin, Berlin or Vienna. And also certification of Polish as a foreign language. Although the content on certification is particularly important, it is relatively rare in practice. Only 20% of the pages in Polish and 6% foreign-language websites were provided with such information. There were also various degrees of information. Basic information about the Polish language is provided by few pages. In Polish-language versions this information concerned, among others. history, number of users, places of Polish language among other languages and Polish alphabet. The factual messages included the origin of Polish as a foreign language and the number of users along with their geographical distribution. By the way, I can add here that a few years ago, the Polish Language Council published a several-page brochure in all EU languages, a brochure on basic information about Polish language. This brochure was sent to all EU embassies. It was also distributed in Brussels or Luxembourg when representatives of the Polish Language Council appeared there. Interestingly, we have printed up to 200 copies of this brochure in Maltese. This is very much for the number of Maltese speaking Maltese. It was also the only difficulty, because we did not find a direct translator from Polish to Maltese. This was translated from English by the president of the Maltese translation section in the European Parliament. This brochure is still being distributed. If one of your senators is interested in a brochure on Polish in any language of the European Union, it is available at the Polish Language Council. Information about other materials concerning Polish were sporadic on these pages. Sometimes it was sent back to the dictionaries. As regards such a collective assessment of information, there were different types of information: firstly, no information concerning the Polish language; secondly, the residual information, which concerned only one issue; thirdly, the fragmentary information, incomplete; fourthly, the information of the good; and fifthly, the complete information. How does it look in the summary? Well, the complete information contained only 8% websites, good information. 12% pages, fragmentary, 37%, residual information, 24%. We have noted a lack of information on 19% of the pages of embassies and consulates in the Polish version. In the local version it looked quite similar, but the lack of information occurred up to 28% of pages. The percentages show that the promotion of Polish language on the websites of Polish diplomatic institutions sometimes does not exist at all, and in most cases it is residual or fragmented. Only up to about 20% of pages cannot be blamed because the information is good or complete. It's not upbuilding, it's, you know, depressing. There have been misinformation. There is, for example. such a bookmark, where there is a graphic item, the letters Polish and Polish, are, but in some embassies in this bookmark there were e.g. information on visa-free travel, the rules for implementing Polish projects or the civil status office's files. The interesting thing is that some of the embassies have been promoting universities, private schools, which may be good, but I don't know if it's right here. Polish Institutes promoted Polish language even less than these diplomatic institutions. Overall, I've narrowed it down a little bit. The conclusions are this. The analysis carried out on 142 websites makes it possible to draw conclusions on both the way of transmission, i.e. the structure of the parties, information on the Polish language as well as their quantity and quality. Unfortunately, these parties promote Poland in a way far from ideal. In many cases there are no language versions of the website, especially Polish versions of many Polish institutes. The structure of the website is often uneven and opaque. Information about the Polish language is given to a large extent chaoticly, in different locations on individual pages or in different language versions. A lot of data is out of date. The content of the Polish language information is equally imperfect. Most pages contain residual or fragmentary information, and even completely ignore it. Sporadically, good or complete information appears. There is no clear, uniform set of information necessary for the effective promotion of Polish language. It was such an outrage that, so to speak, we ran away from the analysis of contemporary Polish in Poland. What's next? The next report is intended to be devoted to the language of public speeches. It empowers us to do this... I was obliged by the bureau to read the statement of the Bureau of the Polish Language Council at the Bureau of the Polish Academy of Sciences. The statement is this: For several months now, we have been observing the ongoing brutalisation of the language of public speaking and the increasing frequency of language manipulation in the public narrative. Brutalisation is the use of words from the lower register of common language, on the border of vulgarity. There is no reason to cite examples, as this would promote the dissemination of such vocabulary. Such statements appear in public speeches by Members, high officials, leaders of political parties, journalists and publicists. This raises the fundamental opposition of the members of the Bureau of the Polish Language Council at the Bureau of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the institution responsible for the state of contemporary public Poland. As much opposition is caused by language abuse, including language abuse. on arbitrary change of meanings of words, giving expressive meanings to words that have not yet been defined, including specialized terms, which should describe reality objectively, as well as the use of valuable labels and stereotypes in relation to political opponents. This leads to a violation of the basic principles of the ethics of the word, as well as the spread of a public language that does not allow social dialogue and agreement, and On the contrary It's a scavengering and excruciating argument. All misunderstandings begin with words, for it has long been known that words shape reality, presenting it in a certain way. Therefore, the Bureau of the Polish Language Council strongly urges politicians and journalists to stop using violent expressions, depreciating people and institutions, terms marked by a large load of expression and non-manipulation of meanings of expressions. We are convinced that all courts and evaluations, not to mention the reporting of facts, can be expressed in ethical and aesthetic language, cultural Polish language and deprived of violent elements. We would like to remind you that the Polish Language Council is obliged to report to the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the state of protection of the Polish language. The next report is intended to be devoted to the language of public speeches. I'm making this statement to your marshal. That is what I had to say about this report, which has already been prepared, and what we are going to do next. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u3	Thank you very much, Professor. Among those who brute Polish, you did not exchange senators for happiness. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Chairman of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: No, no. There are no senators in this statement either.]] There are no senators in this statement, yes, I checked it out, too. Ladies and gentlemen, so that we can enjoy this. Ladies and gentlemen... [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: But, excuse me, you can try to influence others.]] Good. This is our job. [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Yes.]] Thank you very much, Professor. Would any of your senators like to ask a question to the President of the Polish Language Council, Professor Andrzej Markowski? You were the first to sign up for Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u4	Professor, Mr President, you probably didn't notice that I wasn't applauding. I didn't applaud because I'm pitied that the council doesn't support my request enough. But I think it's not just mine that I read about it with Professor Bralczyk, many Polish speakers... This is a question at the same time. In modern calendars... keyboards, whether computer or mobile, or others, for years, and it is not known why, there are no diacritic signs, i.e. there is no part of Polish language. The last time I asked Mr. Chairman that question, well, you spread your hands that this is a concern matter. Well, I can assure you that in the industry I've been working on. Not as a senator In the readers, in the panels of copiers and other devices, Polish language was introduced in the set. And I regret that we learn on English keyboards, while many countries have keyboards, such as German or Spanish. There are no technical obstacles to the Polish keyboard... It can't be that the keyboards in such a large number sold in Poland are simplified, they're staged. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u5	This case was the subject of interest of the Polish Language Council several years ago. At the time, we were told that there were no technical possibilities. There were even such... well, unacceptable concepts to replace Polish letters with some other ones, e.g. to write instead of writing, etc. Luckily, it fell. Prof. Andrzej Jacek Blikle, who is a member of the Polish Language Council, spoke about the fact that there is a possibility, it is possible to produce keyboards with Polish characters and such keyboards were produced. Unfortunately, they didn't sell. It's just that. There's no... Of course, we are all for such keyboards not only to produce, but also to sell, only if there are no customers, because apparently everyone got used to those standardized keyboards that are... Apparently they stopped producing because there was no sale. And there's nothing we can do about it for the market. That's my answer to that question. But I'm all for it. Just as I am, of course, in favour of using Polish diacritic characters in emails, but also in texts, because this is something that distinguishes Polish from other languages and, more importantly, their non-application can lead to misunderstandings. My classic example is that I'm going to the orchard or I'm going to court completely different. As I see my wife instead of my wife, it's nothing upbuilding either. Some examples that can be misleading could be cited for a long time. Therefore, diacritics should be used. The same thing with what the Polish Language Council, Senator, had won ten or a dozen years ago, namely that on the shirts of our athletes their names should appear with diacritic signs. It used to be written, for example. "Golas" instead of "Goal." Now, as I watch a football or volleyball game, first I look at the back of the players' shirts, whether there are Polish diacritic signs or not. Whether it is Blaszczykowski or it is Błaszczykowski. Lewandowski's not in trouble because there's no sign. But for the first time... I remember, it was one of Europe's soccer championships, and then, unfortunately, we fell right out in the first round, and I don't know if that's why. But of course it is now. And all members of the Polish Language Council are in favour of using Polish diacritics. And when it comes to computer keyboards, it's like I said.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u6	Thank you very much, Professor. You're Marshal Michael Sewerinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Professor, is the Polish Language Council familiar with information on how large the number of people who speak Polish in the world, not Poles, but those who speak Polish? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u8	The definition of who is Polish and who is not is very difficult, isn't it? It's said Because there are no such detailed studies The number of people using Polish language outside Poland may reach up to 10 million. I think it's a little exaggerated. Because there is another question: what does it mean to use Polish? As you know, e.g. there are levels within the certificate A, B, C, A1, B1, etc. So the question is: is it at all that someone knows Polish or that he speaks Polish well? But that's the rule of greatness.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Antoni Szymanski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this statement, which you have read, about the brutalisation of the language not only of politics but also of the public debate. It is very necessary and I think we feel it so commonly. But I'd like to ask you a question like that. Whether, regardless of this statement and announcements, that the next analysis will be devoted to the language of the public debate in Poland, the state predicts e.g. any discussions among themselves, among the public, that maybe could be broadcast? There are possibilities for electronic transmission of such events. The idea is to talk about these problems not only in the Senate, but also more broadly so that public opinion knows these problems and to really shape a different language of public debate than is happening very often at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u11	In the Polish Language Council more than a year ago, a Group of Word Ethics was established, chaired by Prof. Jadwiga Puzyn, a well-known linguist and a promoter of the ethics of the word, in general dealing with the values of the language. This team is counting. And it's very good, but it's also unique. More than 150 people, or even more, from different backgrounds. And there are such debates within this team, but unfortunately they are not public. But in April next year a joint conference of the Group of Word Ethics and the corresponding team of the Polish Academy of Skills in Krakow is planned. And no doubt then it will be public. If I remember correctly, it'll be April 17th. And we will also talk about this issue. Anyway, about the ethics of the word and about the brutalization of the language. we speak in many situations, e.g. When we're on the radio or on the TV. Unfortunately, it is not so easy to get through to the means of disseminating information, i.e. to the media. I think that in some ways this good Polish language is promoted by such actions of the Polish Language Council as the Polish Ambassador. On November 5th in Katowice will be held the fifth gala of the Polish Ambassador. During the gala we award the titles of the Polish Ambassador to people who speak the language in a correct, efficient and ethical manner. The title of the Great Polish Ambassador has already been given: Tadeusz Konwicki, Tadeusz Różewicz, Wiesław Myśliwski. This year, this title is awarded to writer Jacek Bocheński. So that there is also such an action, unfortunately not broadcast on public television, because there will always be other events that are more important at this time, but there is a record of these gals that are spreading good Polish.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u12	Thank you very much. Senator Alicia the Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u13	Thank you very much. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Professor, I can say that in the committee we often pay attention to the very proper actions of our consulates, embassies, institutes. I did not expect that in this report you presented to us today, there will also be comments on these institutions. I was very hit here by information concerning Polish institutes that from 2013 to 2016 could not put the version in Polish on pages of many, many institutes. [[Chairman of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Despite the announcements, this is how it is to be done.]] This is very strange and surprising. Second thing. After all, the promotion of Polish language is recorded in consular law. [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Yes.]] So how can this be changed so that it is understood that updating the pages of the consulate and placing the version in Polish is nevertheless a duty? For a young generation of Poles living abroad knows foreign languages, but my generation Not necessarily, even despite a long stay. So who can change that? Is this information you have provided to the Senate known to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the Prime Minister or to the relevant people in the Ministry of Culture? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u14	This information is transmitted by the Polish Language Council according to its competence to the Sejm and the Senate. But I think the Senate committee might be interested in... We have no direct influence on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I think that you, your committee, can intervene here. If the Ministry of Foreign Affairs applies to us with such a request for cooperation or assistance, then of course we will be willing... not only to be willing, but to do so. That's the way I see it. The Polish Language Council did what it could, i.e. She presented the condition as it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Professor, do school textbooks that are allowed to be used by students go to the board? Because sometimes I get the impression that there is no voice like the voice of the council when preparing these textbooks. And I think this is extremely important, especially in the case of primary school students, although I do notice that I had contact with textbooks actually at every level of education There are a lot of mistakes that, unfortunately, children and young people are exposed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u17	It seems that at the Ministry of National Education there is a committee and there are experts who evaluate each textbook in terms of substance, but a separate expert evaluates the textbook in terms of language. So that every textbook should be evaluated, not by the council, but by experts recommended by the board. Besides, a few years ago, I no longer remember whether 2 reports ago or 3 reports ago were an analysis of school textbooks, the language of school textbooks, where we accused these textbooks primarily of being overly scientific, over-terminating, using words that were not understood for children, and just the way that children were treated, as if they were mini-students, so to speak. Of course, the Polish Language Council has a teaching team and this teaching team speaks In the autumn of last year he spoke twice about the content of Polish language programmes to primary and secondary schools. Our first opinion, which was created was very little time, the ministry gave us a week, but we stepped up and gave perhaps a 10-page opinion, was very negative. And what made us happy was that many of the demands that were there were fulfilled. I mean, the new version didn't have those problems anymore. Then there was our opinion about the high school program. Of course, we are talking about Polish language understood as a language, not as Polish literature. Because only in this area is the Polish Language Council competent. So, of course, we deal with textbooks on a daily basis. Perhaps... If we have signals that some textbooks contain language forms, they contain wordings that are incorrect, of course we respond to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u18	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Żaryn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u19	Thank you very much. Professor, I have two questions. The first is actually a request to clarify the answer to Professor Sewerinski's question. [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Yes.]] Maybe I was the only one who didn't understand the answer, but I think it's unlikely that only 10 million people outside the country would know Polish. Tell us how it is spread out when it comes to Poles outside the country and foreigners who... [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Yes.]] ...they speak Polish. Because, as I understand it, this $10 million is probably about foreigners, but I'd rather hear it from you. Or some more precise data broken down by Poles outside the country and foreigners... [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Yes.]] The second question concerns a very distant sphere maybe from the everyday life that we live, but it seems that in the long term the Council is most likely dealing with it. [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Yes.]] So I'd ask you to answer a question that might sound a little vague, but I think it's important. Namely whether the board monitors in a long distance, i.e. even between generations, language differences in Polish going so far that we lose communication between generations? Of course, I am referring mainly to the technical, technological language resulting from technological changes, civilizations. Is there such a thing as the functioning of the language as a basis for Community communication and the dangers resulting from this incredibly rapid filling in the Polish language with foreign words, phrases? In a longer period of time, due to the general educational cycle only up to the age of nineteen, this causes us not to understand ourselves between generations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u20	Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u21	It would be awful if we... But I'm going back to the first question. With regard to this number of 10 million, 90% These are Poles who... Polonia - Yeah, you could say that. - Mm-hmm. And Poles... There are no emigrants in this number in the last 20 years. We don't count these, because this emigration is relative emigration. Right? People are now abroad, two years from now, they'll be here. And these are the people who have already emigrated. As far as foreigners are concerned, maybe a certain approximation gives how many people pass certification exams from Polish as an alien. Last year it's a little over 2,000 people, so it's not a shocking number. Half of them are from the east, i.e. above all Ukrainians, some Belarusians, Russians, but mostly Ukrainians. So if you don't mind... Of course, not everyone who knows the Polish language gives a certification exam, but it is to be expected that those who want to somehow exist in this Polish language are such exams given at different levels. I'm not saying that right away on level C, but on level B, B1 even. Those are the numbers. Polish language was popular in the early 1980s because of the choice of the Pope and Solidarity. I was a Polish speaker in Florence at the time, so I saw how much interest and how few Italians were learning Russian at the time, and how many were learning Polish at the time. At the moment, the situation is completely different. At the moment, Polishist institutions in the West are closing down. I know that there are many such facilities in Germany. Even in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, where there were Polish studies, now there is a lesson about Central European culture and there is a Polish language tutor. So our task, everyone, and especially the central authorities, is to promote this Polish language, knowledge about Polish, encourage studying or learning Polish. As far as the second question is concerned, of course it is that we are observing what will happen to Polish. The 10th Word Culture Forum took place 2 years ago in Bydgoszcz and had a theme about the Polish future of the future. Well, of course I'm alone. I'm just saying it in private. I don't like to talk about what's going to happen to the tongue in the future, because you never know how something's going to develop. However, some trends are clear, i.e. there's a lot of concern. And we see it. The fact that the Polish scientific language is going further and further. And here, unfortunately, it is supported by various regulations, e.g. ministerial, stating that all grant applications must be completed in the correct language only, i.e. English... or in some other, but mostly in English, and only the summaries can be in Polish. Maybe it's right in the case of science or natural sciences, but in the field of history or Polish science it's a little absurd, because the historian writes... In addition, these grants are often only for the Polish environment. Thus, the fact that it is required, I would say, such internationalization of the language does not favour the development of the Polish scientific language. And there is such fear that in a few dozen years we will not be able to communicate scientifically in Polish in many fields. As far as school is concerned, this is where we pay attention to this... Otherwise, I'm gonna say it. What else is environmental polish, e.g., let's say, school and other general language. I am quite tolerant to various environmental varieties of Polish, I think people grow up, for example. from the school's Polish language, i.e. youthful, and they can use these different terms, which I do not completely understand, because they are e.g. shortcuts or English shortcuts. But I also think that it is important to ensure that there is not too much unnecessary or that there are no unnecessary loans to general Polish so as not to introduce the so-called. language calculation. I do not know if you have noticed that lately such an English carbon is fashionable, i.e. dedicated in the sense of "to." E.g. oil dedicated to the engine. Right? The day before yesterday I drove to Katowice and from Katowice and read a very nice text on the screen in Pendolino's car: in the first class will be served by the service of dedicated dishes. And this dedicated in the sense of "to" is simply a meaning of English, and it is absolutely unnecessary, or even difficult to communicate. I don't know if I've satisfied the Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jadwiga Rotnicka. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Professor, this is Senator Żaryn in his second question almost exhausted what I wanted to ask you. But I will add that in addition to these cases, the type of "dedicated" is also one in which the Polish words are replaced completely by words from English, and more and more often. I mean, for example. the word "event," which appears here and there very often, and in advertisements, and elsewhere. Or coaching, etc. So that protecting the Polish language in a foreign country, we must pay attention To protect our native language also in the country. I don't know how this is gonna go down. And you, too, have doubts about how our language will develop. But let me ask you: do we have any way of paying attention to the various announcements, to invitations so that such words may not be there? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u24	There you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u25	It's hard, for example. because the Polish language law is not subject to its own names. Many times we have been asked why, for example, how is it going? In Warsaw, Nowy Świat or Krakowskie Przedmieście, you can see the names of the premises in a foreign language. These are their own names. If this provision of the Polish language law disappears, we will be able to intervene in this matter. But I remind you that in the year 1998, when the bill was passed in the Seym... in 1999 it was passed, but before that there was a discussion, and Members were surprised and outraged: whether it means that if the Polish language law comes into force, it will be necessary to change the name of a certain alcohol to 'Cause she sounds different in English? About your own names... Well, there's the question of what's its own name. As far as the names of the premises are concerned, there is nothing here but an appeal to broadcast these Polish names. When it comes to, for example, About school textbooks or... There should be more language culture at school That's what I'd say. It should be made clear to students that not everything English or American is good in naming. We're watching this, too, when it comes to names. Recently, a week ago, a Forum for Culture of the Word was held dedicated to names of its own in Polish. I was there presenting a paper about the bizarre names people want to give their children. In many cases they are simply English or American names, often even not graphically adapted to Polish language, because it is so fashionable. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Because I can still talk, so that... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u26	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u27	Mrs. Marshal! Professor! I'd like to ask you about the situation of the Kashubian language. The professor is the President of the Polish Language Council, and the Kashubian language is the only regional language recognised by law in Poland, by state institutions, local authorities, protected language, so that so to speak, he has full support. This language is one of the languages at risk. Although it is used by a large part of the inhabitants of Pomorskie voivodship, there are still concerns that it may not survive this pressure from external languages. I would like to ask whether the Polish Language Council is looking at this problem, these issues and the risks that apply to the Kashubian language, whether it cooperates with the Kashubian Language Council, or whether it supports this advice in its various activities. The Kashubian Language Council is a fully social body, composed only of people who take their actions socially, i.e. without any fees. Do you think you should commit or ask the Pomeranian voivodship local government, the Pomeranian voivodship sejmik, to report regularly, as in the Senate, on Polish language, in the Pomeranian voivodship sejmik on the state, condition of the Kashubian language as the only regional language in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u28	First, there's a supplement. Everyone who works on the Polish Language Council also works socially. We don't get any pay, so this is the same situation. I once heard that the Kashubian Language Council has a bigger budget than the Polish Language Council, but I will not comment on it. Yes, we made contact with the Kashubian Language Council a few years ago, and we invite them regularly to our meetings, but unfortunately they do not come. I'm sorry, maybe it's too far for them or something. Thank you very much, senator, for paying attention to this. In that case, I will once again take the initiative of closer cooperation with the Kashubian Language Council, because this is the advice. We're the closest ones. Last year the Polish Language Council was the organizer of such a pan-European conference of the European Federation for National Languages, but only national languages appeared there, Kashubian was not there. It turns out that in most European countries there are such councils that are equivalent to the Polish Language Council. As regards the Kashubian language, I believe that the Senator's initiative is right and that such reports on the condition of the Kashubian language could be presented, including in the Senate and the Sejm, especially in the Senate. I don't know what he's like right now, or is that language as much at risk as the senator said.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor! I have a question. not directly, closely related to the report, but indirectly, yes. Thanks to Art. 13 basic law in this case, i.e. the Polish language law, you have the opportunity as a council to express certain opinions not only requested by individual institutions in it, but also on your own initiative. Well, I am interested in the issue of the contact of Polish language with, generally speaking, computer science. The famous ones, we've already talked about them. Polish diacritic signs, but not only that, because this is the tip of the iceberg. We have the Ministry of Digitization. Don't you think the professor should just at some point sit down with this ministry at the table and show those threats to the Polish language that lurch in this sphere? Because the fact that Polish signs will, as it is commonly said, fall out of use, especially by young people, because it is mostly young people who use smartphones... Well, that's what we should be thinking about and countering. And these aren't always things that require big investments, sometimes you just need to find the problem, define it and respond properly to the power. Let me put it this way: what you asked Senator Rulewski... He talked about keyboards, but at the moment most keyboards are not hardware keyboards, i.e. pieces of plastic, these are software keyboards created on the screen, and this can be done in any way, it is only a matter of forcing those who create software located on Poland so that these software keyboards are properly formulated. And such points Internet domain names, address names, etc. There's a lot more. Professor, isn't it time we just together with the digital experts, from computerization to show these threats and roads, directions to counter them?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u31	Yes, thank you. We have an IT terminology team on the board headed by Professor Blikle, and now, on November 14th, there will be a plenary session of the board, and I will make this request to him to actually... because it is important and it needs to be done. Maybe we've actually neglected it. So thank you for this remark, indeed this is the way to do it. We have to make sure it's all, well, at least uncontested with Polish, I'd say. [[If I may, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u32	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u33	Just one line. Well, it's not about terminology, it's about whether it's called a computer, it's about smartphones, it's about smartphones. Because it's less dangerous. This is about more basic issues: the contact of language with even international law and with the outside world, when this world does not see, in quotes, Polish characters. How to do this so that at least Polish language is used in Poland, not crippled Polish language. [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Yes, yes.]] Because this can be done in a software way, which is less interfering with equipment. And this is important.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u34	Yes, here I will say that such a threat is the law which was passed probably several years ago, about the so-called. Cover translations. So all standards, in different fields, are not translated into Polish because there would be too much of it. You only give a Polish cover. We protested. On the website of the Polish Language Council is the appropriate material It is against the fact that only a Polish cover is given, and then the text in the original language, that is, English. And that's also the threat you're talking about, yes. It was a very big blow to Polish, so to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Klein wants to ask you something else. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal, Professor, you may not ask, but you will present a minor correction. I asked for a possible report on the condition of the Kashubian language not in the Seym or in the Senate, but rather in the Seym of the Pomeranian Voivodeship. Because Kashubian is used in the area of Pomeranian Voivodeship. So the expectation that this issue should be the subject of a plenary debate in the Senate and in the Sejm would, of course, be too much to expect, I think. [[Chairman of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: But in the committee can be.]] It's okay on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u37	Thank you. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u38	Ms Marshal, Mr Professor, for many terms there has been a legislative initiative for the majority of Members from the Silesian region to persuade the High House to establish the Silesian language. I would like to ask the professor if it is possible to speak in the context of a dozen or so dialects used in particular in Upper Silesia about the type of separate language, or rather it is a dialect of Polish language. What is the position of the Polish Language Council on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u39	There you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u40	Oh, this is a very difficult issue, because the linguists in general believe that whether or not something is a language is not strictly linguistic, but it is simply a political matter. In the early 1940's, he separated himself, for example. Macedonian language, for which the Bulgarians still say that these are the western Bulgarian language, not any Macedonian language. They want it to be Macedonian. And that's how it's been recognised. The Lemkos believe that they also have their own language, not that these are Western Ukrainian vermin. About the Silesia... I use this term Silesia, not to say whether it is a chatter or not. This is a very difficult matter, because it really is so that, unlike e.g. to Kashubian, where basically there were only 2 separate dialects of North Kashubian and South Kashubian In Silesia, at least 3 regions can be spoken of. It means: Upper Silesia, Silesia Opole and Silesia Cieszyński, which is partly outside Poland. And then there's another story. That the noises, at least Upper Silesia, are not only folk noises, but at the same time urban noises. There's already an alphabet, there's a record in this face or in this language. How's this gonna go on? That must be interpreted very carefully. Undoubtedly, Silesia is part of the Polish language, i.e. The Silesian Gwaras are just as Polish as Małopolskie, Mazowieckie or Wielkopolskie Gwaras. There is no doubt that parallel development can be identified. It's not like in Kashubian, where this development was slightly different than in Polish. The linguists long considered kashubish as Polish dialects, but now it turns out that it can be considered a regional language. But I think if the Silesian community... However, please note that in Silesia, I do not know how many, only about 160,000 people speak strongly in favour of... I used to read such data. So not everyone living in Silesia. Because not everyone living in Silesia is Silesian. That needs to be made clear. Right? Not everyone in Silesia is in favour of considering this as a regional language. But it is well known that opposition, prohibition is the worst possible situation, because then resistance is aroused, as in some... I read that Silesian comes directly from the Praslavic language or from the ancient Slavic language. That's complete nonsense. I mean, they're getting stiffer. However, if most of the inhabitants of Silesia think that this is a separate regional language, then, I think, it will eventually have to be recognised, although, as I say, all linguistic experts indicate that these are Polish games, as well as other chatters. Besides, the first Silesian games were described as Polish folk noises at the end of the 19th century. In the work of Kazimierz Nitsch, the Silesian bustle begins. So it's like this. So it's very complicated. But I speak here rather than the Polish Language Council. We weren't specially involved in this on the council, I mean. We didn't really do that. I don't think it's right to put things on the edge of a knife, and it's not right to speak so strongly. From a linguistic point of view, it is as I said, and from a social point of view it can be interpreted very differently.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u41	Thank you very much. Would Senator Jan Maria Jackowski like to ask a question? [[Yes, sir.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u42	Thank you very much, Marshal. Professor, I'd like to continue with this subject that you've taken up by Professor Senator Sewerinski and Professor Żaryn. Namely, I would have asked that question differently. [[Chairman of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Yes?]] How many people in the world today speak Polish in the opinion of the Polish Language Council?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u43	I don't know. There's no such thing as research.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u44	In that case, my second question... [[What does it matter?]] ...are those people who have left Poland over the last several years... [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Yes.]] Of course, there's a dispute here because it's an estimate, although the last census said it was about 2.5 million people... [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Yes, up to 3 million.]] Are these people included in these... [[Chairman of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: No.]] ...10 million of which...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u45	No, no, I said it. No, those people don't count. It doesn't count, because they're too short abroad to talk about whether or not they're gonna stay there permanently. Right? We don't know if they're gonna stay there or not. It's without those people. There's always talk of that $10 million. I, in contrast to Professor Garyna, believe that this is a bit excessive. Moreover, it is difficult to say what it means to say: it speaks Polish. To what extent? Does he just understand every day or does he just understand? Or, for example, in the family circle Yeah, except for the family. No? These are very difficult questions. And these are all estimates. However, the Polish diaspora is undoubtedly large. [[And one last question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u46	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u47	...which I wanted to ask. Namely, the professor mentioned in his speech, and rightly... You pointed out the brutalisation of Polish language in the public debate. [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Yes, in the public debate.]] What is the assessment of the Polish Language Council or your professor regarding the fact that journalists also unfortunately participate in this and use not only words offensive but even curses in public space? [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Yes, of course...]] Such examples are known. And they are unfortunately journalists who like to call for tolerance, for light, for democracy, for different values. What is the assessment of such behavior? I don't want it here. Intentionally use names, give the names of these people from among the journalistic environment. But I would like to ask if the Polish Language Council leaned on this problem because they are opinion-making environments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u48	Of course. In this appeal I've read, there's something about this... Among other things, journalists are mentioned there. We are aware that journalists can do very much here and good and bad. We're not wondering... We do not judge language or politicians or journalists from so-called. A wiretap, from the recordings, because we don't think it's a public appearance. Right? If it wasn't meant to be... What we think about people who say that is different, but we judge public appearances. Indeed, we pay attention not only to politicians or even politicians, but above all to journalists who behave ethically. It's not even about using vulgarity, but it's about using terms that stigmatize or immediately... Well, what's the most important thing and what's not in the press? It is not usually the case, but it is now more and more visible, and the same was true in the Polish People's Republic. It is a deliberate failure to distinguish information from comment. In the code of journalistic ethics, at some point, it is clearly stated that information and comment should be distributed. However, using such phrases, known for a long time as, let's say, "say" or "like"... This is not information, it is a commentary, and it is given in the information. No doubt the reporters will say here again that they are boys to beat or girls to beat... Well, you don't say girls to beat, you say boys to beat. So unfortunately, it is so that journalists have great influence. I'm not talking about that, of course. This is no longer a matter of public debate, but of public language. It is also necessary to ensure that, however, in all the TV series that are going... Well, it's supposed to be the language that it really is, but do you really have to curse for power in different TV shows? I'm not convinced of that. These are so-called. artistic means, but... these are non-artistic means, I'd say. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u49	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Professor. [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Thank you very much.]] Would Mr Jan Dziedziczak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Of course.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking you very much for inviting me to the meeting of the High House and the opportunity to discuss this issue, on the promotion of Polish language. I understand that the assessment of websites outside the country is not my role. Even though I have been a parliamentarians for three terms, I do not want to judge these parties and their technical qualities. I think that when it comes to websites, we would be much more comfortable talking at the committee meeting, because the committee meeting has a more technical dimension, but, of course, I will also try to address it in plenary, perhaps more generally. - No, it's definitely more general. For the issues raised here. Ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of Polish language is a constant priority of Polish foreign policy. Of course, there are two dimensions of working with Polish language outside the country. One dimension is working with our compatriots, descendants of our compatriots, in short, working with Polonia, with Poles in the East. The second dimension is the promotion of Polish language as a foreign language, the promotion of Polish language addressed to foreigners. Promotion of Polish language is a constant priority of Polish foreign policy. Polish Institutes abroad, 24 institutions supervised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, conduct and co-lead Polish language courses, organize a number of educational and cultural projects related to the science and promotion of our language. I am speaking here of course all the time about promoting Polish as a foreign language. Last year more than 170 projects related to language diplomacy were carried out, among which Polish language courses, conferences, literature translations and participation in the European Day of Languages played a significant role. Polish foreign institutions are effectively lobbying for the presence of Polish language not only in cultural and scientific institutions in the countries of office, but also in the tourist and service sectors. It is worth noting that also as part of the grant competitions of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, projects are supported aimed at students and students as well as teachers of Polish language abroad. Polish language is increasingly becoming the second or third foreign language in the primary and secondary education system of some European countries. Well, for example. In German primary and secondary schools, several thousand children learn Polish. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the support of the Minister of National Education, is working to ensure that in other countries the intensive migration of Poles from recent years, such as the UK and Ireland, can develop similar solutions, which are provided for by European Union legislation. All over the world, new centres of Polish studies and Polish studies are being established, which are often accompanied by an increase in economic relations with Poland. This is particularly evident in China. On 11 October 2017 the first year of studies in Polish philology was inaugurated at the Shanghai University of International Studies. Thirteen students started their studies. Polish philology is a 4-year bachelor's degree, which enables learning Polish and Polish literature, and in the long term they establish a scientific exchange between students and staff of Polish and Shanghai University of International Studies. The University of International Studies in Xian, China was established in June 2017. Centre for Research in Poland. By agreement with the rector of the Catholic University of Lublin, Fr. Professor Antonim Dębiński, the plan is to start Polish studies and exchange students. On the other hand, in Chengdu at the University of Sichuan, after the beginning of the academic year 2017/2018 and the recruitment of students will probably be started Polish studies. It's going to be a "Polish+" program. We are particularly interested in learning Polish in Eastern Partnership countries, Ukraine, Belarus and Georgia, and Asia, mainly in China, South Korea, Japan, India, Vietnam and Indonesia. The activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in these countries consist primarily in supporting Polish studies in the sense of traditional philological studies of translators and teachers of Polish language, supporting Polish studies centres, scientific units in foreign universities functioning either autonomously, or within larger departments, mainly international relations or European science. An example is the Centres for Research on Poland and Central Europe in Calcutta, Manipal in India, which aim to promote Poland and build a platform for cooperation for Polish and Indian researchers, entrepreneurs and students. Such activities are also based on co-organization of cyclical congresses of Polish politicians from China, the Republic of Korea and Japan. Polish Institutes in the world co-organize Polish language courses and organize a number of educational projects. Especially interesting is the radio-internet project Learn Polish with Fun Kids Radio which has been going on for 5 years. It is a Polish language course organized by the Polish Institute in London for the youngest British people available on the Internet platform of the British Fun Kids Radio. It has been used by tens of thousands of British children. I stress that I am constantly talking about our activities promoting Polish as a foreign language. Cultural activities. The Found in Translation Award for the best translator of Polish literature into English is awarded annually by the Book Institute and Polish Institutes in New York and London. Due to the need for self-financing Polish language courses by Polish institutes, we are investigating the introduction of the necessary legal changes enabling the institutes to do so. The self-financing of Polish language courses by Polish institutes will build a new quality link in the awareness of foreigners: Polish Institute The recommended place to learn Polish. Currently, at the request of the task force for scientific, linguistic and educational promotion at the Interministerial Polish Promotion Team abroad, experts are working to develop strategies for teaching and promoting Polish language in the world. Following the adoption of the relevant document by the Interministerial Team for the Promotion of Poland abroad, it will be possible to take new measures to support the teaching of Polish language abroad, both as an alien and inherited in the case of Polish children and Poles living abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, I have allowed myself to focus on the promotion of Polish as a foreign language. We discussed the promotion of Polish language among our fellow countrymen abroad for obvious reasons on numerous occasions at the Senate meetings. You're the protector here. You are the patron saint of our fellow countrymen abroad, so this subject is well known to you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, let me refer to a few comments related to the evaluation of the Polish Academy of Sciences of our websites. The report "Promotion of Polish language on the websites of embassies, consulates and Polish Institutes" draws attention to the need to review the content concerning Polish language published on the pages of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and foreign offices of the Republic of Poland. According to the report, it will be appropriate to create a uniform information on Polish language learning and to prepare a catalogue of websites of specialised institutions that should be promoted. The report shall adopt the same assessment criteria irrespective of the location of the facility. The report contains 46 recommendations, which in part should be considered as customs. In cooperation with the relevant actors, consideration should be given to introducing them to the parties. Other recommended actions are difficult to carry out due to the ongoing process of web changes in connection with the project of harmonisation of public administrations gov. en and technical limitations of the current architecture. Some of the comments and recommendations contained in the report are known to the Ministry. Actions are being taken that could change the state of things. Representatives of the Ministry participate in the work of the task force for scientific, linguistic and educational promotion at the Interministerial Team for the Promotion of Poland abroad. The work is coordinated by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. The team has a group of external experts, whose task is to develop strategies for teaching and promoting Polish language in the world. The adoption of the document by the team will give impetus to new approaches and actions on the promotion of Polish language, including on websites. Regarding the proposed actions, we are planning: a review of Polish content on the websites of foreign institutions of the Republic of Poland; consultation and preparation of content with the authors of the report, as well as with experts from the inter-ministerial team at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education; consideration of the creation of information on Polish language learning centres as a foreign language in Poland and in host countries, in consultation with relevant entities; the creation of information on textbooks and other materials for Polish language learning available on the Internet, in consultation with relevant entities; the preparation of a list of specialist pages devoted to Polish language learning and certification for use on the websites of institutions; the harmonisation of the pages of Polish institutes, which should also work in Polish This is a long-term project. I would like to point out that the Polish Institutes, of course, know this. They are engaged in promotion of Poland, Polish culture, Polish history, also language, and direct it to local audiences. [[But two language versions, Polish and...]] Polish Institutes do not cooperate... i.e. The main recipients are representatives of the local countries. So when we have a Polish institute, e.g. In New York, our partner is... [[Americans. We understand that.]] ...Americans. Poles take care of consulates. Of course, we have accepted the principle that our fellow countrymen abroad are welcome at various cultural events organized by Polish institutes, which does not change the fact that the essence of Polish institutes, the essence of public diplomacy is the influence not on Poles, but on representatives of countries who live in a given country of office of the Polish institute. And maybe one more sentence about the report itself. I would like to point out that in the report, the same approach is made to each Internet portal, without taking into account the specifics of the region or the capacity of the facility. And it is obvious that otherwise communicates about learning Polish language e.g. Kiev, or Abu Dhabi. Such a distinction, this sensitivity in the report unfortunately does not exist. And I would like to make it clear here that this is the weak side of this report by the Polish Language Council. The report indicates that websites of foreign institutions should contain information on Polish language or materials for learning Polish as a foreign language. However, it seems that portals of foreign offices of the Republic of Poland should redirect users to specialised institutions and relevant sources of information, not themselves as a source of information, i.e. should give the possibility to obtain such information on the basis of redirection. Part of the recommendation is right. And that's what I want to make clear. . and after the development of the content, in cooperation with the relevant institutions, may be posted on the websites. As far as specific references are concerned, I invite the senators either to discuss the committee's meeting or to make statements, because it seems to me... I mean, we can, of course, discuss each of these 64 points in detail in the Senate plenary, but... this is the decision of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u51	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs relating to this item on the agenda. [[Can I?]] Of course. [[Thank you.]] Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u52	Minister, it's about this topic that I've been talking about for many years, as I've already said, the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee... These Polish institutes, which you have created here in particular, are Polish institutions. So it seems to me that in Polish... Today, setting up a website and providing basic information is very simple. And in addition to the language of the country in which the facility is located, this institute should... It seems to me that this is also a promotion of Polish language and that all Polish institutions abroad should have... So it's a delicate matter after all. Let me agree, however, that depending on where it is... We have beautiful maps here. I would also like to thank you for this report. Africa, right? Well, we don't have a lot of facilities there. This is changing, and I would also like to thank you, using the Minister's presence, because new and interesting facilities are being created in those countries that are developing. It wasn't seen before, we've reported it many times. Poles should not be ashamed of Polish language, and wherever they are, in Poland or abroad, they should use this language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u53	Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Mr. Marshal! High Izbo!]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u54	Senator! I agree almost everything with your opinion, i.e. The only statement I can't quite agree with is that this task doesn't require work. Because it takes a lot of work. I would like to point out that if the Polish state is preparing a language version or a given website of our institution representing Poland de facto in the world of the Internet, it is an extremely important tool for public diplomacy. It should be done perfectly if we decide... so it's the only polemic. Let us add that the website has this specificity, that it must be constantly updated. An outdated page actually harms the image of a given institution, in this case the image of Poland. So if we decide on another language, it should just be done perfectly. And that's what we're trying to do. Most often, the websites of Polish institutes, i.e. those institutes that affect foreigners and not Poles in a given country, are made of course in the language of the host country, e.g. in Romanian, if it is an institute in Bucharest, in English, which is a universal language at the moment, and increasingly in Polish. I agree with the senator. This is a very good point, and I am glad that it came to the Senate meeting at the meeting of the High House. The parties of Polish institutes should also be in Polish. It is simply a promotion of Polish language abroad. We strive to ensure that all pages of Polish institutes, these 24 Polish institutes, are also in Polish. One of your senators... No, it was also during the previous discussion that the senator said in the previous thread that it was already very strongly signaled in 2013, for the previous governing coalition, for Minister Sikorski. Indeed, there was no proper importance for this matter. We're changing it, and it's progressing now. The following institutes open pages in Polish. We want to ultimately lead to a situation where all institutes will also have a website in Polish.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u55	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I will raise a question which, practically speaking, on every visit you visit here, is addressed, namely the question of learning Polish language in Germany for Polonia. This is not closely related to the subject of this report, but if we want to develop the Polish language, it must also be a set of people who use this language. Minister, the treaty itself is unbalanced. We know that. Because there is a concept of German minority in Poland, and there is no idea of Polish minority in Germany. But technically, the treaty guarantees symmetry here. And probably now for several million Poles in Germany, teaching Polish as a native language is, practically speaking, traceable. Question: What has changed in two years? Because I don't want to talk about what they've done or what the previous governments, the predecessors, have neglected. What has been done in these 2 years when it comes to comparing the position of Poles in Germany with the position of Germans in Poland? Well, of course it's possible to use the carrot method, i.e. And so it was explained to me, as I was once, in the years 2001 and 2005, I was an MEP. How much will we give to the Polish minority... come back: German minorities in Poland, Germany, on the basis of reciprocity, will give the same amount to Poles in Germany. They didn't give anything, and they certainly didn't give anything on a reciprocal basis. We were just hoping and still hoping, in a way, naively that this situation would even up. Can this apply the stick method, which is simply to apply the principle of reciprocity? Because it's been two years, and I don't see any progress. Maybe they're... It is the Minister who will now tell me what progress is made in teaching Polish as a native in the Federal Republic of Germany. Has anything changed in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u57	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u58	Dear Senator, we have taken a number of steps, but of course we will inform you of this in writing, because I am not going to start a separate discussion at the moment. As for the stick method, as you put it here, it's really all in the hands of the High House. It's not like it's the Ministry... that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in particular is responsible for this. I would like to remind you that the German minority in Poland deals with the Ministry of Home Affairs, and that all ministries are involved, among others. Senators, I would also encourage you to work intensively in this area. [[Good.]] As far as our schedule is concerned, we will of course present it to you in writing, because we have taken a number of actions in this area that we can boast about. [[If you don't mind, Minister, with the results...]] Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u59	There you go, Mr... Oh, good. [[One minute to question...]] Everything's... [[But the reports are so calm.]] Take it easy. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. I'm not like a clock... So that anyone can ask a question. Now I'm asking the question... And then the question will be: Senator Jackowski, Senator Anders, Senator Gogacz and Senator Żaryn. That's the list. So don't worry, everyone's booked. Minister, are there also those who have completed their studies in Poland who have studied and returned to their countries? There are such very significant groups. I think that this is the group with which we should keep in touch and which is certainly willing to interact with Polish culture, science and I think that also with Polish language, although here... I wouldn't overreact... I would like to remind you that in the times of the Polish People's Republic there were many thousands of students from Vietnam, also from Arab countries, e.g. from Algeria, Libya, where there is confusion at the moment, as well as from smaller countries... I remember that in the 1950s the Albanians also studied here. And now students from Qatar are studying here, from Kuwait, several hundred students are studying at the Naval Academy in Gdynia. There are also groups of Arabic students from other countries, such as Oman, etc. And they're going back to their countries. These are studies in English, at the time of the Polish People's Republic were in Polish. Do the Ministry and embassies have an active policy in this area to keep these people in touch with Polish culture? I think that it is also worth doing this from the point of view of Polish interests, because these people, even in Vietnam, have reached quite a high level at the moment when it comes to administration, business, in other countries, I think, this is what it looks like. So is there an active activity in this area? Is there an idea? Are they included in those plans you were talking about, the Ministry's plans?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Definitely. To those countries that you rightly mentioned, I would add African countries, from which also young people came to study, and today representatives of elites. The countries that you listed as marshals, or African countries are those where graduates of Polish universities are elites today, and of course these people are, in a good sense, used to build cooperation between Poland and the country. We have the right contacts. Unfortunately, it's not like that. universities transfer contacts to graduates. It is rather the fruit of many years of relationships built, clearly, well, in response to cultural offers, to the work of our institutions... But such bases in every country of Polish friends exist and these people are in many cases priceless.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u61	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u62	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to widen this question a little bit more than that. Namely, are the work on... Because we have Polish educational points now, it's something called what used to be Polish schools and what's in teachers' environments outside Poland... Well, in previous years the concept of Polish education outside Poland has been changed. Are there any legislative work on this subject to bring back, however... Because the name of the school is the name of the school. Some kind of consult or how do you... I can't remember exactly what it's called right now, but it's a different rank of this phenomenon. Why would I ask that? Because there is a whole range of people, not necessarily Poles from origin or Polish roots, but people who want to learn Polish. This phenomenon occurs e.g. in Ukraine, where for personal development and greater attractiveness on the labour market people also learn Polish because they are very useful when they come to Poland. Is there any work, any analysis of this phenomenon, and is there an assessment of these Polish consultative points? Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Thank you very much...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u63	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u64	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, the question is absolutely justified. Please note that the name in some sense is already formatting the activity. We want to build an estimate of Polish language learning abroad. Indeed, the name of the school consultative point, I can say officially as a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is not very fortunate and we have long heard the demands of Polish environments to change that name. We fully join these demands as a ministry. But school consultative points are under the care of the Ministry of National Education. I know that Minister Zalewska, who has talked about this many times, has taken action to change that name. We are very happy about this, and we hope that this will be changed soon. I know the Minister wants it very, very much. School consultation points are among the three tools for learning Polish for children abroad. This is the main network, it seems, 64 units, subject to the so-called. ORPEG, Ministry of National Education, and these are teachers working with the Ministry of National Education, officially issuing school IDs, school certificates, carrying out a program mainly in the field of Polish language learning, history, knowledge about society or Polish geography. In addition, we have the largest network of social schools. These are social schools on Saturdays, usually classes are held on Saturdays, hence such a common name Saturday schools. Classes often also take place on Sundays. Here it should be mentioned that the role of the Catholic Church's communities abroad, Polish pastors, around which Polish children also gather who want to learn Polish. In the European Union, we also have a system of education under Directive 77/486. This European provision gives the opportunity, at the appropriate gathering of interested children, to learn Polish within the framework of the education system in a given European country. These are the three basic tools. We as a Polish country have the biggest, almost 100 percent, impact on the program and activities of these unfortunate The poor in terms of naming and not in terms of activity School consultative points. We managed to make a big change, very expected, unprecedented after 1989, namely at the initiative of President Andrzej Duda we adopted the law on Polish school cards, speaking in simplification, thanks to which every Polish student, every student in the Polish school Whether in an ORPEG school or in a social school or in an educational process under Directive 77/486 • receives a school card from the Polish State. The teacher working in these 3 forms also receives a school card. It is a card, a document of the Republic of Poland, which allows access to all privileges, almost the same as the student who learns at the Polish school in Poland. I mean discounts on rail trips, public transport, entrances to museums, national parks, etc. It's about all the elements that... When our Polish children arrive in the country of fathers, e.g. To visit their grandparents, they will have access to all these privileges. This is certainly helpful because we know what the material situation of their retired grandparents is sometimes. Dear people, what is the main point of this law? This is a document showing that the Polish state is interested and appreciated in the education of Polish children abroad. This is a document with a symbolic dimension. We show that even 3 hours a week of this science are noticed by the Polish state, by Poland. Poland for such children First of all, it's a gesture towards parents. It gives a document with Polish emblem, a document belonging to the community of Polish children learning all over the world. We have signals from our fellow countrymen abroad that this initiative has been well received. This is an important gesture especially for pupils and parents of social schools, because schools within school consultative centres, as part of the activities of the Ministry of National Education and ORPEG, received these cards. This is about support, respect for the great effort of teaching children in social schools. What's the effort? It is worth mentioning here in the High House. This is an effort worthy of the utmost respect. As deputy minister of Polish affairs, I met on my way when my parents sent their children to Polish schools, to social schools and every Saturday they carried them. 40 km one way, 100 km one way The senator has similar experiences. For 3 hours, they waited 3 hours and returned 40 or 100 km. This is an effort inspired by patriotism and an effort worthy of absolute recognition from the Polish state. Therefore, we carry out this recognition also in a material, concrete way, in the form of a school card, a document. This is very important to us and we are very pleased with this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u65	Thank you, Minister. Senator Anna Maria Anders. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u66	Minister! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to some things maybe as a person born abroad, because I actually spoke Polish at home, but I was one of those people who went to such a Polish school, etc., etc. Of course, education, culture, talking about children, about patriotism is one thing. But the society that I know best now is an American society, and in my opinion we must give people a reason to learn Polish. So that it's not just a matter of learning a language, it's also... Everyone knows how much I support the economic relations between Poland and the United States. There are people who are Polish, but do not speak Polish, businessmen who come to Poland or start working with some Polish company, and then this desire to learn Polish comes. We can teach Polish children in the United States of America our language, but if there is not this continuation, the continuation, it will be, say, a language almost dead, which is only to care for culture, for history, etc. Of course, it's very important, I'm a huge patriot, but I think we need to move on. And this is a remark not only addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this is a remark to our government, to everyone: we must focus on making this language live, so that it is a modern language that can be used all over the world. It's actually not a question, it's a remark on my part.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u67	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u68	If you don't mind, I'd refer to the senator's statement. Senator, first of all, I'd like to say If you'll excuse me, this may not be entirely appropriate. That we, working with Polonia, often recall your example as an example of a Polish born abroad, which thanks to the fact that your father was a patriot, also your mother, and made sure that you speak Polish, that you grew up in Polish culture, is today a senator of the Republic of Poland. Right? This is an example for our fellow countrymen. We are very, very proud of you and Poles abroad are very proud of you too. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] So that is a really great example, which we often give, we say: see, Anna Maria Anders was born abroad, today she is a senator of the Republic of Poland, a minister in the Polish government. This is very important. There are some very important elements here that I would like to talk about. Dear Sirs, there are actually several tools that are necessary for Polishness to survive in the next generation abroad. First of all, the absolute task of every Pole abroad, if of course Polishness is important to him... Before I begin to discuss in detail, I will also point out that when we are abroad, we must ask ourselves whether Polishness is important to me. For many of us, for most of us, I think, and in this House, and following our deliberations today, Polishness is important. We are interested in Poland, feel responsible for Poland and are patriots, but that does not mean that it is important to everyone. There are people for whom only comfortable life and consumption are important, nothing more. Right? There are people like that. Maybe we spend less time with them, maybe it's not a way of thinking that's visible in our environments, but there are people like that. So first of all, it must be assumed that Polishness plays an important role in my life, that it is something important, that it is something unimportant to me when I am abroad, and that I am not just focusing on money and a comfortable life, but that there is something even more important in my life. And if we assume something like this, let's ask what we should do to be a good patriot abroad to pass on Poland to the next generation. The key to implementing patriotism abroad is to ensure that our children, our grandchildren, are in contact with Polishness. This is the first thing, absolutely. The senator was right to say that. First of all, it is important to talk to your own child in Polish. I've often met with such situations in my Polish work... This especially concerned this Polonia, the emigration that left suddenly, e.g. This famous emigration of the 1980s, which was separated from its roots and hit a completely alien environment. Today, when we're going abroad I mean, even this post-accession emigration, we choose the country we want to go to, we choose it even in a language context. Hence the popularity of Great Britain, hence the popularity of Ireland, as well as Scandinavian countries, where English is also popular. Later, at least as far as Scandinavian countries are concerned, as part of our work, as part of our stay abroad, we get to know the local language, but English can be handled perfectly. The emigration of the 1980s took place in such a way that suddenly it was pulled out of the house of a given citizen of the Polish People's Republic and it was sent to a country where he was completely unable to cope, because he was not prepared for it. He only knew Russian from school. The Russian language was widely taught at the time. And he's got a hit, for example. to the Netherlands. What did it do? This caused a very difficult situation of these Poles, caused a number of unpleasant situations, caused a number of complexes, causing that the person could not work in the profession. We know many examples of people with intelligent education who had to take up the simplest professions and were absolutely unable to return to the world of intelligence. Those people had a clear trauma. At a time when children appeared, as all loving parents wanted to protect them from these dramatic, unpleasant situations, and in a special way they insisted on learning the language that was dominant in the country, so that the children would not go through the hell that their parents were going through. And it was a mistake, a terrible mistake. Some of the people from that emigration made it because these children, born already in emigration, never had problems communicating in the local language. The power of socialization, the power of local education, the power of growing up among peers in a country immediately causes them to speak without the slightest accent and will never have problems with a given language. And on the assumption that we only care about local language, we simply lose Polish language. Many times during my work These are dozens or hundreds of examples. I met young people, but already adults who discovered their Polishness, their Polish roots, and did not speak Polish. As a child, they did not have the opportunity to learn the language, and they regret it very much. Sometimes they even resent their parents for not teaching them Polish as a child. Because at the age of 30, you can learn the language from zero, of course, if someone is very talented and determined, but really describing the situation, let's admit that this is almost impossible. I also met a lot of young people or even adults who speak Polish and whose education in Polish was taken care of by their parents as a child. I have not met one person who regrets that she was forced to learn Polish as a child. I haven't met one of them. That's why it's very important to watch. I'm going back to my example of immigration. In turn, I know examples of people conscious of a certain educational process, socialization, language challenges, which from the very beginning talked consistently with children in Polish. And such children, even up to the age of 5 years, even though they were born in a foreign country, spoke almost only Polish, then went to kindergarten, to school and instantly, in a few months, began to speak perfection in the local language. The result was that without much effort such a child spoke perfection both in the local language and in the Polish language. So I encourage this attitude. So if we want to transfer Polishness, if we are patriots in the country, then the first thing is: to talk consistently with the child in the Polish language. The second point we are calling for is, of course, the use of education abroad. The offer is very wide. Once again, it is about school consultative points, social schools or the implementation of European legislation. As for the other incentives that Senator Anders was talking about, beyond basic patriotism... Let us not be afraid of this word, we are Poles, it is important for us, so we try to make our children Polish too, have Polish roots, are aware of them, so that Polishness does not end on our generation, so that our children and grandchildren can testify about Polishness, be ambassadors of Poland, be pro-Polish lobbyists, defenders of the good name of Poland, etc., I mean all these elements that we care about in cooperation with emigration. So it doesn't end with us, it ends with our kids, our grandchildren. That's the most important thing. And when it comes to other incentives, for example. And I'm very clear about that. Many of our compatriots abroad because they speak Polish, have an advantage on the labour market. Imagine the situation: two 25-year-old job candidates come to a potential employer, have completed similar studies, one knows the local language, obviously, because it is his basic language and the other knows the English perfect language, and the other knows the local language. 'Cause he grew up in this country. He speaks English and speaks Polish. Which candidate will the employer choose if the studies and professional experience are similar? The one with the extra tongue, of course. I will also mention that many companies, whether from Western Europe, whether from across the Atlantic Ocean or from the East, are planning to invest in Poland, are planning to invest in Central Europe. Knowledge of Polish language is a huge advantage on the market. Finally, let us remember that Polish is also interested and our fellow countrymen in the East, and finally residents of the countries of the former Soviet Union, also because it is an important tool in the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say one more sentence, very, very important. We have already mentioned 2.5 million, the professor has even talked about 3 million Poles who are representatives of post-accession emigration who left our country after 2004, really shortly after the opening of specific labour markets. Dear Sirs, learning Polish by the children of these people is either to be or not to be, when it comes to the concept of their coming to Poland, to return to Poland. If such people do not teach their children Polish, then we have a guarantee that they will never return to Poland. We have a guarantee. If we want to maintain the chance to return these people, we need to ensure proper education in the field of Polish language. Hence the rich network of schools in the UK, hence as many as 5 schools, let's call it state, i.e. school consultative points, in tiny Ireland. It's not random. This is a game. It is also about giving our fellow countrymen the opportunity to choose their return. If they do not educate children in Polish, they will not lead to the situation that these children will feel safe in Polish... It's gonna be taking away their choice of return. Then we'll have a guarantee that they won't come back to us. If we are talking about learning Polish abroad, then I note that this is a game of several hundred thousand of our countrymen. I don't want to start a separate story right now, saying that the psychological barrier to coming back is five years, that if someone's more than five years old, it's gonna be very difficult for him to come back... The chance to return to those who have left is a few dozen percent, we estimate that 20%. Some of them, unfortunately, have already lost their lives for five years, but we must fight for them. It is a duty of the Polish State, it is a strategic obligation of the Polish State. Hence this promotion of Polish language. This is not the only reason why they would come back, that the children would be... But lack of knowledge of Polish is a guarantee that they will not come back. So we're staying in the game about their return.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u69	Thank you, Minister. Now Senator Stanisław Gogacz is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u70	Minister, there are some, I don't know how many of them there are so-called. centers of culture and Polish language as individuals included in the structure of universities abroad. I was invited to one of these centers, and I know pretty much what it looks like. This center does not fall under the faculty, it is independent of the faculty, and at the same time it is included in the structure of the university. In higher education structures abroad there are not always departments, there are different units there. It seems that having such an entity within the structure of a university, which is a very important institution in every country... The fact itself is an expression of some appreciation, respect for culture, for Polish language. That's definitely a big plus. Therefore, my question is whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sees potential in this direction in terms of promoting Polish culture and language. Are new entities included in the structure of universities abroad?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u71	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u72	Thank you very much. Of course, yes, we see this potential. I will technically point out that the Ministry of Science and Higher Education is dealing with this kind of matter. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course, our institutions support the establishment of such centres. Let's remember, once again, I'll stress this. That teaching the Polish language abroad has 2 dimensions: the dimension, so to speak, the care of Polish people, the maintenance of Polishness in this and the next generations of Poles abroad, and the promotional dimension. We show Polish as something attractive for foreigners, encourage foreigners to choose Polish, Polish culture, simply choose Poland as a place even for your professional development or for the pursuit of a hobby, which is beneficial because we make friends. This is how other institutions work, teaching institutions, e.g. French or Spanish. Italian learning is often chosen by people who are not Italians, but are simply fascinated by this beautiful and rich, attractive culture. We're determined to cooperate. That's a problem... If you don't mind, I'll be a little more specific. The problem is also that the promotion of Polish language abroad is probably done by 7 institutions. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself there are separate units to promote Polish language for compatriots and to promote Polish language as a foreign language. In addition, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. There are many units here, which is why we have decided, as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have decided to create a special team that brings together representatives of these departments, whether at the level of vice-ministers or at the level of department directors, in order to coordinate these activities just a little bit, even a little bit. If you as High House wish, we may even have a joint meeting of several Senate committees one day, where we could discuss this team more fully and listen to your comments and questions as well. That would be very valuable, because this team hasn't been there before, we're happy with it. We would also like to talk about the progress of the work, the problems, and the legislative problems that we have. A State as a House of law could help us if you considered it appropriate. This is a very difficult issue. There are several resorts and coordinating the work of these resorts is sometimes difficult, although in the case of Polish language we see a lot of good will. But we all know that, and this is not a hint to the current government, because it basically applies to all governments after 1989, that Poland is a resort and sometimes it makes work very difficult. Actually, I don't have any reason to complain in particular here, because I emphasize that there is a lot of goodwill, but it is generally so.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u73	Thank you, Minister. And now Mr. Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u74	Thank you very much. As for this last statement, I think that the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Emigration will propose... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Great.]] ...this kind of meeting. But now the questions. Namely, I would like to ask you about statistics. It's been two years since the current government has worked, and it's time to start balancing the effects. First question. As far as I know, at the turn of 2015 and 2016 in Polish schools, these 3 types of Polish schools, about which the Minister said, were about 10% , maybe up to 15% children of all children who were born and lived outside Poland. I am thinking of Western emigration, so that it is clear, not Poles in the East. If these statistics are maintained at the same level, that is about 15% all those whom we would like to include in Polish teaching, teaching Polish language, Polish culture, etc., this is the question: what mechanisms should be introduced that would increase the scope of the impact? I'm sure the ID was a very important aspect. Well, I'm still trying to figure out how to use it. Internet, however, to reach deeper into these Polish communities, so that these children can also learn Polish in a different mode, not just one that involves commuting these 100 or 200 km. So this is one request. For statistics on the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this field. The second question also relates in a sense to the results, namely what the Minister was talking about, answering the question of Senator Gogach. This is the second aspect of the presence of Polish as a foreign language, especially in universities, universities, where the elite of a given nation and society is formed. Whether it's American or British universities or anywhere else. We very much want the Western world elite to be interested in Poland as well. This is, of course, our priority, because if the intelligence of these countries, nations are interested in recognizing Polish culture, we will all benefit from it. The question is, what tools do we have? This is e.g. sharing scientific Polish-language literature, which would reach selected scientific institutions of the Western world via the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Has there already been any permanent mechanism for cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Higher Education not only to try to create cathedrals of Polish language, but also to further monitor their work, e.g. by sending beautiful literature and scientific literature to university libraries? There's a whole set of activities that could be headed that way. The third question, which deviates from the issue of Polish language in the reporting aspect. This is an ongoing, very important issue. Namely the Ministry of National Education provides That's what the Minister said. That the amendment of the education law in Ukraine will not touch the issue of teaching Polish language to the Polish minority there, i.e. Poles, as well as those who would like to learn Polish language. As we know, Hungary and Romania have different views on this issue with regard to the Hungarian and Romanian minorities. Are we specially treated by Ukraine? The MEN and the Foreign Ministry are silent on this matter. Do we really have reason to believe that the Ukrainian State will not change the conditions for training Poles in that area through the educational law? Unfortunately, every response has negative consequences here. Hungary and Romania have the same right as Poland to teach their minorities there according to their ambitions. We are within the same structure, the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u75	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! About the promotion... Maybe I'll start by talking about kids going to school. Of course, there are many questions about the cause. There are situations like this... I meet with my fellow countrymen abroad, who say that within a radius of 200 km there is no Polish school. There are situations. Hence the work of the Ministry of National Education on Internet teaching, on textbooks enabling home learning. A lot of people abroad just don't want to learn Polish. They live in London, they have a wide range of offers, but they don't want to do it because they have more important things. Polishness abroad is not mandatory. We need to make a choice here and be consistent in what we have chosen. The choice of being a Pole, the maintenance of Polishness does not relate solely to profits. This is the quintessence of patriotism with a certain approach to responsibilities. One of the fathers of our independence said: I am Polish, so I have Polish responsibilities. That's what it looks like. It's a lot more complicated than that. On the one hand, of course, we feel obliged We and colleagues from the Ministry of National Education allow to teach Polish to all those who would like to live abroad... If someone doesn't want it, if someone has completely different priorities, then unfortunately, there's nothing we can do here. The case concerns children. As a Polish country, we can create offers, but parents' responsibility for Polishness is crucial here. The choice of Polishness will always involve additional work and difficulty. Unfortunately, it always will be. If we send a child to learn Polish, it means that we will have to take them there. That's the question of priorities in life. When it comes to promoting Polishness at universities, it is very complicated because on the one hand we have a number of successes I have given you examples of several openings, whether in China, whether in the East, related to higher education, on the other hand, there are also failures, as to what needs to be said. True, these are the failures of the previous government, but with caution Let me give you this example. The most spectacular failure in the field of public diplomacy is the Polish Cathedral at Columbia University in New York. It was a cathedral formed a few years ago, even during the time of Minister Sikorski. This is an institution that cost the Polish state a few million dollars to open this cathedral. [[That has nothing to do with it.]] Besides... I answer the question precisely, precisely, because there was a question about promoting Poland at the level of higher education. Senator Fedorovich is nervous... [[Minister...]] That's right, because it's pretty embarrassing. [[I'm never nervous. But that has nothing to do with it.]] [[Mr. Senator Fedorovich, please take your seat and listen calmly. The Minister has the right to answer. You're welcome, Minister.]] Thank you very much. It cost us a few million dollars as a Polish country and as a Polish community, which raised money for it. The enthusiasm was pretty intense. The Polish cathedral, which will promote Poland, will be created, will defy Polish history. The effect was that Columbia University took the money, created the cathedral, and the decision of the inner university appointed the management of this cathedral, set the program, the course of teaching in this cathedral. It is at the moment an institution which in almost 100 percent carries out the pedagogy of shame. He mainly deals with the subject of the Holocaust, and especially the alleged wines of Poles within this Holocaust. Fair enough, I'll add objectively. Perhaps less as a Polish person, more as a public diplomacy person, promotion of historical truth, promotion of information about Poland If we were to get such a cathedral free of charge, thus functioning... It would be beneficial for the Polish state, beneficial for the truth of objective historical truth, for the Polish public diplomacy, if there were no such cathedral. It's better not to be there than to be in such a form, because sometimes it's just in a way that's not in line with the facts, bending historical facts is a false story there. Poland, even in such a dimension, that individual negative examples appear as part of a certain standard. Well, we all know these mechanisms. So you have to be very careful. Universities are very often autonomous. It is also a question of negotiations, because those willing to create a Polish cathedral, to take money for opening a Polish cathedral are many scientific institutions, but it is the responsibility of the Polish state and the interest of the Polish state that the subsequent implementation of the work of a given institution be beneficial from the point of view of historical truth about our fates. Shows Now it's an abstract example. The fact that the Polish taxpayer's money is a result of the film does not make much sense when it comes to pursuing historical truth. As far as libraries are concerned, of course we are currently preparing a whole program of delivering world literature related to Polish history, even the truth about Polish history, to libraries of leading universities. As far as Ukraine is concerned, I do not want to speak up yet. Next week, we will report this matter to Parliament at the meeting of one of the committees. Yesterday, there was a call from the Minister... Excuse me, the day before yesterday there were talks by Minister Zalewska in Ukraine on this matter. As Minister for Constitutional Affairs, the Minister has personally engaged in this matter. It's very complicated. Let us remember that we are in a different situation than even Hungarians, because we have only 4 Polish schools in Ukraine as Poland, and Hungarians basically have a whole system of education, dozens of schools with a full teaching profile in Hungarian. We already have a significant percentage of teaching in Ukrainian. That's why this situation is completely different. This does not change the fact that the matter is very important to us, as even the visit of the Constitutional Minister would bear witness in this matter. In no case do we close the case, we will present it after the first effects of our talks next week.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u77	Thank you, Minister. No more questions. [[Senator Pekkis.]] Oh, Mr. Senator Pekkis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u78	I have two questions. First question. In view of your departure from the European Union of Great Britain, do you see the possibility that English will no longer be so universal and will no longer be imposed on us as this basic language in international communication? Second question. It is true that we have only 4 Polish schools in Ukraine, but we have plenty of centres that operate with little support from the state, there is no mention of millions of dollars. I was in a place like this in Kharkov. There he literally learns in several rooms, in such tiny rooms more than 400 people in continuous mode. Mostly they are not Poles, mostly they are seeking the Polish Charter only for mercantile reasons. But for us this is a great opportunity, because they, while learning the language of our culture, come here, come back and are not nationalistically oriented to Poland, because they just were, they saw. Isn't it possible, through learning the Polish language, to vent a certain existing one, because there is no doubt about it, the hostility of these two nards, our nations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u79	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u80	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I wouldn't talk about hostility between our nations. Of course, there are groups with extreme views, but relative relations between our countries are not so bad at all. I'm not talking about the Bander environment, which I'm making a clear negative assessment of. This is a disgraceful environment. But in general, relations between our countries are not bad. Poland was e.g. the first country in the world, Dear State, which recognised the independence of Ukraine. So this isn't... I'd consider our relationship a good one. As far as the promotion of Polish language is concerned, we are aware that at the moment in Ukraine is I do not know whether it is appropriate to define the fashion for learning Polish language that there has been an explosion of interest in learning Polish language, also, and perhaps especially among Ukrainians of Ukrainian origin, not Polish but Ukrainian. Good. Yeah, that's good, because language builds bridges, builds relationships. As the senator rightly said, people who visit Poland have a clear good opinion about Poland and it builds friendship between people, cooperation in the social dimension, but also economic dimension. We are very pleased that even last year we managed to open an air link, a regular air link between Polish Airlines and Kharkov. Eastern Ukraine is very important to us when it comes to building contacts, building relations, including economic relations. We are glad that there really are many people interested in Polish. The more people learn Polish language, Polish culture, tradition, the more people will be involved in building Polish-Ukrainian friendship. So this is definitely positive for us. [[Thank you, Minister.]] If you don't mind, it's still... [[One more thing. Please.]] Of course, English will still be a universal language, we have no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u81	Thank you. I don't see any more questions to be asked. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Thank you kindly.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Professor! High Izbo! Because for the last six years as boss...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I'd like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to give a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u82	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. So one more time... I'd like to thank you, Professor. Six years I've been receiving this report as head of the Parliament, and now the Senate committee. Thanks to this report, an interesting debate is taking place at the meetings of our committee. I am pleased that there was such a serious discussion in the plenary room about the value and beauty of Polish language. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If Senator Rulewski doesn't bother me, I will end my words with words of the great Polish poet writing in the country, Kazimierz Wierzyński, who I repeat to myself in difficult times. They sound like this. You have to read it once, You have to read it twice, You have to read for years: Then the bird will come. ♪ To your hand ♪ He won't be afraid. He'll be tamed. A bird that's right in front of you now. Ulata. You have to write once, You have to write twice, You have to write for years: ♪ Till the bird tells you ♪ The end of your loneliness, He will lift you over the waters From the blind nights and the storms, Then trust him, Trust yourself, Start Start The world. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u83	Thank you, Senator. I still have a chance to speak. Professor, I would like to thank you for a very comprehensive and excellent report. Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answers to your questions. But first, what seemed controversial to me. I don't think state authority is there to judge movies. If "Pokołos" was a film worse in artistic terms... "Ida" was certainly a success and Polish film, and Polish film. Returning to the essential part, to the information, to the report, I would like to say that the main problem in this very important activity of the Polish government, the Senate, as regards the promotion of Poland, Polish education, as well as the possibility of training in Polish foreign languages who would like for various reasons, whether for sympathy or for mercantile reasons, because they want to come here to work... Regardless of these reasons, the desire to learn Polish is a good thing and we should support it. The biggest problem I've ever seen. In particular, it's not that big of a deal, It's so-called. Polish resort. It's just... You've seen it before. I've seen it before. This issue is divided into several resorts and I must say that this cooperation... Well, you say it's going well right now, but I think it's going well. It's a good thing a team was made. It would be better if it were a team with the Prime Minister, because of the rank, position and possibility of some coordination of actions. Right? That's the basic thing. I believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is predisposed to take over this activity because it is an activity outside the borders of the country. The Ministry of Culture doesn't have that possibility, the Ministry of Education doesn't have that possibility either, because there are no diplomatic offices of its own. And that's what's causing... This Ministry Poland causes a clear lack of coordination. So education, these schools, school consultative points, the Ministry of Education. Cultural centres The Ministry of Foreign Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Chairs of Polish language The Ministry of Science and Higher Education. In my view, these initiatives and activities should be subject to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If this is not the case, we cannot overcome this lack of coordination. You are right to say that when it comes to school consultative points, Minister Zalewska will go, there will be some conversations, etc. Yeah, but you can't control it, right? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no influence on what these conversations look like, what direction to go. In addition, these are complementary activities. And you can imagine... You can imagine that foreigners will learn the language at these school consultative points. Of course, they are not young people, they are not Poles, but they are specialized centres. And vice versa. After all, Polish language lessons for minorities, for our compatriots can also take place in cultural centres, i.e. where there are no school consultative points. But there's this departmental division, and every resort is watching its own. I understand that there is a question of budget, budget transfers, etc. However, what you said, what you said, I saw much earlier. And unfortunately, no one can fight it. I will remind you of the situation that she has been in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for many years or in embassies. It is about business advisers who were under the responsibility of the Minister of Economy and not the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Those sales reps were hanging around the embassies somewhere. And either they did what the ambassador pointed out, or if they had strong support in their ministry, then the ambassador couldn't do anything, he was just their formal boss, not their substantive one. It seems to have disappeared somehow, although I don't know if it's fully integrated. Yeah, but that's not the subject of this point. However, this shows that many, many years, actually 20 years went on before it changed, it would seem to be a clear situation. Because if there's an embassy attorney in diplomacy, then the ambassador has to run and manage it. Let's get back to the subject. So I think that it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that should oversee all areas of activity that go beyond borders, whether it concerns culture, education or science. And that's where I'd like to end it. I know that the Minister... I don't want you to talk about it, because you're kind of a party to this discussion, and I'm not a party, I've just been watching it, and as a deputy in the department of home affairs and administration, and as a marshal of the Senate. I'm watching what it looks like, also now, as a vice marshal, so I see a necessity. I'm closing... [[Talking in the O.R.]] There's no more votes... [[There it is, there it is.]] Has anyone checked in? Well, then I'm gonna have to call a break and then after a break... [[Jackie, back off.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...because we have an exhibition at 12:00. I'm gonna have to call a break right now. [[Voice from the room: So he's quitting.]] [[Voice from the room: Not necessarily.]] [[Voice from the room: I think you can finish the point.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're resigning, aren't you? Good. The discussion is closed. I'm closing the discussion, but that's not all. Would the President of the Polish Language Council, Professor Andrzej Markowski, or Mr Jan Dziedziczak, Deputy Minister, like to speak? [[President of the Polish Language Council Andrzej Markowski: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Polish Language Council, Professor Andrzej Markowski, for presenting the report to the Senate. I would also like to thank Mr Jan Dziedziczak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for his participation in the debate. I state that the Senate took note of the report on the state of protection of Polish language for the years 2014 to 2015. I'm about to announce a recess until 12:30. After the break we go to the thirteenth point, i.e. the resolution on the anniversary concerning Armenians in Poland... And after that, there'll be a vote, right? Isn't there going to be a vote? [[Voice from the room: It will be.]] After that, we'll have a vote. Dismissed until 12:30. Welcome to the exhibition. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 01 to 12 minutes 35]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u84	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let's resume the session. We begin to consider item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 650th anniversary of giving the Armenians the first privilege in Poland. High Izbo, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Armenia, Mr Ara Babloyan, together with his accompanying delegation, will be present in the hearing. [[Applause]] Mr Edgar Ghazaryan, Ambassador of the Republic of Armenia to the Republic of Poland, is also with us. [[Applause]] I remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by Senator Jan Żaryn. The project is included in print No 615, and the report is published in print No 615 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u85	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It's very nice to meet you. I would like to present to you with great satisfaction the report of the Legislative Commission, which at its meeting on 18 October this year. considered at first reading the draft resolution presented by me on the 650th anniversary of giving the Armenians the first privilege in Poland. In the course of a very good discussion, amendments were introduced, which made the text much better. I'll tell you right away that the resolution I'm about to read is extremely long for senate resolutions. We agreed that this should be the case, because it is a unique opportunity for the 650th anniversary of Armenian presence in Poland. This resolution is a lesson in history and is of particular importance from an educational point of view. Such a person, among others. is the role of the Senate so that we can raise the contemporary generations of Poles in an extremely rich Polish heritage by means of a word, resolution. And in Polish heritage there is a place for Polish Armenians, great patriots, who were often in the pantheon of our most outstanding heroes. And that's why this resolution is long. I hope that for us, for the senators, some of its fragments will be a lesson in history. I invite you to take a short history lesson. Resolution on the 650th anniversary of giving the Armenians the first privilege in Poland. On 20 January 1367 King Kazimierz in Lviv The great confirmed in a separate document the creation of the diocese of the Armenian Church in the Kingdom of Poland and pointed to his Bishop Grzegorz the city of Lviv as a place of residence. The acquisition of the first collective privilege in the new homeland began the history of Polish Armenians who co-create Poland already in the seventh century. Such a distinguished anniversary is an important symbol not only for Armenians and Poles of Armenian origin, but also for the whole Republic. The presence of Armenians in Polish society was and remains significant, it requires reminder and appreciation. They are one of the oldest minorities who have chosen Poland for a safe place of refuge, they have received a hospitable reception here, working conditions and prosperity. Since the 14th century, they have co-shaped its cultural landscape in many dimensions. They became providers of practical knowledge about oriental empires, experts in their languages and policies for the Polish state. From the end of the 17th century also began to appear in the mainstream of intellectual, literary and religious life, as writers, preachers, medics, lawyers, theologians, professors of the Krakow and Zamość Academy. In the 18th century, we see them among pioneers of new areas of economic life, bankers and manufacturers. Some of them became involved in the reform work of the Republic of Poland. Here you must first mention Fr. Grzegorz Piramowicz, co-founder of the National Education Commission. In the 19th and 20th centuries they were an important part of the two most active layers of Polish society: the landownership and intelligence. They co-shaped the history of the south-eastern borders, strengthening the social potential of Polishness in this region. They played an important role in political life: an ironist of independence, a settlement policy with Austria in Galicia. But in the good sense of the word The reconstruction of Poland after the cataclysms of partitions, wars and communism. Polish local government officials, mayors and presidents of Lviv, Cracow, Warsaw, Lublin, Kamienica Podolski and Czerniowiec came out of their group. The names of deputies, Members and Senators of the Gente Armeni natione Poloni, have been recorded in the history of the parliamentarianism of the Duchy of Warsaw and the Congressional Kingdom of Poland, in the National Seyms of Galicia and Bukowi, the Austrian Council of State and the Russian State Duma, and finally in the Seym and Senate of the Reborn Republic. The list of authors of Polish Armenian culture is long, including as outstanding as Juliusz Słowacki's Wieś. Polish invention and science also owe them much, in this field the figure of Ignacy Łukasiewicz, the inventor of the oil lamp, cannot be forgotten. Many Armenians and many Polish Armenians fought for Poland's freedom. The symbol of their heroism is lieutenant colonel Walerian Tumanowicz, soldier of Polish Legions, officer of the Polish Army, the Polish Army's Armed Fighting Union, the Organization of the Polish Army, and the Association of Freedom and Independence, sentenced to death by Stalin's court, decorated this year with the Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland by the President of the Republic of Poland. At the same time, the Armenians cultivated their own cultural heritage, whose monuments have still been preserved in the form of literature in four languages: Armenian, Kipchatsky, Polish and Latin. This heritage has its outstanding representatives, whose achievements are not meaningless also for Armenian culture. In the Second Republic under the care of the last Armenian archbishop, Fr. Józef Teodorowicz, great preacher and Polish patriot, the Armenian ethnic renaissance took place, new organizations were created, the press was born, scientific research was undertaken, the museum was planned. The war cut through those plans. The Armenian Diaspora in Poland, although never numerous, has released many generations of merchants, craftsmen, farmers, priests, nuns and monks, landowners, intelligentsians, soldiers, artists, intellectuals and scholars. In the veins of many Poles flows the blood of Armenian ancestors. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, summing up the annual celebrations of the presence of Armenians in Polish lands, congratulates them on their achievements, thanks for their contribution to Polish culture and creative presence in our history and wishes to continue the achievements of their ancestors in their common homeland, for their sake and for their well-being. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the content of this resolution will not only be adopted by us here in the Senate, but also, as I said, will become a resolution that will live on, because the Armenian community also lives on in Poland, and it would be good for both it and Poles to be friends with us Armenia, so that all of these entities know how many of us are connected with Armenians in Poland in history and how many are connected today and, of course, how much we hope will be connected, can be said forever. That's the way it's supposed to be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u86	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant. I remind you that the applicant is also Senator Jan Żaryn. Do any of you senators want to ask a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Will any of you please speak? Senator Bogdan Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr. Ambassador! Ladies and gentlemen! There are things that are made of political interest, and there are things that are made of heart. And I don't think I'm going to abuse the trust of my political community, a group of Senators of the Civic Platform, if I say that we wholeheartedly support this resolution, because of a lot of things in the past and in the past. She talks a lot about history. And now we're connected to the Armenians. This resolution, if it were shorter, would, of course, be better, but it has an important educational aspect, because it shows how these links between Armenians and Poles developed over the centuries and what a great contribution of the Armenian people, through its emissaries on Polish soil, into Polish national culture. But I would also like to say a word about what's going on today and what's going to happen in the future. We would very much like the Armenians to be able to participate in European cooperation, as the Ukrainians and Moldovans participate. We were all heart and intellect for Armenia to participate in the Eastern Partnership. You couldn't, it's a choice, a sovereign choice of Armenia. But I also know that there are very strong tendencies and expectations in Eryvana that we will be close with you at least in the field of adapting your right to European law, the various institutions to the European institutions. And this is extremely important, because this is the step forward that Armenia is taking towards a united Europe and which a united Europe should do in relation to Armenia. And I hope that, as it was years ago, the Polish authorities will now be ambassador to Armenia and Armenian people in a united Europe. Because you belong in a united Europe, as it was centuries ago, when the kingdom of Armenia was one of the most European manor houses in the history of the Middle Ages. Your place is in Europe and this place in Europe we support and we believe that every Polish government should support. I am delighted that in this House we can express our warm sympathy for the Armenian people and our gratitude for everything your people have brought to our national culture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u88	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to vote on the draft resolution on the 650th anniversary of giving the Armenians the first privilege in Poland. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I now pronounce the results of the vote. 68 senators voted, all in favour of a resolution. [[Voting No 3]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 650th anniversary of giving the Armenians the first privilege in Poland. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Technical break...]] I'm declaring a few minutes' break. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 50 to 12 minutes 55]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, today marks the thirty-third anniversary of the martyrdom of the heroic and patriotic Polish priest, blessed priest Jerzy Popieluszko. I move to celebrate the moment of silence of this priest's memory. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] [[Let it remain in our memory.]] [[Blessed Father George Popieluszko...]] [[The assembled answer:...pray for us.]] Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the multilateral Convention implementing measures of Treaty tax law aimed at preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, drawn up in Paris on 24 November 2016. The text of the law is contained in print No 606, and the report of the committee In the forms No 606 A and 606 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Piotr Wacha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u89	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission dealt with the matter on 10 October. At the committee meeting, quite extensive reports and explanations were presented to ministers in connection with this international convention. Then a brief discussion ensued. The reason is... Usually, ratification of the convention does not lead to much discussion and controversy. In this case, there was no controversy either. But here the discussion is about the exceptional nature of this convention. The point is that this is an international multilateral convention, which is, to say the least, a framework. Namely, it leads to the possibility of modifying bilateral agreements between countries. This is about the matter of avoiding double taxation, as well as the matter of avoiding tax payments in countries with higher tax rates. This applies to a number of international agreements. And we also considered these international agreements from the point of view of the Senate's agreement to ratify them. In this case, this convention, the author and depositary of which is the OECD, actually leads to a framework agreement under which certain provisions are mandatoryly required, is about 3 elements and a number of provisions are left to be agreed bilaterally, to be agreed between the parties who have acceded to the Convention and who have signed such agreements or wish to conclude such agreements. So that there is some freedom here to choose the measures that the parties want to take. So this is a complete novelty and a complete uniqueness when it comes to international agreements. As we learned at the committee meeting, for the convention to enter into force as such, it must be ratified by five countries. As you can see, Poland is one of the first... not the first, but one of the first countries to begin ratification. We understood at the committee meeting. We actually understand that, everybody. It is in our interest that the Convention should enter into force and that we should be able to implement it. And we will be implementing them just as part of possible modifications to bilateral agreements and possibly the conclusion of further agreements. I would like to say to you that I have tried to interest the Senate in this, because it is something unique, and in any case a new one, with regard to the international agreements that we are considering and the ratification of which we agree. I would not like to refer in very detail to the issue of this convention, but I would like to recommend to those interested the materials prepared by our Legislative Office, contained in the legal opinions on the laws under consideration on this, i.e. Forty-eight, Senate meeting. Namely, it is here both to discuss the convention itself and to discuss these, one can say, innovative mechanisms contained in this act of international law. Some general reservations are also included in this opinion. I think she's very well done, customs and helpful. And that actually also shows how well our office works, when it has time to prepare, to draw up this type of opinion. Here is a good analysis of what this uniqueness is all about, as well as the mechanism of binding the parties. This is shown in this opinion. These three articles of the Convention are also mentioned, which are strictly required, as well as those which are bilaterally agreed within a certain framework outlined by the Convention. I'll say two more words. Or maybe a few sentences to be more precise. On reservations, in fact, not so many reservations as to the discussion points that the Legislative Office has indicated and which should actually be discussed. The Commission drew attention to them. Namely, our constitution requires ratification of international agreements, which are universally applicable law and enter into national law. The Legislative Office noted that, by ratifying or approving the ratification of the Framework Agreement, we do not directly agree to the notification provisions in bilateral agreements which will be concluded as a result of the adoption of the Convention and its implementation. The Bureau did not bring this forward as a plea, but as a novelty that should be discussed, because the details of the application of this convention in bilateral agreements will no longer reach us as the Sejm and Senate. So in some way, by agreeing to this ratification, we actually give the placet a number of detailed solutions that will emerge as a result. That was the first line. And the second point that the Legislative Office pointed out and which was raised and discussed at the committee's meeting was the matter of promoting the results of these bilateral agreements. Since it is not such a simple convention, each of these bilateral agreements, which will be adopted on the basis of this convention This is what the office pays attention to. It should also be published in such a way that everyone... And that's the law of everyone. First of all, parties interested in trade, paying taxes, etc. they must be well informed of these notifications, of bilateral arrangements within the framework of that Convention. In order to be able to apply them, they should be informed as well as in the case of a convention adopted every time in the form or international agreement... adopted every time as a result of Parliament's consent, by Parliament's consent. There were also some questions at the committee meeting. Ministers referred to the doubts raised here or to these issues arising from the exceptional nature of the Convention. After the discussion, the committee had no objections and unanimously voted in favour of ratifying the Convention, i.e. the law allowing ratification of the Convention as it was presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u90	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u91	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on 17 October discussed this project. The course of discussion on this project was similar to that presented by Professor Wach, and therefore I do not see the point of repeating the same arguments. I'll just try to mention the formal issues or maybe the ones that were at the committee meeting. So I will say that this is a government submission that the Sejm accepted this proposal without amendment, that this convention was drawn up last year on 24 November in Paris, that it is responsible for the implementation of the Convention by the Secretary-General of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The Secretariat shall also be located in Paris. As the professor said, if five countries come forward, three months after that, it will come into force. Three senators spoke at the committee meeting. They were Senators of Czerwiński, Kleina, Włosowicz. They asked about the scope of this convention, whether there could be a reduction in the levels of regulation that are now in force, resulting from the bilateral agreements concluded. We also discussed the way and the deadline for implementation. What Professor Wach said... This is a new instrument that gives a kind of toolkit to use. This shortens the introduction of new regulations, as it provides an automatic mechanism for amending existing bilateral agreements. It also gives the possibility to choose the scope of the regulation, i.e. some things can be used, some can not. This will result in the situation that some will be applied with modifications and some will be supplemented by new regulations. Professor Wach has already said that there will also be a new kind of legal situation, that from our point of view, we as parliamentarians are giving authority to the government... we are ceding to the government the future shape of this agreement, because it is the government that will make the notification and we will be able to use the instruments it chooses. As at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, we voted unanimously, with 7 votes in favour of the recommendation of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u92	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Włosowicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u93	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I didn't ask at the committee meeting. Then, after the discussion, one question arose among us. Mr. Ministers, if we ratify this convention, will we then have the opportunity to come out, as it turns out, that we have changed our minds or that the implementation of this convention is not going the way we imagine it to be?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u94	Thank you. Which minister would like to answer that question? Come over here, in the podium. There you go. The answer is provided by Minister Jacek Chaputowicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u95	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, of course, the OECD Convention, which is under discussion, as every document of international law provides for the possibility of termination. If it does not correspond to the Polish side, I have an article in front of me. The 37th Convention has the right to terminate it. I quote: "Each party may at any time terminate this Convention by means of a notification addressed to the depositary. So it's possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u96	Thank you. Are there any further questions? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u97	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, short question. As explained in 78 cases, we want the double taxation agreement concluded with our country to enter the convention and in 11 cases No, no, no, no, Question: why not in these 11 cases? Is it because the other country doesn't want to, or do we have some reservations? on the validity of the Convention in relation to these 11 agreements?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u98	Mr. Senator, High Izbo, Mr. Marshal, I think this is a question to the applicant, the Ministry of Finance, which will be appropriate to answer this question. If Minister Nowak...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. Then I will ask for a reply from Minister Nowak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u100	Dear Marshal, High Izbo, Dear Senator, yes, with 11 countries we don't have... The ratification of this convention does not include... These are, among other things. Algeria, Montenegro, Georgia, Jersey, Germany, Nigeria and many other countries, because... these are different cases. There are no identical cases. We negotiate bilateral agreements with some countries, some have not ratified certain agreements, so that this issue is complicated. If your senator is interested in this in detail, then we can describe every country and give reasons. But these are all kinds of reasons. So if the senator is interested... [[If it's okay, if it's not too much trouble...]] Okay, then we'll send in the details. 'Cause that's detailed information that could be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u101	Thank you, Minister. That's the answer to Senator Czerwinski. In writing. Are there any further questions? Well, since there isn't, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007, signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017. The text of the Act is contained in print No 609 and the Commission's reports In the forms Nos 609 A, 609 B and 609 C. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, which was held on 10 October 2017. The subject of our opinion is the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007, signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, ratification did not raise much controversy during the committee meeting and our discussion was limited to technical issues. The entire protocol is de facto technical in nature and only applies to natural persons who are readmitted. It is a protocol that will allow the Border Guard to expand its activities, including: the application of direct coercion measures to readmitted persons. The same law will be obtained by the Ukrainian border guard in Poland, as will our guard, if he is on the Ukrainian side and will deal with the escorted representative of our country or will participate in the process of escorting at all. During the vote, I would say there was no controversy either. All members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union were in favour of this Law without comments. Therefore, I ask the High Senate to adopt the bill, to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u103	Thank you, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u104	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which examined the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007, signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017. Since my previous speaker, Senator rapporteur, has already presented the validity of this law, I will limit myself only to informing the High House that the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions voted unanimously on this matter and the Bureau of Legal Affairs did not raise any objections. The committee therefore requests that this law be adopted without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u105	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am pleased to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration held on 12 October this year. The subject of the meeting was the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007, signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017. Dear senators, who spoke before me, discussed this bill. I will limit my statement to the conclusion that this bill did not raise any controversy at the committee meeting. After a brief explanation by the representatives of the Ministry, which is the subject of this law, we have taken a vote. All voted in favour, no one abstained, no one opposed. And this is the committee's proposal I'm presenting to the honorable Senate. The committee requests that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u107	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jacek Chaputowicz: No, thank you.]] Thank you. Are there any questions for government representatives? There isn't. I'm opening a discussion. I'm asking you to come forward for a discussion. None of you came forward for discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law - Press Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 603 and the Commission's reports In prints No 603 A and 603 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the Law on the Amendment of the Law - Press Law adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 29 September 2017. The purpose of the amendment of the Law is to implement the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which was primarily concerned with the issue of authorisation. The Court found criminal sanctions to be excessive and disproportionate to the publication of statements without authorisation. At the same time, the amendment is decommunising the law, i.e. removing all legal archaisms and adapting the wording to the current political and legal situation. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions requests the adoption of a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u109	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, the report of the committee on the Law amending the Law of Press Law. As for the position of the Committee on Culture, I will say that the committee met yesterday and had a very thorough discussion. I will immediately point out that there has been some controversy about the draft law in the form in which it came to us from the Sejm. I'll talk about it in a minute. In any event, the committee recommends to the High House that the amendment be made in Article. 1 in point 9, in Article. 49b in the mouth. 1 the word "spoken' is replaced by "literally quoted' and paragraph is deleted. 2. High Izbo, my previous speaker, Senator of the petition committee, has already said what the idea of the bill is. I'd say more. The idea of this law is also an element of decommunization of a very important area of public life. The Press Law was established in 1984 and was adopted by the Polish Sejm. There was also an important context here. Well, the law theoretically determined whether or not to define, let's call it, civilized rules of operation of the press, but everything took place in the reality of the state, which was after a period of martial law, a state in which primarily the office of censorship at ul. Mouse 2, countries that regulated and controlled all content distributed by means of printing, sound, image in public space, as well as very closely regulated fleeting prints, including posters, low-cost prints. All information appearing in the public space was subject to the so-called. preventive censorship. This was based on the fact that it belonged to the office, to the censor on the street. The mouse submitted the text, then the text was read by the censor and were proposed amendments. What was done at that time, in 1984, was tried by means of the then law of the press in that form to lead to such a situation that theoretically in quotes There is some sort of liberalisation that the parties are beginning to have some rights, the status of editor-in-chief has been defined, and a number of solutions have been introduced. E.g. such an element, well, as it was said then, the pluralization of public space At that time, the word was very fashionable, and it was an institution of the Press Council, which functioned with the President of the Council of Ministers. This was supposed to be a body that somehow was a forum for exchange of views, but also an indication of possible directions of change. Let me just remind you that in the reality of that time, we had practically a party-state monopoly in terms of media ownership. As far as radio and television are concerned, there was a radio committee, i.e. a centralized institution, which was de facto the rights of the Ministry, the chairman of the Radio Committee was basically an official of the rank of minister and was a very important figure of the then life in the post- or semi-state, or whatever it would be. They determined, totalitarian. And there was a concern of RSW, the Workers' Publishing Association, which controlled the vast majority of the press market. The President of the RSW Press was a person who had huge influence. As it was said then, radio and television was the first front of the ideological struggle for the proper shape of minds. And that's the reality of the law of the press. She later, after 1989, was amended and it is regrettable that it was not decided, especially at the time of 1989, to draw up a completely new law, which was new, including among others. copyrights, which in times of PRL theoretically existed, but were quite limited in their actions... The rights of those who created sound or image, whether they were authors of texts, were largely limited in relation to those standards which are currently adopted in the European Union or in the United States. And in this respect, the Polish copyright laws have been amended in a jumping way, and regulations have been implemented against these contemporary tendencies. On the other hand, the office of censorship was abolished This was, as I recall, formally in the first half of 1990. The RSW liquidation commission was also established, which in turn dealt with the liquidation of the assets generated by this communist company, and significant property transformations took place in the media market. In parallel, in 1993 the Radio and Television Act was introduced, which in turn laid down the rules for the operation of the radio-television and audiovisual media segment. High Izbo, what I am about to say will be focused on this amendment, which I would like to recommend to the High House as rapporteur for the Committee on Culture and Communications, but of course it must be remembered that this law is also a very important element of decommunisation. Mr Lewandowski spoke very clearly about this during the committee meeting, presenting the position of the government in the context of this law. It should be stressed here that this law is a compilation of 2 projects, one is a parliamentary project and the other is a government project. At the moment, I would like to go to the details of the amendment which the committee adopted, inspired by the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office and the current legislature, the patron. She rightly pointed out that if we looked at this project that came to us from the Sejm... I am talking about this aspect of the article. 25 point 3... I'm sorry, Art. 49b. We're dealing with this situation... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would ask you to focus so that you can understand what this nuance is all about, because it's very important. Namely, in the current sejm printing, the following is proposed: who publishes a statement without allowing the person giving information to make an authorisation under the rules laid down in the Article. 14a, fined. Previously, it is said that failure to comply with this technical act, which is authorization, is in fact a criminal offence, so it is punishable by a fine of up to PLN 5 000. And lips. 2 of this Article: the penalty referred to in paragraph. 1, is not subject to one who publishes a literally quoted statement. In other words, there is some contradiction in the proposed provision, because criminality for not obtaining authorization in the case of literal content quotes simply disappears and although it is in this record, it is de facto not there. What's causing this? In order to be consistent from the point of view of the logic of the normative act, a fine should either be ruled out at all and leave the institution of authorisation to good customs, i.e. write down that a journalist can authorize, but if he does not do so, he is not subject to any penalty Or, as we suggest, remove this paragraph. 2 in a situation where a journalist is literally, in extenso, having it on a medium, whether in an e-mail or in a recording, will quote a statement. Why? Well, sometimes it can happen that an interviewer's speech will result in an obvious slip of the tongue, or a manifest error of substance. For example, someone will say, let's assume, yes: Poland entered the European Union, as we know, was adopted on 1 May 2010. And that's the end of the quote. This is an obvious substantive error, as it is known that this happened on 1 May 2004. If someone has the wrong will, they can quote this statement in extenso and comment on it with a kind of comment that those saying these words, whether it be a public person from a ruling camp, from opposition or from anywhere, whether it be a public officer or any person giving speeches at all... Well, there could be a comment: well, as we can see, it's a person who's ignorant. And this mistake could just be due to a slip of the tongue, a lack of focus, some sort of situation... In a situation where we have the possibility to authorize the text, even directly quoted, we have the possibility to correct it. Of course, that doesn't mean... Someone may not know when we entered the Union, but then they will confirm the thesis I was talking about earlier, which is that it is a kind of ignorance. And that's why we offered one, not another. These provisions are of a technical nature. A journalist who asks a person to speak, interview or comment should immediately say: sir, you have time for authorization. This authorisation, if both parties so agree, would be regulated by law in such a way that the statement is to be authorised within 6 hours of the delivery of the statement in the case of the journal and as regards the weekly and other journals Within 24 hours. If that is not possible - and this may happen, e.g. When someone is on a journey and knows that he will be on a plane for 10 hours and will not be able to make such an authorisation He can make an appointment with a reporter to do it after 10 hours. It's a possibility, the legislator predicts it. In conclusion, I will say this: we consider this to be on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media The fact that the clarification of this provision is also important in the sense that it protects a journalist, but also gives statements from situations that would be contrary to intent or journalist's intention or commentary to the press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u111	Thank you. At present, the senators... Would the senator like to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u112	Mr. Marshal, I'm very sorry. I'd like to make a little correction. An amendment was introduced at the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. However, this amendment was left to the agreement between the Ministry and the Legislative Office. Right now, I'd like to read it and report it. [[There you go.]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point (9) of (a) in paragraph 2. 1 is replaced by the words "literally quoted', (b) in paragraph 2. 2 the words "literally quoted' shall be replaced by "an expression identical to that given by the person providing the information'. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions therefore requests that the law be adopted with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u113	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Rotnicka.]] [[No questions. There's gonna be a debate.]] Senator Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u114	I would just very much ask that the rapporteur, who unfortunately left, recounts the text... [[He's here.]] [[I can quote it.]] But since he's been reporting it... to recount what the committee has proposed. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u115	Mr. Senator, please fill in briefly. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u116	Yes, sir. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I told you what the point of this amendment was, but I will repeat it again. If the senator has a text, comparative material, then the Committee on Culture and Media proposes in its article. 49b exchange of the word "spoken"... Because at the moment this is the case: a person who publishes a statement without allowing the person who gives the information to make an authorisation under the rules laid down in Article. 14a, is fined. [[We already know what's going on. Tell me what we're gonna do...]] And we propose that we replace the word "spoken" with "literally quoted" and delete paragraph. 2 where it is said that the penalty referred to in paragraph 2 is imposed. 1, is not subject to one who publishes a literally quoted statement. In other words, the point is that the right to authorize a literally quoted expression is not fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u117	Thank you, Senator. Stay here for a minute. Are there any further questions? There isn't. The project was brought in by the government and the parliament committee. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister. Minister Paweł Lewandowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we have basically a momentous moment, because we are throwing away not only the relic of communism in symbolic terms or in the field of legal archaisms, but also the last legal censorship which was the authorization in this form, which is currently in press law. This was highlighted by the European Court of Human Rights. The main objective of the amendment to the Law is to bring the current legislation into line with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 5 July 2011 on the Wierkaniuk against Poland. The Court pointed out the need to clarify the provisions on authorisation in Poland, as well as the issue of the responsibility of journalists for publishing the material without obtaining it, which is governed by Article. 49b project. In the course of the legislative process, Article. 49b of the draft law amending the law was amended several times, both by the Sejm, which proposed the following wording: 14a is fined. The penalty referred to in the paragraph. 1, is not subject to the publication of a literally quoted statement, as well as by the Senate rule of law committee, which proposed the following wording of the Article. 49b, contained in senate print No 603 A: Who publishes a literally quoted statement without allowing the person providing the information to be authorised under the conditions laid down in Article. 14a is fined. The penalty referred to in the paragraph. 1, shall not be subject to who shall publish a statement identical to that given by the person referred to in paragraph. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It should be noted that the wording of both provisions Both proposed by the Sejm and proposed by the Senate's rule of law committee It is in line with the intention of the designers and therefore deserves approval. However, the Senate Committee on Culture and Media has further amended the wording of the Article. 49b. In her changes she went the farthest, removing her mouth. Article 2 49b. In a situation where the whole mouth. 2 was deleted, the content of the provision is contrary to the intention of the projectors, and the amendment may be contrary to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights on the Wierkaniuk against Poland. The purpose of the article. 49b. The 2nd project was to exclude the criminality of the journalist in a situation where he did not carry out the authorization, but published the exact statement that was given to him, identical to the content. It should be noted that this issue has been the subject of lengthy deliberations by the European Court of Human Rights in this judgment. The design of the authorization which does not eliminate the legal liability of the journalist in cases where he has not obtained authorisation but has published the interview, using the words used by his interlocutor precisely, has been criticised by the Court, which is described in detail in §76 and §77 of the grounds of the judgment. In the Court's view, the imposition of criminal sanctions should not only be because the statement has not been authorised, provided that it has been published in a manner that faithfully reflects the words of the speaker. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 49b. 2 has just excluded the journalist's criminal liability for not doing a really formal, technical job The obligation to obtain authorization, in a situation where the journalist did not change anything in the statements of his interlocutor and literally quoted it. Where the draft law is adopted as proposed by the senators of the cultural committee, without Article. 49b. 2, he will not fully implement the recommendations of the European Court of Human Rights. With this in mind, the Government and Parliament's draft amendment provides for a partial depenalisation of the current Article. 49, which is to turn a crime into a misdemeanor. According to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, the criminal sanction currently in force is excessive and disproportionate in relation to goods which are protected by the right of authorisation. In order to fully implement the judgment, it is appropriate to adopt the text of the Article. 49b. 2 as proposed by the Senate's rule of law committee, as requested. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u119	Now, questions. [[Yes, to Minister Lewandowski.]] Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u120	Thank you very much. Minister, but in that case, I maintain the position of the Committee on Culture and Media, because it is rational. If we remove from the journalist the obligation of authorisation, or actually the possibility of authorisation 'Cause that's the way to put it. Literally quoted on this pretext, which you mentioned, suggesting that this would be consistent with this case law, then perhaps we should take a bolder step and throw away the article. 9 and Article 9 10, to throw away this criminality at all, because from the point of view of European law, whether we call it a criminal offence or a criminal offence within the meaning of the Penal Code, this is a form of legal repression which is interpreted as an attempt to limit freedom of expression. Would the Minister therefore support the amendment on behalf of the Government, which I am wondering, which deletes the article. 9 and Article 9 Ten? This problem will then remain a matter of courtesy, customary. There are other legal provisions on which one can assert its rights if one considers that one has been wronged by the media or if the journalist considers that he has been spoken or wronged by the person from whom he sought information or quoted. And then this punishment will actually be unnecessary, unnecessary. That is not enough, nor does it guarantee that the European Court of Human Rights will recognise that this is the fulfilment of this recommendation, which is included here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u121	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u122	As I understand it, the senator is asking that authorization be removed from Polish law. [[I'm asking the Minister's opinion on this. If this were the case, what would the Minister's opinion be? For now, I'm not saying whether or not I'm asking. Please quote me faithfully, literally quote my statement. Thank you.]] That's why I wanted to clarify and explain. In this case, it seems to me that my opinion does not matter much, because I have not been authorized by the government to amend this law so strongly in this regard. I'll leave it to your senators to assess. I've spoken several times in interviews what I think about authorization, and it could possibly be referred to, but the government hasn't given me the authority to do so. He's been updating this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u123	And can Senator Jackowski do that on his own responsibility? There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u124	I'm not gonna answer that question, Mr. Marshal. I refuse to answer that question. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you another question. Namely, is it true that, as far as the Sejm is concerned, this is the thread of the discussion that we are currently discussing... Because we're practically in the middle of a debate. Was this thread taken? Whether the question of the fiction of the right to authorization in the situation of a literally quoted statement was taken up in the work at the seym stage, i.e. in committees or in the whole House?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u125	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u126	I do not remember any particular focus on this, but it is true that the Sejm proposed to amend the wording of this provision, which I read in the course of justifying the project, and the sound which does not modify the intention to submit the government, we agreed. At the same time, we also agreed on a sound which is much more precise and easier to accept in our opinion, which was proposed by the Senate's rule of law committee. Like I said, we're just putting it mildly. It is the courage of the senators, the parliamentarians, that depends on the extent to which this law could be amended.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u127	Thank you, Minister. [[I have a question.]] Senator Ryszka, you're welcome. Senator Czerwinski will be next.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question: this law gives journalists more freedom, but shouldn't we also consider a change in the journalism code, in journalistic ethics? The responsibility of journalists for the word is increasing, so that, as a result, there should also be some amendment in these areas so that more responsibility and integrity are required from journalists.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u129	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u130	The Press Law in its current burden, in the part that we do not update, defines the rights and obligations of the journalist. The journalist's main duty is to be honest. I don't know how we could be more specific about the idea of forcing that integrity on a journalist. This is, however, a matter of responsibility and interpersonal relations, as well as of a certain social agreement that we conclude, in my opinion. So integrity, impartiality, of course, are values for every journalist. But I would also like to point out that even a literal quote of the statement, even the entire statement with introduction, development and ending with the appropriate so-called. Ramming because that's what this technique is called. It can make the intention of the speaker read differently, even in the current legal state. That is why I feel that this is a cultural issue more than a legal issue. Of course, the law is also cultural and has this educational function. I can't imagine what else we could offer as a project proposal or what the senators or legislators could propose to do more I don't know how to put it. I don't know how to force morality. Well, morality is already an individual feature of each individual, and we have no control over that. And to be honest, if a journalist wants to, as journalists say in their jargon, dress us in shoes or make shoes for us, he'll do it anyway. The best interview with a very bad photo or a very good interview, which will have a bad title, which we have no control over, may have a completely different tone. I would like to remind you that lately, Tygodnik Powszechny was apologizing for the title he placed in an interview with the Archbishop. Therefore, it turns out that there are many more things that we do not have an influence on, which can completely change the sound of our statements. Therefore, as I said, I think that we should leave this as a matter of our culture, our patterns of interaction, our political culture that we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u131	Thank you, Minister. I'd like to ask Senator Czerwinski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 41 is a cleaning provision, which instead of national councils introduces the authorities constituting local government units. Why not executive? If you don't mind... Because the meeting of the voivodship board can also be reported. So we differentiate the voivodship board or the county board and the council... And then there's the other thing. We're talking about open Sejm meetings, but there's no Senate. This is a very old bill, then there was no Senate as part of parliament. You're treating both chambers a little erratic. The Seym is open and honest, and the Senate isn't, is it? [[Then we'll make an amendment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u133	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u134	As far as these national councils are concerned, we weren't going to do any special revolutions. We just wanted to replace the equivalents, i.e. The equivalent of the national council is now the body constituting local government units, not the board, simply. And when it comes to the Senate, sometimes I have this feeling that maybe we want to over-regulate. If there is still a guarantee of the right to watch or participate on an ongoing basis, if there is a reason, then why write it down. And I would also like to remind you that, in the Constitution, it seems, it says that all colleges have a duty... I mean. Everyone has the right to attend and observe public meetings of collegial bodies. And that includes the Senate. Therefore, to include it in the bill, since the constitution already regulates it... Remember, in my opinion, it's such a small bill of order. She's supposed to settle some issues in the context of the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Human Rights, since we're already going through the whole legislative process. And that's 99%. issues that are regulated here are absolutely uncontroversial, so... And adding additional provisions already goes a little beyond the scope of the law in my opinion. I think we should just sit down when the atmosphere is right and rewrite the press law and then settle these issues in a completely new legal act, and not glue any more pieces together anyway... I would call it the law that we now have, the law of zombies or the law of frankenstein, because it was created after so many years and so many novels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u135	Thank you, Minister. Minister, the press law... Now I have two questions for you. The press law only applies to the press, not to electronic media or to television?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u136	I mean, the Radio and TV Act states that press law applies properly to matters... [[So it also applies to electronic media?]] To a limited extent Yeah. [[To a limited... to the extent that it concerns the press.]] Yeah, yeah. And websites.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u137	Right. I'm the one who wants to say, pay attention... Don't you think that public television, news broadcasts are blurring the message by linking the information to the opinion? In my opinion, it's a lot of times that public television... I will no longer talk about the rules that television should watch, the principle of a certain balance, reliability, etc. But I can see that public television in the news programs is already breaking the principle of separating information from comment. It also involved... And that was particularly shocking when it came to information about young doctors who are starving. Plus, you could hear it. such information: an unbelievable judge gave such a judgment. According to the press law, as I understand it, this is no problem for Mr. TV... Or is that a problem? Do you see a problem with that? That's my question. The second question concerns titles. Well, there have been and there are situations... The amendment, as I understand it, does not concern titles, because the title is responsible for journalists or editors, because some magazines are made up by the whole editorial office, inventing titles, etc. But I know these cases when the article said that Mr. Iksiński didn't steal, and the title was: didn't Mr. Iksiński steal? With a question mark at the end. In the light of press law, that can be done. But don't you think that titles should, however, reflect the content of the article, which is that you cannot deny in the titles what is in the article? Because, as I say, I remember such examples that the title was "Didn't Mr. Iksiński steal?" although the author wrote in the article that he didn't steal, i.e. It was explained that he didn't steal it. Those two problems I'm reporting because they're... The other problem isn't common, but the first one is. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you don't mind, I'll start with the second question, because it's a lot easier for me to answer it. I myself once fell victim to such a title, although it seemed to me that I did quite an interview. But in the title it was written German media lie, only Polish people tell the truth, which could not be read from my interview because I did not say it at all. Oh, it was like this: Levandowski, then colon, and this synthesis that was supposed to indicate the contents of the interview. Of course it wasn't true. And we meet with something like this every day because we're public figures. Because just as economic activity has its risks, so public activity has its risks. Well, only the ethics of the editorial office, the ethics of the journalist depends on how it works. In my opinion, if we put in place rules that would in any way clarify the granting of titles or subjecting them to authorization or any other control, we could fire the child with a bath, because probably the same rules would severely restrict the freedom of expression of the Largo. Because I can't imagine so precisely written rules that only apply to this particular thread. And the question is, how far would that be, who would judge it? That would be difficult. I think freedom of speech is the greatest, highest value. We are able to sacrifice a lot of things to preserve this value in a democratic society. Therefore, I would be far from over-regulating the rules here and in any way entering into the issues of regulating what the press is supposed to say and what the press is going to say. Of course, there are corporate regulations and codes of ethics, there are institutions that study ethics in particular press titles or television and radio. They're also to judge things. We also remember that there is protection of personal property in the Civil Code, and that if someone feels affected, if they feel that their personal property has been violated, they should file an application to the court, sue the person who, in his judgment, violated his personal property and obtain compensation for it. An institution of correction may also be used if it is not stated or if there is a manipulation which could be subject to such correction. It's like my suggestion about the second thread that Mr. Marshal asked me to introduce. As far as the first thread is concerned, I would like to say in general that in Poland there has been a certain polarisation of television broadcasts. Right now, I have this feeling, almost all television stations are kind of pulling one way or the other, mixing opinions with facts. In the first year of college, every young student of journalism learns not to do so. I have a dream that someday all the televisions that are in Poland will have a standard like the BBC, where the facts are very clearly separated from the opinion. Moreover, with regard to some facts, it often gives two extreme opinions or links to columnists who speak on the same subject, looking from two different positions. I wish I could. As regards the specific reference to the activities which are carried out on the Polish Television I understand you're drinking on public television. It's hard for me to relate to them for two reasons. First of all, according to the Radio and Television Act, the sender shapes the program himself and no one has the right to interfere in this program, especially the government. It would be at least strange if I, as Minister, told the programme council, the president of television and the editors, what programs and movies to play or how to show these or other events. If I were to express my direct opinion on whether I liked or disliked public television, it would be an indirect attempt to influence. Of course, I have legal instruments, as the exerciser of rights from the shares of Television Poland, to exert some pressure on television authorities in certain aspects. However, it would be unethical if I spoke publicly on this matter. Moreover, it is important to remember that there is also the issue of TV management. I, as a person exercising rights from shares that participate in general meetings, have a ban arising from the Commercial Companies Code, but also from television statutes, interfering in the day-to-day management of television. Generally, in most companies it is so organized, because this is how the law is constructed in Poland, among others. the Commercial Companies Code. Thus, for at least two legal reasons, in connection with the Act on Radio and Television and the obligations that are imposed on me, and in connection with the Act on Commercial Companies, which I am calling here, I would like not to express my positive or negative opinion on the public service broadcaster, because this could be considered an unauthorised influence on the board, programme council or journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u139	Thank you, Minister. I'm not careful. You have a tool in the form of calling or appealing the head of television... [[National council...]] Council? All right. But calling the council... Well, you're an influence. It's clear. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: No, no. I don't have the power.]] Don't you have any influence over there? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: No. I don't have the authority to answer that question.]] No, thank you. I'd like to get back to the Senate for a moment. Of course, there's a Sejm and a Senate in the Constitution. There are two chambers that the constitution separates. The Sejm and the Senate. In the Constitution, it does not use the concept of "parliament." There's the Sejm and the Senate. The absence of this in this law and the lack of supplement may have consequences, including in judicial matters. Well, Minister, the court must, of course, be based on a constitution, but it is based on constitutions and laws. If there is a Seym and there is no Senate... [[Correction.]] If there's no Senate, there's no senators either, right? So there's some way to conclude that the constitution... But, as I say, the Constitution of the Sejm and the Senate are separated. They only meet at the National Assembly, and the National Assembly can be convened in certain special situations. So it's not that not including the Senate is meaningless that it doesn't matter. At the moment, Minister, because you didn't see it, supplementing it in the Senate in a situation where this section of the bill was not amended in the Seym... As I understand it, this is the bill that was in the Seym, right? [[Yes. Almost unanimously voted out.]] Since she was in the Seym, the introduction of such a change in the Senate would be against the law, because we can only correct what the Seym has corrected. So... But I would like to point out, Minister, that the absence of the Senate is a situation that may have some legal consequences. The courts are based on laws and constitutions. And that's all I want to tell you. Don't you think there might be some problems in the future? That we senators might have some problems with that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u140	In my opinion, It's my private assessment, I'm not a lawyer. Since it is directly indicated in the Constitution that all collegiate bodies have this obligation, even if this is not indicated in the Act, here is the direct application of the Constitution. It's always been, it's always been, and it's always gonna be. Especially since the recipe is clear and clear. However, of course, the legislator has the right to a legislative initiative. I am convinced that if the Senate had taken such a legislative initiative... I am sorry that we did not draw attention to this issue during the cleaning process, perhaps we should. And during the whole legislative process, no one has ever noticed it before. I don't think there would be any big problem here. Besides, I have such a doubt here that the actual introduction... of the Senate here would not, however, go beyond the scope of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u141	It'd be coming out. That's why I'm saying we can't... We would now have to come up with a legislative initiative that would have to be included in this law. There's no other option. So I would ask the senators to consider whether or not we should do it. Especially senators from the Committee on Culture and Media. [[We're gonna talk about this, but apparently... I'm sorry, I don't want to...]] Good. But as I'm saying, the only way right now is if the Senate brings forward a bill. Because you can't correct what the Sejm didn't touch when changing the bill. There you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u142	I'm just saying, if you're the marshal who's gonna let me... Because there are the Minister's answers at the moment, but I would like to say that I am wearing the intention of making this amendment, knowing the dangers you are talking about. But we can take that as an obvious oversight, well, just a mechanical look. Because such an amendment will not change the substance of the provision, it will only update the cleaning of this law in terms of the current regime in the Republic of Poland, where in the Constitution we have two chambers. I wouldn't want to be decisive here, because it's not my role, whether it's out of range or not. Because it's... Well, if we were dealing with a comma in an article that's obviously... [[That's right.]] Well, we can do that, right? This can be seen as an obvious writer's amendment. It's just... [[It's a typing error.]] Writer error, yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u143	I don't want to get into this discussion. Well, I'd be worried, but... [[But such an amendment could be made, because the initiative... it will continue, it will all be additional...]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Yeah, three readings and so on. [[Exactly.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u144	In my view, this is in line with the purpose of the Act, because the purpose of the Act was to update it, to lead to the introduction of all those institutions which have not yet been introduced, on the one hand, and on the other hand to clean those which are already archaic. Of course, we leave the evaluation to professionals, but as far as the purpose of the law is concerned, here I am referring to the interpretation of purpose, and in my view it is precisely this: to update it to the current legal state and legal system. Therefore, I think that everyone would support such an amendment, no one would raise any doubts here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u145	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[So that's what we do.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka. [[Yeah, Ryszka first...]] Then Senator Fedorovich. There you go. [[How long are you gonna talk?]] [[Do you have anything short?]] [[I'm short.]] Senator Ryszka was the first to sign up. I give the floor in order.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u146	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Senate's press law, as it was said here, is in full compliance with the 2011 judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Well, it has already been recalled here that the tribunal dealt with the matter of the provisions of the Polish law establishing criminal liability for publishing statements without obtaining authorization. It was also said that the tribunal considered the penalty to be a publication without authorisation to be excessive, disproportionate. He stated that Polish authorisation regulations in the current form cannot be considered compatible with the assumptions of a democratic society and the place occupied by freedom of expression in such a society. The European Court of Human Rights has recognised that Polish legislation may prevent journalists from asking in-depth questions for fear that their interlocutor will block the publication of the entire interview or refuse to authorize it, or will choose those who are friendly to them, cooperating with them, to the detriment of the public debate. The amended act sets out exactly the time of authorisation. If the person giving the interview does not carry out an authorisation within the statutory deadline, this will mean consent to the publication of the literally quoted statement. It's about getting information to the public as soon as possible. It is also beneficial to add that the lack of authorisation will not be a crime and will be treated as a misdemeanor. All these records will certainly make it easier for journalists to work, but they will also provide protection for information providers. The deletion from the article is also beneficial. 10 rights of the press record that the journalist in the context of the employment relationship is obliged to carry out the general programme line of the editorial office as laid down in the statutes or regulations of the editorial office in which he is employed. Well, I don't have to add that this provision has allowed the release of a journalist, even though it has presented a reliable material, but this material was not in line with the editorial. Another cosmetic change, which was also mentioned here, is that outdated concepts such as the Polish People's Republic and the names of non-existent government administrations are being removed, i.e. National councils, press councils. I will say that the last press council was set up in 1985, operated for three years and was no longer established. It is astonishing, astonishing that it has been so many years since 1989, and we are only today changing the current communist press law, passed several years after martial law was introduced in Poland, as all journalists who were not obedient to Communists were expelled from their work. Now I'm going to the point of my speech. This Act gives journalists the right to carry out a journalistic mission according to their conscience. There will be no programme line designated by the editors or the owner of the publishing house, which means it will not be applicable... it will not be able to break the conscience of journalists. Journalists will be more independent. Of course it's not total freedom, but it's a tool to speak and write the truth first and foremost, according to your conscience. Nobody's gonna be able to throw a journalist out of a job or take responsibility for that. But, as I know life, too much freedom gives birth to enslavement. Therefore, I would like to say more about this journalistic freedom and serving the truth. First, it's two facts. A fellow journalist from a left-wing newspaper told me about how he distributes topics every day at the general briefing. One day he says, "You're gonna go out tonight and bring something on the blacks." Of course, it wasn't the people of Africa, it was the priests. Another example, from the last episode of "Father Matthew." One of the parishioners noticed that the parish priest was in the park with a young woman. There was an immediate rumour in the parish about the parish priest's affair. TV arrived and a journalist asks one of the people what he thinks about the parish priest's affair. The answer is, it's outrageous that you can accuse our parish priest of having an affair. On the vision there was an answer, or actually the 2 words torn out: "It's outrageous. " As a result, it was the priest's affair that was outrageous. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well how often journalists behave unfairly, serving the publisher, implementing a line of writing at the price of breaking their conscience. I have often wondered how it is possible that the so-called. Rainbow press, i.e. colorful weekly magazines, achieve such enormous expenditures, and are full of gossip, discourses, sensations. Simply profit-oriented, they do everything they can to please, to satisfy tastes, to meet the expectations of the audience. Doesn't that mean that these media had already made the audience dependent on each other? By growing the so-called. image civilization does not require greater mental effort from the reader. However, someone compared their role to modern Kulturkampfu, the more dangerous it was to be introduced without coercion and political repression. Even worse than that, in a lot of sneakers. I'm not afraid to call them that. We read about tragic events, evil, violence, killing and rape. Often these are reports of frozen blood in the veins, and journalists seem to empathize with evil. I think it is a kind of sin of these means of communication that they speak evil in the language of evil, in the language of fear without showing both the causes and the prospects of liberation. Isn't it about giving the audience some kind of black-sighted perspective, a break of hands? Isn't it an attempt to convince us, the recipients, that this is our world, broken to the core, that there are no righteous, honest people, those that can be counted on? In a word, everyone, in quotes, is to be dirty, addicted to something, weak, with bad tendencies. The effect of this is that for these... The point is to tame us with evil, blur our values, create Some kind of anti-decalogue. One would like to say that for such media the good news is that it is trying to erase the existence of conscience in man, to convince everyone that there are no noble people. In a word, victory belongs to evil. We change press law, giving journalists even greater freedom, but do we influence journalists and media publishers to create more good, build a world of values? Someone's gonna say it's the market that decides the media, that people buy what they like, and that if these newspapers are bought, that means they're needed. If people hadn't bought it, that means the media would have fallen. This is not entirely true, because there are rich foundations, sponsors, whose purpose was to fight values, and today, as we see, especially with Christian values. There is still a second aspect of this case, which also affects journalistic integrity, which is of course in the bill. It is difficult to expect this reliability in the situation of domination so-called. political correctness. I would just like to remind you that this term was created in left-wing university environments in the United States and initially meant replacing in the language terms considered to be more neutral terms. Today political correctness has become a kind of ruthless, total public censorship or self-censorship. She became an ideology today. It is political correctness that eliminates all values except those that it values. Political correctness is today the most dangerous instrument for falsifying reality and consequently social awareness. This is what we deal with every day in politics, of course, and in the media. That is why I would like to end by recalling the words of St. John Paul II, who, addressing the people of the media, asked: do not bind the spirit of man with the authority you possess, by craving information, by promoting only a society of abundance, only a minority available; rather, be spokespersons of human dignity, its proper requirements; be a tool of justice, truth and love; defending what is human means enabling man to come to the full truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u147	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna add energy to this meeting. [[Don't scare us.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing a situation in which the European Court will not punish Poland, we are only talking about 2 or 3 things that we are updating. I am saying this as the chairman of the committee, who has taken a unanimous decision over any division. Mr. Senator Czerwiński, I would like to thank you very much for finding this mistake. It's my fault that as chairman of the committee I didn't read until the end of the bill. Thank you very much. As I know life, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will implement it legally because he has already consulted, and as a result we will avoid... I, too, deserve some reprimand that this has not yet been passed. The only problem we've been thinking about. I have doubts that I did the right thing when I voted in favour. There is a matter of this unfortunate article. 49b. My committee recommended that this rule of mouth. Strike out what does not apply. It was about the fact that he didn't have information from a journalist... that he wouldn't be punished if he literally quoted our statement, and in that statement there might be words that would normally be crossed out and thrown out of the interview. It was a very important question, which was also raised by our head of the Legislative Bureau. And that's what we've come to... Nevertheless, I am convinced of what we are talking about with our lawyers. It doesn't change if... the law doesn't change unless politicians change it. Today I must say that I am very close to supporting the amendment proposed by the petitioning committee, which is to say: 'a statement identical to that given by the person providing the information.' She removes the word "literally" it could cause a journalist to give everything how it goes. It stresses that this is to be the same as the information given. This is a legal solution that convinces me. We will take decisions, Mr Marshal, at the joint committee meeting, and then we will present the Senate with amendments to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u149	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to join those thanks which Mr Fedorowicz expressed to Senator Czerwiński. Indeed, an important element has been highlighted so that there is no such legislative sloppyness in this law. Now, already in a formal manner, I submit to the hands of the Marshal an amendment to the Law on the amendment of the Law on the amendment of the Press Law, which clarify these provisions and at the same time introduce into the content of the amended Act a provision concerning the Senate of the Republic of Poland. I make these amendments on behalf of Senator Czerwinski, Senator Jan Żaryn and my own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u151	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed... No, I inform you that you have tabled a legislative proposal in writing by Senators Czerwiński, Jackowski and Żaryn. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative wish to respond to the requests made? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: No, thank you.]] No. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Culture and Media to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases. The text of the act is contained in print No 604, and the report of the committee In print No 604 A. Now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy in connection with the law adopted by the Sejm in September this year on the amendment of the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. This is not a common topic of our debates and, as it turns out, it is not a controversial topic either. This is an initiative by the government that cleans up cases concerning the use of the accident fund. The accident fund, which consists primarily, actually exclusively, of the employer. As you know, they pay contributions, not less than 1.8% up to a level, depending on the degree of threat, even more than 2%. And it is also known that all those who violate the safety rules, as a result of which accidents arise, have this premium increased. The legislator proposes that this contribution in the following years should not be less than 1% an accident fund. Unoriented or not following all numbers I inform you that this is the amount of about 65 million PLN in 2017. To this amount, not without hindrance, to be honest, has been gradually achieved. It started from a few million to finally reach the level of expenditure on accident prevention and occupational diseases about 65 million PLN this year. I think you've noticed that I'm talking about this calmly because it's one of the few funds in which there's a superat. But this is also, as was apparent from the discussions in the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, an open gateway to various solutions. Of course, the mandate of both this committee and the Senate did not allow for any deeper discussions, but I leave this to the senators. Finally, the committee accepted 5 amendments to the proposed Act. One of them is substantive and increases this fund in the following years from 1% up to 1.1% , but by stating that it is to be at least 1,1% , the Social Insurance Fund is authorised to form it at a higher level. Further 4 amendments are legislative in nature. The first amendment received support and was accepted by the committee. The remaining amendments without comments were accepted by the committee and by the government. I am therefore authorized to request that the High Senate adopt the bill in the form set out in the report; print No 604 A. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u153	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see anyone willing to ask questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill, Deputy Minister Marcin Zielenecki? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the Law amending the Accident Act, adopted on 29 September 2017, is to regulate the procedures and rules for the financing of activities related to the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases. This is the task that has been carried out by the Social Insurance Institution since 2012. I am sorry, since 2013 1 January 2013 has entered into force an amendment to the Accident Act, which determined the interest on the funds of the accident fund, which should be used to finance such projects aimed at reducing the risks associated with accidents at work and occupational diseases. With regard to the implementation of these new rules, the amount of funding for the activities of employers, contributors related to the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases is increasing significantly. In the first year of application of this law, the envelope for accident prevention amounted to about PLN 300 thousand. This was, you can say, the year in which these rules took place, they started to apply, so that the number of projects submitted by employers was also small, because such projects were only 7. During the next few years of the new legislation, we have seen a huge increase in the interest of contributors to such projects. In 2016, the projects completed, i.e. those which received funding from the accident fund, were already 100 times more, 704. The amount of PLN 55 million 400 thousand has been spent on these projects. It can be said that such an increase in the level of interest in expenditure on accident prevention has led to the need for precise regulation of the procedures accompanying the identification of those projects which receive funding. To date, the Social Insurance Institution has carried out this activity on the basis of its own internal regulations. Since we are talking about spending public funds of significant value, we have recognised that a rational, correct solution is simply justified by the statutory regulation of these procedures in the accident law. In relation to the work carried out in the Senate Committee, which debated the law adopted by the Sejm on 29 September 2017, I would like to say that two types of amendments were tabled during the work. First of all, I would say amendments of a nature Legislative, technical amendments aimed at improving a certain aesthetic value of this law. These were amendments that were tabled by the Senate Legislative Office. At the committee meeting, I supported these amendments of a purely legislative nature as worthy of consideration. However, as Senator Rulewski said, one of these amendments was substantive. This was an amendment tabled by your senator to change the minimum level of resources to be allocated to the financing of accident prevention, from the level currently specified in the Act, i.e. 1% income of the accident fund, at 1,1%. During the committee's meeting, I explained that the law of the accident fund contained such a structure: it sets out the minimum level of resources that should be allocated during each calendar year to the financing of accident prevention, but this is not a rigid level, because the financial plan of the accident fund, which is an annex to the budget law adopted for each calendar year, already sets out the amounts of those funds which should be allocated to the financing of accident prevention. In this respect, it can be said that the Council of Ministers, proposing a specific solution, a specific envelope of funds in the draft budget law, and then the Sejm and the Senate in the legislative work in Parliament, simply taking into account the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund and the general financial situation of the State, but also It can be said that these authorities must assess a certain potential interest of employers themselves in projects of this type that may be notified in relation to the application for assistance from the accident fund. I gave an example of the draft budget law for 2018, where we propose that the value of the funds allocated to accident prevention in an unprecedented way compared to those in the law will increase because, as I mentioned, The expenditure on accident prevention in 2016 amounted to PLN 55 million 400 thousand. And in the draft budget law for 2018 we propose . taking into account on the one hand it is the scale of interest in these projects and, on the other hand, the financial situation of the accident fund to increase the pool of these funds to PLN 225 million. This PLN 225 million is an amount corresponding to about 3% of the value of the income of the accident fund. We simply want decisions to be taken on the amount of these measures, depending on the overall financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund, and therefore, during the committee's work, I have made a negative comment on this very substantive amendment tabled by Senator Rulewski. And I'm supporting that negative assessment today. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u155	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Me.]] You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u156	Minister, isn't there a profound contradiction between the government's will to significantly increase this amount? As you said, up to 3%, although my short research does not confirm this information The fact that you are quite strongly cut off from the amount that is proposed and that, of course, does not contradict other solutions. The point is that next year it will amount to just 72 million PLN. So there's three more here. What is the contradiction?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u157	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me repeat again: in general, we are talking about the statutory solution contained in the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases, a solution which sets out a minimum threshold for measures that can be spent precisely for accident prevention purposes. The point is not to impose, one can say, a certain rigour associated with such an increase of this minimum threshold in relation to the solutions originally adopted in the 2012 Act, which introduced these arrangements for financing accident prevention from the accident fund and which provided for such a continuous increase in accident prevention expenditure, precisely from the accident fund. We are this maximum threshold, then set at 1% They've already reached it. In this amendment, we have proposed that, in a way that can be said, this funding should be kept constant at 1%. But like I said, we want to make decisions every year. Of course, this will be a minimum of 1% , but first, according to the financial condition of the accident fund, and secondly, given the scale of interest in various types of projects aimed at improving working conditions on the part of entrepreneurs, we will decide at what level these expenditures should be defined during a given year. In other words, keeping this threshold at 1% does not mean that a larger pool of funds will not be allocated to accident prevention. This is reflected in the 2018 draft budget. This shows that such decisions take into account the financial situation of the accident fund and the interest of employers in such programmes. We're just taking it into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u159	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth recalling here what issue We're leaning down right now. Minister, High Izbo, it is well known that entrepreneurs, assuring themselves against unavoidable accidents at work, as well as the need for further investments, are paying contributions according to the system of the insurance fund known throughout Europe. So we're talking about measures that are essentially the means of entrepreneurs and indirectly also the crews. It was invented that part of the money, extremely small, because 1% Unfortunately, in these past bad times, as some say here on the right hand side, these amounts were even smaller, and they were spent on accident prevention. Presidentialism is such a nice word, but that is one of the things that entrepreneurs do with projects modernising their working environment. What kind of projects? Mute, facilitate lifting, protect against high electromagnetic voltages. And imagine that from the amount of almost 6.5 billion PLN of contributions paid returns to entrepreneurs, and above all to employees, the amount of just 65 million PLN. The truth is, the government... I didn't focus on it, but the government confirmed that this law is systematizing it, separating the role of who accepts offers, i.e. the ZUS, and who evaluates, that is, the reliable Central Institute of Labour Protection so far. We will thus avoid these long-term tenders and, as the Minister said, the internal hierarchy of the internal evaluation of these projects. This was necessary because instead of, as the Minister said, 5 and 7 projects presented by employers, we are currently dealing with 7,000 projects, various projects aimed at improving security in small and very large enterprises. During the work on this law, it turned out that large companies feel affected by these small amounts, relative and absolute, intended for modernisation. It was, but it's time for a good change. I am not thinking about a political change, but about a change that goes all over Europe, which, after all, forces us to create harmonious working conditions. That's what safety is all about. Although the data indicates it, and the Labour Protection Board confirms it... Well, I've been disfellowshipped for what's supposed to be customary. The Council reaffirms that, although accidents, the deadly ones and the heavy ones, are decreasing, let us not forget that they are also decreasing for structural reasons. More and more, especially in the past period, were single companies which did not report these accidents. I think the biggest number of accidents is not in mining and construction, but, ladies and gentlemen, in transport. Single companies do not report these accidents because they cannot sue themselves. There are no accident committees there, which is obvious. And let's take an example. Supposedly 800,000 Ukrainians work in Poland. Tell me how many of them have ever suffered an accident. Where's the statistics on these people? She's not here because either they work in the gray area, or the employer doesn't report them. At least they're not in the PIP statistics. Maybe there's no need for that distinction. I just want to say that these statistics aren't bad, but they're not quite true, but it's true that we're all here, regardless of the political color... Never enough prevention, it takes even more security to get an employee to show up at home, not a message about putting that employee in the hospital. The conclusion of this is a statement that, as I say, contradicts the contradictions given by the Minister. If it is that we have constantly increased this amount, then a good change, which is actually understood, addressed to these 7 000 applicants, should give them a better chance to implement their projects. They build a good atmosphere around the fund and in the plant itself. One of the company's workers, where the stones were worked, wrote that it was finally quiet at the plant, that he finally knew why a contribution was paid to prevent accidents at work. My offer is modest. Now that we've completed the 1% increase in this contribution, ...I want to persuade the government, which I see is categorically opposed to the continuation of the increase of this contribution over the next five years by 0.1%. So that's just 7.5%. ...Mr. Minister here said next year it's going to be 225 million. If there's 225 next year, it's my offer to guarantee that only 6.5 isn't in contradiction. Especially since you can give more. Let this really be guaranteed at 6.5 million, especially since big companies are fighting for this money. Well, there are bigger funds, but there's a bigger threat, and there's a bigger risk. That is why I urge the High House not so much to disperse against this government as to become the owner of the accident fund, which I understand most entrepreneurs are paying for. The amendment aims to reach a level of 1.5% in 2022. That's 90 and 100 million. Let me remind you again that this is the only fund that has a surplus. I do not think that Minister Morawiecki, Minister of Development and Finance, will fight so as not to reduce the budget a bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u161	Thank you very much. You're making amends. Yes, Senator? [[Yeah, yeah.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Łuczak and Kilian have made their speeches in the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Senator Szymanski. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm reporting because I don't quite understand... this is the same amendment with the one Senator Rulewski...]] [[No, different.]] [[Different? Then I'm pulling out. Thank you.]] We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. The text of the Act is contained in print No 605, and the committee's report In print No 605 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I have the honour to present the course of the discussion that took place at the meeting on the revision of the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act and the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases; print No 605. The bill was prepared by the government and entered the Sejm on 9 August. The first reading was held in the Social Policy Committee. No amendments were tabled at the time. The second reading of the project took place at the forty-eightth session of the Sejm. Since no amendments were tabled, the Sejm immediately started third reading. The Act was adopted on 29 September this year.: 434 Members were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. What's the purpose of the bill? The purpose of the Act is to cover ex officio pensions instead of incapacity pensions granted to persons who do not have an adequate internship of employment for women and 25 years for men with a guarantee of the amount of the lowest benefit. These pensions are only covered by the guarantee of the amount of incapacity pension already paid. The amount of the lowest pension for the total incapacity for work is PLN 1 thousand and the pension for the partial incapacity for work is PLN 750 defined by the Act of 2 December 2016 amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The amendment makes it possible to guarantee the amount of the lowest benefit to be covered by an ex officio pension instead of an incapacity pension, up to PLN 1 000 or PLN 750 respectively, depending on whether the total or partial incapacity pension has been charged. The Act provides for an increase in the pensions granted ex officio to the above amounts, together with an adjustment from 1 March 2017. The Act also introduces rules on the rules for the granting of pensions for incapacity for work. It is not possible to obtain the right to an invalidity pension by a person who has reached the retirement age or who has been entitled to a pension. The proposed changes combine with a review of the functioning of the pension system in 2016. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the day of the announcement. No amendments were made to the bill during the committee's work and all present senators voted in favour of its adoption. The Legislative Office did not raise any legislative objections to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u163	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the committees and parliamentary clubs for supporting the Act of 29 September 2017, a law which, I can say, refers to the solutions introduced in 2005 and which consisted in creating a mechanism for ex officio retirement by the person who, in the period preceding the retirement age, took a pension for incapacity to work and reached the retirement age. This is an exception to the general rule in the social security scheme that pension benefits are granted shall be determined at the request of the insured person concerned. It can be said that the shortcomings in the regulations that were introduced into the pension law at the time were made aware of themselves in 2017 and that on 1 March of this year an operation was carried out to increase the amounts of the lowest pension benefits on a scale, one might say, previously unlisted. Unlike in previous years, the amount of the lowest pension benefits increased not by the rate of the valorisation of all benefits, but by 13%. It turned out that this guarantee referred to by the senator was not less than the amount of the lowest pension for incapacity for work. It is, it can be said, harmful and insufficient for those who, due to their incapacity to work before reaching retirement age, have failed to achieve a minimum internship guaranteeing the lowest pension benefit. And it can be said that this law has extended the subjective scope of the guarantee to obtain the lowest pension benefit just for those who have acquired the right to a pension of their own, without having had a previously developed minimum insurance internship of 20 years for women, 25 years for men. We extend this guarantee to 105 000 people who have so far been entitled to retirement but have not reached this pension at the level of the lowest pension on 1 March 2017. As far as the second solution is concerned, it is actually the fixing of a legal gap or the filling of a legal gap which has been in the system since 2005 and which has been identified in the context of the pension review that we carried out last year. It turned out that by introducing a public pension, we actually forbade people who, before reaching retirement age, had become unfit for work... we took the possibility of taking a pension for incapacity to work beyond that age limit, but we forgot to introduce rules that would prevent people from applying for a pension for incapacity to work after reaching that retirement age. And the principle, you can say, equal treatment requires that these two categories of properly insured be treated uniformly. Thank you again for your support, and I ask you to adopt the law as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u165	Thank you very much, Minister. Before we get to the questions, I'd like to welcome the delegation present at the gallery... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[She was.]] Oh, I didn't make it. Therefore, we move on to questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u166	I would ignore your incomplete statement, Minister, regarding the lack of value for the lowest pensions. I will even remind you that the government of PiS and the right were paying 100 gold allowances, and then there were constantly added other allowances to the lowest pensions. I don't know how much it was, if it was more than... But the question is something else. Namely, it is true that the concern of the government with regard to those pensioners with the lowest benefits is worthy of attention, because it guarantees them this level of the lowest benefit. But let's not hide that there is no such concern for other retirement groups. They are not guaranteed such growth. And yet, all the retirees somehow worked for the fund. And the question is... Oh, the pensioners, I'm sorry, because we're talking about the pensioners, which is about people who have lost their professional ability. In turn, the question is: by introducing this solution, is the government already categorically cut off from further reforms, which assumed a capital pension scheme, thus linking the potential of the contribution with the amount of the pension? Because here we are dealing with the decree of the heart, and the heart is not always true. [[Voice from the room: What's the question?]] Does the government categorically break with the need to change the current pension system, which I repeat Isn't it based on the capital of the contribution?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u167	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will repeat that the subject matter of the Act under discussion today is, it can be said, to remove certain shortcomings, deficiencies in the fact that some insured persons who have acquired the right to an ex officio pension, losing the right to a pension from the title of incapacity to work, who are going from office to retirement, have lost the guarantee of the lowest pension. So we're really talking about pensioners who have become incapable of working at a relatively young age without having the chance to work for this minimum internship, guaranteeing their right to a pension at the lowest level. [[Because they didn't have a contribution internship.]] As regards the question of the senator and the very substance of this guarantee, which we are talking about, I would like to remind you that in the pension scheme of a defined contribution which was introduced in Poland on 1 January 1999, indeed, as the senator points out, the treatment of insurance internship as a condition for the acquisition of the right to a pension, in other words, any person who reaches the retirement age in Poland, and who has had at least a short period of insurance, acquires the right to a pension. But the insurance internship took on a different character, i.e. it has taken on a character which is precisely linked to the provision of the lowest pension guarantee. And actually, we don't change that principle. We maintain the principle that the coverage of the lowest pension guarantee applies to persons who have reached minimum traineeships. I would like to remind you that on 1 October the Law restoring the retirement age in force until the end of 2012 entered into force. The entry into force of this law is also linked to the extension of this guarantee, because the entry into force of this law was accompanied by a reduction of the insurance period, the premium period and the non-contributory period, which gave the insured women the guarantee of the lowest pension benefit, of the 25-year period, as provided for by the law increasing the retirement age, to 20 years, as can be said to have provided for by the pension law until the end of 2012. This is also a solution which aims to extend the scope of this insurance guarantee, which involves an appropriate length of premium and non-contributory periods. So that I would answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u169	Thank you. Another question from Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u170	Yeah, another one. I think it's the last one. You said that after 1999, also as a result of the changes that President Duda has proposed, this is not linked to the traineeship. It is true that the pension is not linked to the internship, but is linked to the right to a minimum pension. You can't get a minimum pension if you're in a couple of years old. You have to be 20 or 25, which is less than the idea, say, of the Tusk government, where it grew, especially in the case of women. Did I get that right? So where's the pension coming from? The second question less than the minimum for those who have fulfilled the age requirement but who have not fulfilled the internship requirement? Capital... No, an intern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u171	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's because we have a group of insured people who don't meet the condition of achieving the required internship, which results in these people acquiring the right to a pension because, as I said, the right... [[But not the minimum.]] ...the pension doesn't depend on the length of the insurance period, but it doesn't have... If, of course, they have not worked out an adequate amount of the pension contribution, i.e. in the form of contributions, they have not contributed to the scheme such as to allow, using the formula of the defined contribution, the calculation of the pension of at least the lowest pension... If these two conditions are not met, then they are entitled to a pension, but the pension may be lower than the lowest pension. [[I'm not gonna ask anymore. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u173	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Szymański made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. The text of the act is contained in print No 608, and the report of the committee In print No 608 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Yesterday, the finance and budget committee examined this bill. This law essentially introduces certain provisions of European Union law, Regulation of the European Parliament and Council of the European Union into the Polish legal system. They relate to the scope of information in the case of the sale of collective investment and insurance products... In Poland, the body for which supervision of compliance with these provisions will be ceded, possibly punishing entities who do not comply with these provisions. In this regard, we are extending the powers of this body to the Financial Supervision Commission. To this law, our Legislative Office submitted two written comments and one oral comment. The written comments concerned the question of interpreting and detailing. The first of these comments concerned the use of a coherent In this catalogue of penalties imposed in cases where entities do not comply with those rules, penalties are divided into two groups. In the first case, the penalty may be a quota or a percentage, and in the second case it is so-called. 2 times the amount of benefits obtained or losses incurred... Here in this directory there is a two-way coherent or And the legislator pointed out that it could be misconceptioned that this punishment would be twice imposed. The legislator suggested using the word "or" here to make it clear from these provisions that, of course, one of these penalties will be imposed, and not both, that these penalties will be imposed as an alternative. Mr Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State, who represented the Ministry of Finance, stated that he felt that there was no need to make any changes in this regard, and that the double use of the word "or " is due to the translation of the original text from English. The second comment of the Legislative Bureau concerned the use of the word "sanctions." The legislator stated that in the Polish legal system the sanction has a criminal dimension, is linked to the imposition of financial penalties or other penalties, and in this catalogue, in addition to financial penalties, it is also possible to impose penalties in quotes consisting in issuing a warning. And the Legislative Bureau stated that it would be more sensible to use the wording on the imposition of fines or other administrative measures, because these warnings, in the opinion of the legislator, do not fit into the Polish understanding of the word "sanctions." The Minister also did not share these reservations with the Legislative Office. The legislator also made a third reservation It was a reservation. It's not in writing, it's oral. He pointed out that we are also amending the Act on Insurance Activities. And in this law, which we are adopting here, the abbreviation "Commission" refers to the Financial Supervision Commission, and in the Act on Insurance Activities in the vocabulary the definition of the Financial Supervision Commission is defined as the supervisory authority, and the word "Commission" refers to another committee, the actuaries commission. The legislator pointed out that there might be inconsistencies in terms of definitions. Mr Bierecki was not able to comment on these reservations, and at the request of President Grzegorz Bierecki, such a finding has been made that if the Minister considers that there is any inconsistencies in this respect, an amendment will be tabled in the debate. I don't know what the ministry's position is, you're the minister, maybe you'll be able to address this third issue. And the committee unanimously supported this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u175	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. [[So detailed that...]] [[...necessary.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voices from the room: No.]] No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up to speak. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Teacher Compensation Benefits. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No 188, and the committee's report In print No 188 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present a report on the joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport of 18 October 2016 concerning the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Teacher Compensation Benefits; Senate Prints No 188 and 188 S. The representatives of the applicants of this bill are Senator Robert Mammothov. The aim of the bill is to grant the right to provide compensation to teachers of practical training employed in practical training institutions comparable to teachers covered by benefits employed in other educational establishments, including in lifelong learning institutions. Members of the Education Council of the Practical Training Centre in Warsaw petitioned for the inclusion of teachers in practical training centres in the catalogue of persons entitled to receive compensatory benefits. During the joint work of the committee, the discussion made particular reference to the fact that the current Act on Teacher Compensation Benefits was adopted in 2009 and there has been no change in the number of persons entitled to benefits since then, although the subject has been examined several times during the work in the Senate. The opinions presented on this issue, which we had read before and during the committee meeting, were in principle unchanged at that time. Thus, the Minister of Finance maintained a negative opinion for the submission of an initiative to extend the subject-matter circle of teachers covered by the provisions of the Act on Teacher Compensation Benefits. According to the Minister of Finance, we read, among others. that compensation benefits are financed by the State budget; it would be expected that the financed task generating the financial consequences for the State budget would be carried out within the framework of the financial resources held by the managers and without any additional burden on the State budget. In turn, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy underlined the fact that the Act on Teacher Compensation... that there had been no change in the subject matter of persons entitled to provide, including the catalogue of entitled persons since 2009. In any case, the position of the government at that time has always been negative in terms of the extension of powers. On the basis of data on the 2016 benefits collected, saying that the increase in expenditure should amount to a maximum of PLN 13 million in the first year of the possible operation of this change... On the other hand, an expert on regulatory impact assessment at the Legislative Office on the basis of data received from the Ministry of National Education estimated that the maximum impact in 2017 and 2027 would amount to about PLN 96 million and the total impact of the proposed regulation is estimated to be around PLN 131 million. A representative of the Ministry of National Education additionally pointed out that in addition to teachers of practical training, there are other teachers in the centre of lifelong learning who are not involved in providing compensation, among others. teachers working in libraries or psychological clinics. According to the Minister of National Education, the nature of the work of teachers employed in practical training institutions is identical to the nature of the work of teachers employed in lifelong learning institutions. In the light of this, it is impossible to point out the arguments in favour of skipping the Act on the compensation of teachers for practical training institutions and vocational training and training centres. In turn, the Trade Union Forum also called for teachers of public psychological and pedagogical counseling. In the discussion, a member of the Management Board of the Polish Teachers' Association strongly supported the draft law, stressing that teachers of the practical training centre perform in principle similar if not the same work as teachers of the lifelong learning centre. He also noted the omission of teachers in psychology-pedagogical clinics. In quite a long discussion, the senators particularly pointed out that the Senate had been proceding on this matter several times, even said that six times, and that there were always two rations. The first one is equal. If teachers from one institution are entitled to compensation benefits, then why should teachers from practical training centres be excluded from this. The second point is that compensation benefits have been introduced from the outset with restrictions. The question has also been raised that teachers of practical apprenticeships are not the only group, and that making such a breach will cause other groups of teachers to make their claims. It was also underlined that teachers' trade unions agreed in 2009 to this solution for teacher compensation benefits. It has been made clear that extending the scope of the subjective law only to teachers of practical training centres will not eliminate the shortcomings of this law, but will arbitraryly expand the catalogue, and that we should immediately expand the catalogue or not change this law at all. It has also been pointed out that there is fundamental justice in this case, that there is no dispute that teachers of practical training centres do the same work as other classes covered by compensatory benefits. It was stressed that not all eligible teachers would immediately benefit from compensation benefits, that some would continue to work, so the real impact of the introduction would be less than estimated. And the concerns of the Minister of Finance regarding the financing of the proposed change and the additional burden on the state budget and the discipline of public finances can be addressed by shifting the date of entry into force of the Act to 1 January 2018. Finally, after taking into account the Minister of Finance's negative opinion, a motion was made to reject the bill. The vote against the proposal was 9 Senators, 6 against and 4 abstentions. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: No questions for you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u177	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Robert Mammothov. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I'd like to ask you a question like this... In total, the committees rejected this bill, as I understand it, was the result of the vote... [[Yeah, nine votes...]] ...in the direction of the Minister of Finance. How is it that the Minister of Finance is in favour of compensation for miners, and when it comes to teachers, i.e. the weaker environment, the Minister of Finance is against? How did you explain this principle at the committee meeting? And second question. What is the cost of this benefit in relation to the state budget? Because the cost of compensation for miners is almost PLN 2 billion 400 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u179	Mr. Senator, a few threads came up in that question. Firstly, the argument in favour of making a motion for rejection was, of course, a negative opinion of the Minister of Finance. I would not like to speak of the detailed argument made by the Minister of Finance regarding why it is negative... I mentioned a little here that because the public finance order doesn't allow it right now. This law would most likely have entered into force within a year and resources would not have been provided. The funds should be found or transferred from some savings, as the finance minister clearly pointed out that the funds should be found with the authorising officer who has the funds. So the state budget rules have decided on this negative opinion. As far as costs are concerned, I have mentioned that the maximum cost that has been estimated per year is 12 and 13 million, assuming that all teachers in the centre of practical training would benefit from the powers they would have been entitled to. However, practice shows that not all will benefit from it and some teachers will continue to work. During the discussion, it was said that this could be one million dollars a year. It is certainly not a shocking or high cost associated with the introduction of the law. I think that's all I can say. I told you before, when the teachers' compensation benefits are in place... By 2032 the maximum cost could be PLN 191 million. [[So 15 times less than the miners.]] That's what it says.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u180	Thank you very much. Senator Mammoths. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u181	Thank you very much. I'd like to tell Senator Kleina it's not 1 million, it's 760,000 a year for the first three years. I have another question. I would like to ask, Mr. Senator, do you see the difference between the teacher of the profession and the teacher who stands by the board?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u182	If I were to talk about the lack of difference, I would say that teachers who work at the centre of lifelong learning, teachers of practical training and teachers of the centre of practical training... There's no difference here. This is even due to the Minister of Education's regulation. However, if I were to compare the teacher standing by the board, the math teacher or the Polish language... Here you could find a difference, because there is a different nature of vocational training and general education. [[I'd like to make it up to you. Mr. Senator, the Teacher's Card applies to both.]] Yes. Both teachers are subject to the Teacher's Charter. There's absolutely no difference here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u183	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Klein. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will ask the same question that I asked the Senator of the rapporteur here. I would like to ask you why the government in such a small matter, in which small amounts are involved, says that for budgetary reasons it cannot accept the law, and in the case of another environment I'm talking about miners. It accepts the amount of more than PLN 2 billion and prepares the amendment of the law. In that case, with the amendment of the budget law that you are planning this year, If the state budget is so good, could changes be made for other industries, environments that expect compensation? We're talking about teachers here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by pointing out the genesis from where the teacher's compensation system came from, and I'll pay attention to the arguments that the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy raised in 2016. It can be said that the teacher compensation system is closely linked to the changes that were introduced in the general pension system at the end of 2008. These changes consisted in the reduction of specific pension rights related to the defined benefit scheme by introducing a bridge pension institution. Right? The bridge pension institution assumed to limit the scope of the individual right to early termination of employment by the insured person employed under special conditions, in a specific nature. As regards teachers, I would like to point out that the annexes to this law, which defined the category of workers who could continue to benefit from the right to a bridge pension, provided that only one category of teachers would be able to exercise such entitlement. Teachers employed in special education. The issue of the inclusion of teachers in the Bridge Pension Act was discussed at that time. Let me remind you that she was also the subject of a dispute. The Act on Teacher Compensation Benefits, you can say, introduced a cover solution, i.e. covered benefits of a pre-retirement nature, i.e. not those which the legislator called retirement, but some kind of pre-retirement, some categories of people employed in education, those who work as teachers. History of both solutions And the solutions contained in the Bridge Pension Act, and the solutions which were later included in the Teacher Compensation Act, are such that so far these solutions have been treated as covered by a kind of social agreement, a kind of social consensus. We have made a number of changes in the pension system, such as the changes introduced in 2012, consisting of an increase in the retirement age, the general retirement age. Let me remind you that this was not accompanied by any adjustments in terms of the solutions we are talking about today, i.e. the arrangements contained in the Bridge Pension Act and the arrangements contained in the Teacher Compensation Act. We simply would not want this consensus, which was then reached, in some way in breach, so I would say.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As I remember, this compensation was introduced as a kind of sweetness, ersatz, I would call it, a substitute, for those teachers who were subject to the article. 88 Teacher's Charter, i.e. they had the opportunity to retire regardless of age after reaching a certain job placement and lost it. Therefore, I have a question for you: were teachers employed in practical training institutions subject to the article. 88 Teacher's Charter in its original form, i.e. in that last sound, because there were years extended... That's the first question. And second question. You're talking about consensus. Was it not so that they were simply forgotten that certain facilities were simply forgotten when the compensation was introduced? Well, if teachers of 2 different types of institutions, otherwise named, but performing the same range of work under the same conditions, are to have a different pension security status, then something is wrong. This was also highlighted by the Constitutional Tribunal. So two questions. What about Art. 88, have teachers employed in practical training institutions been subject to this article? What happened that they weren't in the Compensation Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u188	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The senator raised the issue of specific pension rights under Article. 88 Teacher's Cards. These are the rights that were then, i.e. At the end of 2008, following the adoption of the Law on Bridge Pensions and the subsequent adoption of the Act on Teacher Compensation Benefits, they were treated as retirement rights. I.e. entitlements addressed in principle to teachers covered by a defined benefit scheme, i.e. teachers who are included in the so-called. old pension scheme, pension scheme covering persons born before 1 January 1949 In short, this arrangement was essentially intended to apply to persons covered by a defined benefit pension scheme, but of course an exception was created. And it's like the rule that was introduced in 1999 so there's no doubt. And an exception was created for teachers who were born after 1948, i.e. by definition they were included in the new pension scheme, the defined contribution pension scheme. This exception was that those who were internship requirements because it was actually only an internship pension until the end of 2008 could benefit even when they were retiring after 2008. Thus, it can be said that the diversity of powers, depending on the date of birth, has been the case since we started the pension reform. Right? This issue of differentiation of powers has been examined several times by the Constitutional Court. The Court, for example, has not seen a breach of the principle of equal treatment as regards the gradual abolition of specific pension rights of a group of teachers. You're right, Senator, to say that this group of teachers Mr Senator, the rapporteur. He also confirmed it. It is covered by the Teacher's Charter, but of course that does not mean that all teachers who are covered by the article. 1 The Teacher's Charter today benefits from those special pension rights that have been maintained. Right? I mean these two solutions I mentioned, i.e. it is a bridge pension addressed after all to some teachers employed in special education and to some teachers covered by the right to teacher compensation. I am aware that this does not exhaust all categories of persons covered by the article. 1 Teacher's Charter, but, as I said, these are solutions that have been introduced and which in some sense have been covered by the social consensus, as I mentioned, in 2008 and 2009 as regards the Teacher Compensation Act. The second question concerned the Court, but I have the impression that I have answered that question. Although the Court did not assess the solutions directly applicable to the Teacher Compensation Act, it assessed the solutions contained in the Bridge Pension Act, including the exclusion of non-educators employed in special education from the subject-matter of the Act. [[I'm sorry. If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u190	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u191	Minister, in other words: teachers employed in practical training institutions were subject to art. 88? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Yes.]] So they could go to... I mean, they could get retirement benefits regardless of their age, only because of their internship, and on the basis of a social contract, they were excluded from compensation benefits. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Yes.]] That's how I understood your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u192	The same applies to other categories of teachers who do not fall within the scope of both regulations, the Bridge Pension Act and the Teacher Compensation Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u193	Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u194	I'm sorry to ask you this at the end, but these things are pretty important to me. I keep comparing debates about miners and teachers. You're the Minister of Social Affairs, and you're handling all the pension stuff. Of course, on the occasion of the work on compensation for miners, Minister Tobiszowski was here, who argued that there were retired miners who lived in the same block... Anyone can be in a slightly different situation. The government here proposes that we make it even so that there is no sense that there is a great injustice. Tell me how. I'm supposed to translate in other environments now. I'm talking about teachers. Where there are also certain things that were part of the social contract, that at a difficult time, at a difficult time... Teachers as people who, however, are aware and responsible... [[Question!]] It is known that they are not the first to rebel because of working conditions and wages. And they said yes. But since there's so much money going on for a narrow group of people, over 2 billion zlotys, and there's a change in the budget... [[You said that before.]] Yes, sir. How to explain now at a meeting with teachers who have similar problems, and the cost of the whole operation would be many times smaller in their case, even hard to say what... How do you explain to them that this is fair and that it has anything to do with justice at all? How am I supposed to tell them that? Just tell me so I can explain it to them, because I can't do it. [[That has nothing to do with it.]] We explain that the budget situation is what it is. The revenues are growing, but we're still living on credit and we can't spend. And here all of a sudden, there's this huge expense, and there's no problem changing the budget. This is an emergency, rare and unprecedented situation. That's what I'm gonna say. [[We're giving it to the shipyards, too.]] No, we're not. [[Let's go, let's go.]] Where, when? [[Quiet!]] If we did, it'd be okay. [[You've ruined it, and we're fixing it.]] Oh, yeah. [[Jesus, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would suggest a fairly simple answer to that kind of question. The problem is that the pension system is a complex system. I think what we were talking about here just now is that pension rights of different categories of insured persons, even if using the date of birth criterion, are differentiated by the legislator for various reasons... This is precisely for reasons related to demographic change and the need to respond to these changes. It is simply within the insured community that pension rights are differentiated. The question that the senator is asking me might be different: why did the teachers who were born before 1949 have the opportunity to benefit from retirement regardless of age and the teachers who were born after 1948 and who had not reached the required insurance period by the end of 2008 can no longer benefit from retirement regardless of age? We can talk about differences in pension arrangements for groups of insured persons I mean the miners. and solutions that concern the general pension system. Let's remember that miners' social security has its own characteristics. I think that we are talking here about people who actually belong to the defined benefit pension system. It was also an informed decision by the legislator, which was made in 2005, justified in particular or radically difficult working conditions in which miners work, so that these persons can be said to be maintained in the pension system of defined benefits. So that, as I say, the pension system is not uniform, it is differentiated. It must take into account both the specifics of the demographic situation, because it is a pay-as-you-go system based on intergenerational funding and some specificities related to the different scale of difficulties in terms of the conditions of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u196	Thank you. No further questions, I don't see anyone. Well, thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u197	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to begin by returning to the words and questions of one of my fellow Senators on the Platform, who today shows such concern for teachers. And it was enough in the previous term of office to support the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, a project that I had the pleasure of being rapporteur so that today would not be a problem. At that time, the Platform did not fully support this project. Not much, I would like to remind you of such an event that there was no money for this group, for these teachers, and they wanted to give raises to bank directors, and that was what the money was for. So that today we have a classic example that the point of view depends on the point of the seat. High Izbo, in the current catalogue of persons entitled to teacher compensation, there are still no teachers employed in practical training institutions, which I consider to be completely absurd. I don't understand how teachers can be classified in this way, degrade their value and pragmaticity. On what grounds was the instructor found not to be a teacher and therefore not entitled to compensation? Then I'd like to know who he is if he's not a teacher. Doesn't he teach like any other teacher, in this case: important practical and professional skills? In fact, I have the impression that since the petition was filed by the members of the Pedagogical Council of the Practical Training Centre, the only unclear issue that may be the problem with granting the benefit is the identification of this group. However, since we use the term "teacher" to teach the profession, he is certainly a teacher to whom the witness is due, as are all the other teachers. Otherwise, it cannot be described as discrimination and manifest injustice. And since I was authorized to represent the applicants, and I would like to remind you that this is the second time that I am an applicant and rapporteur as regards the topic of compensation for teachers, I was also in the previous term of office. And as Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, I cannot allow such gross injustice and look with calmness at how these people are ignored. Let us remember that education is not just public schools. In addition to the teaching profession, we also have instructors in the practical learning of the profession, lecturers in out-of-school educational forms, who pass on the great valuable knowledge required of certain skills, constantly developing to be creative and creative, having technical skills. The requirements for such a teacher are high, but he gets nothing in return. High Izbo, the question should be asked: why are there no qualified teachers in practical training? This is, of course, linked to the long-term marginalisation of vocational training and its negligence. But this group is still outside the scope of these benefits and feels discriminated against. The next group, so to speak, is pulled out of the Teacher's Card and left on ice as a last resort. By the way, since no one can indicate the difference between teachers from the lifelong learning centre, which includes the provision of which and teachers from the practical training centre who do not have the right to it, those who do not know the difference between CKP and CKU and between teachers and instructors should not take part in the discussion because they interfere with those substantively thinking. This can be seen in the votes on compensatory benefits. In vocational education, I know teachers of carpentry, carpentry, welding, locksmithy, who for 20 years were the least paid teachers. They gave up their struggle for equal rights and privileges because they felt powerless. The fact that the Minister of Finance claims that this project cannot be supported solely for financial reasons, only proves that the said group of teachers is entitled to this benefit. I would like to know how it is that, in addition, money for teachers who are certified for a good job money is found and that the project on the financing of educational tasks is well received and supported. Because the Ministry of Education claims that such a bonus is intended to stimulate better work for teachers, although it already causes outrage to educational unions, because solutions do not cover all teachers or raise doubts about labour inequality, discrimination, because they exclude most teachers from the potential candidates for the allowance. The effect may be different from what was intended, because the lack of such additional gratification for all will discourage some teachers and lead to misunderstandings among teachers. Some people in the teaching community will feel worse and underappreciated, as with teachers in practical training. After all, both the appointed and the certified teachers carry out the same tasks in relation to the educational institution. I would like to remind you that, in the same way, teachers of practical training in the profession working in the CKP concern the same educational criteria. In teaching young people, they pursue the same curriculum as teachers from the lifelong learning centre who are entitled to switch to compensatory benefits. High Izbo, I am not convinced that after the extension of the group entitled to compensation benefits of teachers working in practical training institutions, the number of eligible teachers will increase, although not all benefits will be received. This will be a burden on the state budget, but the allowances for qualified teachers that will involve further groups of victims and entitled to claims will not be charged to the budget. I think that following unjustified budgetary savings is not the right direction in the proper construction of the law, because the changes concerning some legislators allow discrimination against others. Dear Mr. Marshal, October is full of educational holidays.On 14 October, we celebrated National Education Day. It is a good time to celebrate such holidays, successes, but also to think about where we are going and what our goals are. Will we contribute to wise, fair decisions so that teachers of practical training can feel part of the educational community? I would very much like that, and I count on favorable votes to change the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Once again, the subject of the legislative initiative concerning the draft law amending the Act on Teacher Compensation Benefits, which aims to give teachers employed in public and non-public practical training institutions the right to teacher compensation. Under the current Compensation Act, teachers employed in practical training institutions are not entitled to compensation, but teachers employed in certain other educational establishments, including in particular continuing education institutions. In the light of the numerous considerations to date in this respect, the omission in the catalogue of persons entitled to the teacher's provision of compensation for teachers employed in practical training institutions may imply a proposal for specific discrimination between this group of teachers vis-à-vis teachers engaged in similar work, but employed in other educational establishments, in particular in continuing training institutions, which are covered by the subject-matter of the Compensation Act. Undoubtedly, it cannot be overlooked that there are many indications that teachers of practical training working in practical training centres have been wrongly omitted by law. It should be borne in mind that this group is also covered by the "Teacher's Charter" law, so they are subject to the same principles of promotion and work and are subject to supervision by the school curator. In teaching young people, they pursue the same curriculum as teachers from lifelong learning centres who are entitled to switch to compensatory benefits. High Izbo, in other words, it is difficult to support clearly and categorically that it would be unreasonable to extend the group entitled to compensation benefits to teachers from public and private practical education institutions. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u200	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have to say, I'm built by two speeches I've just heard. As for Senator Mammothov, I have been familiar with this view for a long time, but as for Senator Kaminski, who, as I recall, was the rapporteur of this bill. As you know, committees ask for rejection And who at the moment presented his view in the discussion, another... Well, that says something. I'll ask, ladies and gentlemen, a very simple question. When I listened to the speech, a very eloquent minister, especially his answer to Senator Kleina's question... Senator Kleina asked what to tell these teachers how to explain it to them. Well, the Minister has talked long and intricately about it. I must say, if Senator Klein had been here, He even remembered it, and then these teachers tried to do it again, and they'd think Senator Kleina was mocking them. Let me ask you a simple question: what would you say if miners working in mines, so to speak, active, federers, were entitled to a mining pension, and miners who work in mines in liquidation would not have this power? Well, you'd say it's open discrimination. Why did this happen? That's because the bill says so. I guess somebody just got it wrong, somebody forgot about it, or... I don't know what the grounds were. Or maybe someone just wanted to reduce the number of users to save money? And for a few years now, we've been driving around with this problem, with a really small problem, a few million zlotys a year; I'm embarrassed to talk about it at all. Indeed, in the previous Senate term 'Cause it's a senate project all the time. The parliamentary majority of the Civic Platform also listened to and rejected the proposal, so to speak. I was one of those back then. And the senator, too. Who pushed this case forward. But I wouldn't refuse my colleagues the right to insist on it today, because everyone can make a mistake and confess to it. Right now on senators mostly pregnant... Well, maybe it's not as much a duty as they have the chance to just fix that mistake. There are no major costs here or, which is the most important, simply there is no difference. We need to close this topic. It's been going on for, like, three years. [[Three or four years...]] More, I guess? [[Four.]] Four, four. [[Yes.]] Yeah, it goes on for four years. And we really hear the same arguments every time, all of us who represent the government here. It doesn't matter whether the previous one or the previous one says that the pension system is complicated. Well, we know he's complicated, but this case is simple, absolutely simple. In time, there was still a question of money, but we already said that it wasn't really about money, it was about ordinary justice. That's one thing. Secondly, this is a senate project. The senate project, if we approve it, as we know, is still going to the Sejm. Right? This case will still be discussed there. So let's not close the road in the Senate if we really... And I think most of us think that's how it's supposed to be done. That is why I really appeal to all senators, especially the PiS senators, to reject the motion to reject the project and to support it. I would also like to say I don't know how much this will convince you that I rarely, as you know, praise the Law and Justice, but in this case... [[Yet.]] Well, of course no one's perfect, so that maybe that's gonna change. But in this case, if you support this, my public praise will not be over. Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Thank you so much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u202	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda. I'm about to announce a recess... [[40 minutes.]] I'm about to announce... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh!]] I'm about to announce an hour's recess, but first, I'm gonna need your messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u203	The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Culture and Media on the examination of the applications submitted at the forty-eightth Senate meeting to the Law amending the Law will take place today, immediately after the announcement of a break in room 82. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases will take place 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u204	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 5:10 p.m. Then there will be a vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 09 to 17 minutes 10]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u205	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this issue is included in print No 614. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to submit a report to the committee, to submit a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted yesterday unanimously a draft resolution, which I recommend to the High House. The resolution would be as follows. §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Aleksandr Swede from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. §2. The Senate of the Republic of Poland elects Senator Aleksandr Swed to the Committee on Culture and Media. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. I recommend that this resolution be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. Do any of you senators want to take the floor on this? I don't see any calls. Thank you. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 Senators voted, 85 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We return to the second agenda: the act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter; it is in print No 620 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u208	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. On behalf of the Joint Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance... Following today's meeting, the joint committees request the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u209	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still wish to speak? Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Andrzej Biesiołek and Senator Leszek Piechota submitted their conclusions during the discussion. Senator Andrzej Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u210	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, I... [[Voices from the room: Microphone!]] It's on. [[Voice from the room: He's on.]] [[It's working now.]] I would ask, however, that we take account of these amendments that we have tabled, because they will make this law fairer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, supported by committees, to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 59 votes against, 26 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] As a result of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Health Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 607 A and 607 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 89 senators voted, 59 votes against, 18 against and 12 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Culture and Media, which responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject; it is in print No 603 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commissions at its meeting on 19 October considered the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on 19 October 2017 on the Law amending the Press Law and put forward the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal contained in point 3 in print No 603 Z. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur wish to speak? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, Senator Jan Żaryn and Senator Jerzy Czerwiński submitted their conclusions during the discussion. The rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media was Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Before the vote, I would like to draw the attention of the High Senate, all of your senators, to the fact that my amendment, Senator Żarinski and Senator Czerwinski, is intended to correct the obvious legislative sloppyness that has come to us from the Sejm. The text of the Act refers to the Sejm, while the Senate is completely omitted. I'm no longer getting into the details of what's going on here. The main argument against this amendment was that it formally goes beyond the scope of the amended law. However, I would like to stress that our amendment is absolutely in the field in line with the spirit of the contested law, which concerns the removal of the past system. At the time when the amended law was written, i.e. in 1984, there was no Senate. Hence, there was no Senate in the text of the Act. After the discussion, we proposed an appropriate amendment with the senators, given the situation that this might be considered a non-material offence. It is, however, a matter of obvious error. The error of the applicants who did not take this into account and the errors made in the Sejm. [[We understand.]] [[Which amendment is that?]] [[Voice from the room: 1st.]] Also... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] In addition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, the law remains in the law. Diariusz Sejmowy, who, as we know, has not existed as a periodical publishing house since 1997. Therefore, we have a law that contains contradictions and is evidence of some non-professionality in the law. That is why we have proposed our amendment. I would appeal to the senators to consider the question of voting. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] One more thing. After consulting the committee's meeting... The procedure is this: if the amendment is accepted, the Marshal of the Sejm may not put it to the vote if the legislative services of the Sejm consider the scope of the amendment to be outside the scope of the matter. Maybe, which doesn't mean he has to.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u215	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 extends the legal protection covered by the publication of the reports of the meetings of the Sejm and its bodies to the publication of the reports of the Senate and its bodies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 16 votes against, 55 against and 18 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2. The purpose of Amendment 2 is to indicate that the liability for a criminal offence to prevent authorisation relates only to the literally quoted statements. At the same time, the provision which excludes the criminality of the publication of a literally quoted expression without its authorization is deleted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 14 for, 60 against, 15 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 3 points out that the liability for an offence to prevent authorisation concerns only literally quoted statements, and clarifies the provision which excludes the criminality of unauthorized publication of certain statements. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 81 for, 2 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 85 for, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law "Press Law." We return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 604 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I would like to recommend that the Senate reject Amendments 1, 7 and 2 and adopt Amendments 3 and 6. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u217	Thank you very much, Senator. Would Senator Jan Rulewski like to speak again? [[No.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1 and 7 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments excludes the vote on Amendment 2. Amendments 1 and 7 aim to increase the annual amount of expenditure on accident prevention by gradually increasing it from 1,1% the amount of contributions due for accident insurance in 2018 to 1,5% the amount in force as of 2022. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 27 votes against, 59 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] Amendments rejected. Amendment 2 increases the annual amount of expenditure on accident prevention by setting a minimum threshold of 1,1% contributions due for accident insurance provided for in the financial plan of the Social Security Office. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 29 for, 58 against. [[Voting No 12]] Correction denied. Amendment 3 is linguistic in nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 4 is of a sequencing nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 5 is linguistic in nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 6 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 7 has already been voted out. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 605 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 608 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 86 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the multilateral Convention implementing measures of Treaty tax law aimed at preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, drawn up in Paris on 24 November 2016. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 606 A and 606 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the two committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the multilateral Convention implementing measures of Treaty tax law aimed at preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, drawn up in Paris on 24 November 2016. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007, signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions requesting the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 609 A, 609 B and 609 C. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007, signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Teacher Compensation Benefits. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are asking for the rejection of the bill; print No 188 S. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. [[Voices from the O.R.:]] [[Voices from the room: Against!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It's gonna be fun!]] Ladies and gentlemen, please report the results. Vote... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 87 senators voted, 43 for, 42 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 22]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate rejected the draft law amending the Act on Teacher Compensation Benefits and therefore concluded the proceedings in this case. We now come to the statements, ladies and gentlemen. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let me inform you that order... How many people willing to read? Two, right? I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 40th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I'm informing you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] High Izbo, I inform you that the Senate's agenda has changed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Quiet!]] The 50th Senate meeting was postponed from 15 and 16 November to 14 and 15 November. In addition, the fiftieth first Senate meeting was postponed from 29 and 30 November to 5 and 6 December. I would also like to inform you that the agenda for the next meeting, scheduled for 9 and 10 November, will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than five minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the Senator would not be possible at the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of you like to speak? [[Yeah, me.]] Yes? You're welcome, Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to start by saying that I hope I don't cross the rules of procedure here because what I have... [[We'll control the time. Five minutes, Mr. Senator. It's time to go!]] But it's not about time. The point is that we just voted on the Polish-Ukrainian readmission agreement, and I would like my statement... My statement will also be about Polish-Ukrainian matters in a sense, but I hope that I will not be here in conflict with the rules because I refer to the point that was in our order. I address my statement to three ministers, namely the Minister of Development, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Witold Waszczykowski. It so happens that I had the opportunity to cooperate in my constituency in establishing a partnership between two municipalities from my constituency and two municipalities from Ukraine. As part of the actions that these municipalities are undertaking, it was very successful, for example. exchange of young people with the participation of the Polish-Ukrainian youth exchange fund, which took place this year. At this point, I want to thank all those who work for this exchange, as well as those who, so to speak, have made such an idea that such a fund should be created. But my question is something else. That is, there is a question in the context of these contacts. Since many municipalities in my district are agricultural in nature, the Ukrainian municipalities concerned are also agricultural in nature, many of these Ukrainian municipalities want to acquire some experience in Poland precisely in the field of agriculture, as well as in all that is a small and medium-sized agricultural business, i.e. in the creation of dairy and other establishments that operate on the agri-food market. And my question to the ministers is: do we, as Polish government, as Poland, have any tools that we could help our Ukrainian partners with the development of this small agri-food industry? I am talking about the possibility of using some preferential loans, aid measures or possibly some funds that would support cooperation between Polish and Ukrainian authorities, and at the same time could work precisely to ensure that this agri-food industry can develop in our Ukrainian neighbours. If I could get a list of such tools, funds or programs from any of these ministries, I would be very obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Defence, Antoni Macierewicz. From people who are members of the Air Accident Committee investigating the Smolensk disaster, working in the so-called. Miller's committee as members or experts, I have been informed of the decisions of your department It's possible that you've made your own decisions, too. On the use of illegal and immoral practices in determining their further business path. Namely a few of them First of all, this concerns officers, after the dissolution of Miller's commission, as well as the failure to accept the working conditions of your newly appointed team to investigate the causes of the Smolensk disaster, addressed to military units which had no connection with the services previously performed, often far from their usual place of residence. The personal decisions were based on the loss of social trust and other needs of the Armed Forces. An administrative transfer procedure with immediate feasibility has been applied to a group of officers. They were either fired or transferred from work, even from the State Institute for Air Accident Investigation in Poznań. The circumstances of the case show that the repercussions applied to them are in retaliation for the substantive work in Miller's committee. This entails their refusal to authorize decisions contrary to their knowledge and experience during your recruitment to the newly appointed team. Some of them escaped sanctions through forced retirement. Their current professional characteristics point to high professional and moral qualities. In ethical terms, your decisions are regarded as humiliation, and your separation from the uniform as an undeserved punishment. Undoubtedly, their usefulness for military service was lost with loss to the Republic. Minister, we are colleagues from the anti-communist opposition. I cannot go against these practices indifferently, because in the past I was relegated from the Military Technical Academy, for political reasons of course, and was sent to a penal unit with a wolf ticket. I thought it was a distant and unique past. However, as a man of good faith, I look forward to hearing from the Minister about the fate of the former members of Miller's committee. And if the charges in question were confirmed, I would expect even such a reaction as you presented in 1976 and 1977 to the persecuted workers of Ursus and Radom.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u221	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am directing my statement to the Marshal of the Sejm. Well, ladies and gentlemen, your time, good a few months ago, at the initiative of our House, we adopted a very expected amendment to the Act on Benefits for those who fought for the independent existence of the Polish state. We have introduced a change in that they will be entitled to compensation not only for the consequences of the execution of the judgment but also for the effects of the judgment. What's going on? It turns out that law has not yet seen the light of day in the Seym. Hence my appeal to the Marshal of the Sejm to give this course, because people are really looking forward to this bill. These are often older people, often at the end of their lives, and for purely humanitarian reasons it would be appropriate for us to finally adopt this law. Hence my appeal to the Marshal of the Sejm, and I think that the Marshal of the Senate will also be involved in the finalization of this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-19-senat-48-2.u223	Thank you very much. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the forty-eightth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office in room 255. Forty-eightth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 17 minutes 42]]
