ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to inform you that after considering point eight, i.e. the law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers, we will proceed with the examination of point 10, i.e. Act on amending the Security Act on mass events, and then we will consider point nine. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in respect of certain public registers. The text of the Act is contained in print No 457 and the report of the Commission In print No 457 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u2	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Commission bowed to a law that introduces changes to enable citizens to deal with a number of public administration issues through ICT systems. The committee meeting well held by your president was brief. No requests have been made. After a brief explanation of the minister present here, the senators unanimously recommend that you adopt the proposed law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Now the senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I can't see and I can't hear. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitization, Minister Zagórski, was authorized to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We welcome the Minister very warmly. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Briefly. The whole project consists of 2 parts. One part concerns the possibility for citizens to check the number of detention points under the CEPiK system and the other part concerns the waiver of the need to provide certificates in the event of an application for education and care. Thank you very much to the committee for such a recommendation with regard to this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Wait here a minute. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the Minister relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would like to inform you that Senator Maciej Łuczak has made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on security of mass events. The text of the Act is contained in print No 458 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 458 A and 458 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u6	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! I am very pleased to be able to present a report by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the Law on the Security of Mass Events adopted by the Sejm on 23 March 2017. The aim of this law is to reduce the formal requirements for the purchase of tickets and entry to stadiums of children and young people participating in the finals of the European Junior Championship in UEFA Euro U21 Poland 2017. The Act will exclude the application of Article to persons participating in these matches. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 law on security of mass events, which regulate the issue of so-called. personalized tickets. In the case of tickets to these matches on the ticket, only the number of the place to which it relates will be shown and, if appropriate, additional details, e.g. sector or grandstand number and graphic representation of the stadium structure. The Sejm committees presented a report on 21 March 2017 and recommended the adoption of the bill as proposed in the draft. No amendments were tabled at second reading and a third reading was immediately started. Everyone voted unanimously in favour of this bill in the Seym. During the meeting of our committee, all the senators present were in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, President Piotr Ziientarski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll actually support the arguments that just came up. Indeed, this law did not raise the slightest doubts either in the Sejm or with us in the Senate commission. Ten senators, unanimously, voted in favour of this bill. I just want to remind you that a similar law was adopted on the occasion of Euro 2012 and it worked out. Although the formal requirements have been limited, safety has been preserved, and it seems that Euro 2012, i.e., I would say, the adult championship, arouses more emotions than the youth games, although there is of course a great interest in youth games. We therefore believe that solutions that have been successful should also be adopted in the case of Euro 2017 youth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Voice from the gym: There is no Minister. We have to wait.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't hear any calls. I'm declaring a four-minute technical recess until 9.13 a.m. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 09 to 9 minutes 19]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, then we will now move on to the next point, and then we will return to this point, and the Minister will wait for us later. We proceed to the ninth item of the agenda. And then we'll go back to the previous point of the law on amending the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance and the Act on amending the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance. The text of the Act is contained in print No 459 and the report of the Commission In print No 459 A. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The two committees were held on 28 March 2017. After a brief, very brief discussion, the two committees adopted a draft resolution and directed it to the High House to adopt a law without amendment. And the High Senate is ready to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u11	Thank you very much. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Jack Bogucki. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the government, but above all on behalf of Polish farmers, I would like to thank you for working on this important bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u13	Thank you very much. The senators may now ask the Minister questions. You're welcome, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! This question does not actually concern an amendment, but concerns the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance. I'm talking about art. 10c paragraph. 4 point 2. I'll tell you what's going on. It is the liability of the insurance undertaking with regard to compulsory crop insurance and the point is that point 2 states that the liability of the undertaking in the event of flooding, drought, hail, spring frosts starts 14 days after the conclusion of the insurance contract. Farmers asked me why this deadline is so long, 14 days, why, for example. Not 7 days old, they've insisted that it be reduced to 7 days. Because in other cases the liability begins on the day following the conclusion of the insurance contract, and here we have such a long period: 14 days from the moment of insurance. What is the reason for this, and do you think that the proposed change would be in the right direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u15	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u16	Mr Senator, these provisions are the result of a compromise on the main interests of insurance in this area, the interests of farmers and the availability of insurance and the willingness of insurance companies to submit offers. Unfortunately, until last year we had only 3 companies of dozens of market operators who were interested in the offer in this area for agriculture. This year the situation has improved because there are already 5 companies, but it is a very difficult insurance market, very unstable. It is enough to mention that in 2015 damages of less than 9 million were paid for the negative effects of the winter, and in 2016 they were already 434 million. Over several years the system has been operating since 2012, the compensation amounted to 1 billion 965 million, while the contributions, together with the State's budget subsidies, had to be increased by 1 billion 827 million, i.e. insurance companies to the system. Of course, we will examine, because there is a team at the Ministry of Agriculture in which both representatives participate. PIU, as well as insurance companies operating in the agricultural market, but also farmers... We will try to analyze it, but we must remember that it is a specific insurance and it must take some time to assess whether the loss is really the result of weather, various random events, or even the result of inappropriate agrotechnics. But, of course, we will examine this conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u18	Minister, I have two questions. The first is indirectly linked to the amount of the aid. In earlier years, the maximum contribution, which generated losses, as the Minister himself mentioned, was 2% and for this reason farmers paid 35% from 2%, which was, how easily to calculate, 0.6% I'm counting on it. Now that these rates have increased, when insurers have also started to gradually raise their rates, in fact what the farmer is going to pay today has also increased three times; so I am now averaged. Minister, my question is as follows. Did you not think to increase this subsidy limit from 65% e.g. 85% to compensate farmers for this kind of loss? They point out that three times or sometimes even four times the increase in tariffs in net terms for them is difficult to accept, because they simply cannot afford it. That's the first question. And second question. The bill, which we are considering here, is a two-way approach: if the insurer gives a higher rate than that laid down in the law, the payment to this rate will be limited, and if it gives a lower rate, then the other way will be settled, so that the Treasury is not a loss. Please tell me whether insurers rather offer premiums exceeding these maximum levels, maintain them in this maximum, or if there is a chance for cheaper insurance. What is your experience in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u19	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u20	Indeed, as a result of the losses, but not only in 2016 I was talking about the consequences of the winter... In 2015, we had a drought that affected agriculture very much. In turn, in 2012 losses were significantly higher than income from contributions, more than twice as high. This means that insurance companies are forced to adjust the offer to the operating costs of the system. In addition, the law obliges companies not to subsidise any insurance segment in the longer term. For this reason, there is this increase in 2017. Already in the second half of 2016 we saw an increase in rates. Unfortunately, we can't exceed 65%. ...let me remind you that we raised this level from 50% to 65% last year. This is the maximum ceiling for public aid allowed by EU law, and we are benefiting from this maximum ceiling. The thresholds we've introduced... Of course, they are increased in relation to the existing ones, because so far they have been thresholds of 3.5%, 5% or 6% . Depending on the insurance segment. Now we've introduced 9%, 12%. and 15% but this concerns the insurance package. We wanted insurance to be package, so it covered all the 10 risks that farming could pose. This should further diversify the risk of loss. Of course, we allowed the possibility of insurance against individual risks, but without exceeding the sum of the package. Turns out that the insurance companies after processing... In some parts of Poland, in some agricultural insurance segments none of the insurance companies would be able to offer insurance to farmers. That is why we have allowed the risk of drought and winter effects to be excluded from the grant settlement algorithm. The idea was simply to give farmers an offer with the possibility of State aid. Of course, without payment, such an offer would also be possible, but then the farmer would pay 100% stakes. It is very diverse, it depends on the type of cultivation and on the area of Poland: the most harmful are fruit crops in areas where hail is present; the most harmful are the effects of winters, even in the case of rape; the most harmful are crops in small enclaves of Poland, fortunately in small areas where the risk of drought is for years. The risk of drought occurs throughout the country, of course, but there are enclaves where this risk is increased. And there, unfortunately, the offers of insurance companies are higher than those of 9%, 12% and 15% for Class IV or lower, V or VI. This team is working on a target model of the insurance system. We want to make this insurance relatively cheap, relatively common, and thus accessible to farmers, and with a maximum payment, 65%, from the state budget. I am convinced that in this six-month period, we will present to Parliament an appropriate solution that will allow more at the level of own reinsurance... at the level of mutual insurance farmers to join insurance and actually have an achievable rate. Well, it's important to remember that in the case of this 90% threshold, the farmer pays less than 3.5%. the rates, the remainder are paid by the State budget. So, after all, this insurance is highly subsidised. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u21	Thank you very much. I'm asking you a question. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u22	Just a supplementary question. Minister, this year the planned amount of aid, reserved in the budget, has increased significantly. Could I get information on what it's like to use that amount? Because each of the insurers has to make a separate agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture. These insurers are, as you said, five, and they made contracts for some amounts. Could I have some information on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u23	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u24	Currently we have signed contracts with insurance companies for less than PLN 400 million grants. But of course every year it was so that then it was possible to annex. 2016 was the first year in which the grant was used in its entirety. Although it was only PLN 200 million, it was used in its entirety. And in the autumn insurance period there was no possibility of insurance with subsidies. It should also be borne in mind that the thresholds were lower last year and therefore excluded the possibility of access to insurance with a surcharge for many farmers. Insurance is not yet in place. During the spring period there are 2 types of insurance: for Jare crops, which will be insured after sowing, when there is time, i.e. in April and May, and for long-term or winter crops, even from the effects of spring frosts. They're insured in April. That is why the Act was so urgent that it could function already with regard to these insurances.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u25	Thank you very much. Questions, please. There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on security of mass events. The draft law was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to Minister Jarosław Zieliński. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to say very briefly that this committee's draft law on amending the law on security of mass events was prepared at the request of the Polish Football Association and is intended to introduce, as you know, a temporary suspension of the obligation to place on tickets the entry to the Euro 2017 youth football championships, which will take place between 16 and 30 June 2017 in 6 Polish cities, personal data of the fan. Because normally on tickets personal data are entered: name, surname, PESEL or identity card number. The point is that in the case of youth championships, where the interest of fans is much smaller and the threats are lower, allow larger groups of fans to participate in games, especially other than the final match. Because in the case of the final match in Krakow, 30 June, there will certainly be more interest than for the others. As has already been said, it is certainly important to promote and promote sport, football. It is better, in short, that young people participate in these games and have positive emotions than e.g. She was sitting by the computers. Right? We assessed together, and the police, and the MMA, that there are no significant risks that would be greater with such an approach to this issue, all the more so since the 2012 adult European Championship Rule. 15 in part of the paragraph. 1 and 2 were suspended and did not have any negative consequences. All the more reason to assume that in the case of the youth championships this threat will not occur either. Which does not mean, of course, that the security services do not need to watch over security during these championships in a special way, because the world is not safe, there are terrorist threats, we are aware of that. Besides, we are also in contact with the Polish Football Association in this matter. It is worth knowing that tickets sold abroad also do not have those elements identifying a person, so we are still dealing with some inequality. But we will be particularly interested in how you can recognize the dangers associated with people coming to Poland for these matches, of course also among other fans. I repeat, it seems that there is no increased threat, there will be no increased risk of suspension of this provision, so we decided... But there's no official government position either, and I want to be clear. As a resort, we considered that we could agree to this proposal, to the draft Parliamentary Committee, and there is no objection on the part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to adopt this provision. He will return and become effective, in accordance with the law, just after the end of these games, so on 31 June the rule of this article will return and continue to apply. During the meeting of one of the Senate committees, the question was asked by Senator Zarin whether it would be a permanent practice to suspend this provision for subsequent sports events. I hope not, or it would have to be repealed at all. He is, will be in force, only is suspended for a specified period of time in the bill. But whenever such an initiative arises, the impact must also be assessed, where possible anticipated, and safety issues will always be the most important. I would also like to remind you that tickets that do not have those identification elements will be valid with the identity document and that the organizer's services will be able to And I hope that they will check in, at least selected persons who will raise suspicions at the entrance to the games. So, Mr. Marshal, the Senate, it seems that this law is uncontroversial, no one has raised objections, no objections, no questions that would be difficult to answer, which would cause some anxiety or a sense of danger. Therefore, it seems that it should simply be praised.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u27	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u28	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I asked this question at the committee meeting, it is not directly related to the subject of the amendment, in principle excluding, as far as possible, the proper exclusion... All the more reason why what the Minister said gave me more to think about. I am referring to the provision of the original law, where it is referred to the sale of a ticket or other document entitled to stay at football matches, on which the data is placed. A ticket to a football game is an important document confirming an identity, isn't it? And I'm gonna allow myself to bring up this situation, not hypothetical at all. Me going to a football game with my six-year-old daughter... I said no shut-off. I'm not talking about the subject of the whole novel, I'm talking about the general principle. There's no age exemption here. A child of untrained age does not have an identity card because there is no school ID. Let's just say school-aged kids already have school IDs. There is no requirement for younger children to have such a document. And from the formal point of view, as the Minister said, at least part of it, so to speak, the viewers will be checked and verified. If anybody wants to check my kid's formality, do I have to have an identity card for a 6-year-old kid to come in with him as a parent to the game? And I would ask for an answer, if not in oral form, in writing. If I say so, there is a requirement, then maybe we could actually think about changing it in some reasonable way so that there wouldn't be such a requirement in the case of younger children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u29	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u30	No one has reported such problems so far, so there was also no further reflection that would lead to possible ideas for the amendment of the provisions of this law. It's not. the subject of this amendment, of course. Therefore, we are going a little out of the area of what is gathering us here today, but I think it might be worth considering. If that's a problem, I don't think it's a big problem. But the senator is reporting this issue, and we'll think about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u31	Thank you very much. No further questions. [[Voice from the room: Answer for Senator Grabowski in writing...]] Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We begin to consider item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 448 and the report "Print No. 448 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I took part in the honour of presenting the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to the State on behalf of the Legislative Commission and the applicants on the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki. The Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 30th anniversary of the death of the Servant of God Franciszek Blaclinicki, a prominent priest of the Polish Church, a man of strong faith and strong spirit wishes to commemorate his person. Father Franciszek Blaclinicki was the founder and father of the Spiritual Movement of Light-Life, one of the evangelizing pastoral movements of the Church's renewal, based on the teaching of the Second Vatican Council, and the community of consecrated life Institute of the Immaculate Mother of the Church. During World War II he fought against the Nazi invader, was arrested and sentenced to death; he was a prisoner of the German concentration camp KL Auschwitz. After the war and his conversion, he joined the seminary. He was the creator of the Crusade of Abstinence; he founded the sobriety movement of the Crusade of Human Liberation. He founded the Movement of Light-Life in which hundreds of thousands of young people grew up in the years of the Polish People's Republic. He defended Polish youth from the effects of imposed materialistic ideology, transformed and still transformed the lives of many Polish Catholics Children, young people, families, as well as clerics, priests and consecrated persons. After the war, he was repeatedly repressed by the communist authorities, arrested, and in the last years of his life. ..on emigration.. Surveillanced by an intelligence agent of the Polish People's Republic. The circumstances of his sudden death have not yet been fully explained. The consistent faith and example of Father Blaclinicki's spiritual life were a great inspiration for people who had the opportunity to meet him or participate in oasis conventions. All his works contributed to shaping the face of the contemporary Polish Church and Catholicism. High Izbo, the Legislative Commission unanimously adopted this resolution. I know that there are many people in this room who have come into contact with priest Blaclinicki, who have cooperated with priest Blaclinicki, who worked in the oasis movement. I think if they do, they'll be able to share their comments and their memories with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u33	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jan Hamerski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First the Sejm, and today the Senate adopts a resolution on the 30th anniversary of the death of the Servant of God, Father Francis Blaclinicki, as we wrote in the resolution, a prominent priest, a man of strong faith and strong spirit, the founder of the Light-Life Movement, the creator of the sobriety movement under the name of the Crusade of Human Liberation, the creator of the Christian Service for the Liberation of Nations, and the founder of the religious community of the women of the Institute of Immaculate Mother of the Church. In the resolution we stress that Father Blaclinicki, in the years of the Polish People's Republic, defended Polish youth from the consequences of the imposed materialistic ideology, transformed and still transformed the lives of many Polish Catholics Children, young people, families, as well as clerics, priests and consecrated persons. As a student of the Catholic University of Lublin, I found myself in a very close circle of influence of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki I was even his driver for a while as a student of KUL Therefore, with all conviction I can say that like priests are sort of sent down by God's providence for difficult times. Their many talents, qualities of mind and heart, some particular charism, are proof of this, which completely conveys matters of apostolicity and evangelization. It has already been said here that Franciszek Blaclinicki was convinced of his election in the concentration camp in Oświęcim, where he was sent for conspiracy activities. He stayed there, bearing number 1201, for 14 months, of which nine months in the penal company, in block 13, and a month in the bunker where Father Maximilian Kolbe dies later. When he was taken to prison in Katowice in 1941, and sentenced to death by beheading, he should be said to have been. Double pardoned by a merciful God. Twice because the death sentence was not executed, and he also received the gift of faith as if in his soul, as he wrote, someone had twisted the electrical contact so that it was flooded with supernatural light. Marvelously saved, he became a priest after the war. In 1957 he organized the famous Crusade of Abstinence. And it must be said very quickly, because in almost two years, over a hundred thousand armies have vowed total abstinence as a gift of the freedom of the children of God, Mary's people going against the current of bad customs. There is such a slogan of Father Blaclinicki: by the abstinence of many to sobriety of all. The Communists, drinking the nation, destroyed the Crusade and sentenced its creator to prison. After leaving prison, there were studies at the Catholic University of Lublin, Bachelor's degree, PhD, and habilitation, but these degrees did not become degrees of scientific career, but resulted from the internal need to confront some vision of the Church with the situation of pastoral ministry in Poland. And this has resulted in the emergence of an oasis movement, which literally shocked Polish pastoral ministry, the Polish Church. This post-storal liturgical and pastoral enthusiasm of the professor and, as we called him then, Father Francis embraced many theologians, priests, bishops and, above all, tens of thousands of young people. I remember from these years his words, that the Church is like a living organism, blood circulating in it, nourishes and breathes, lives by being involved in this internal work of all its particles, from bishops and priests to literally, as he said, babes. The whole body, according to the gifts and opportunities received, strengthens and builds love in the Church. Certificate, service and liturgy These 3 activities consisted of this living Church. Not all of those responsible for the Church at that time realized that this enthusiasm, and sometimes radicalism, had all the characteristics of rape in God's Kingdom. Of course, they immediately met with the state authorities on the Father Blaclinicki, seeing that Father Blaclinicki openly and openly concentrated in the centre of Kościenek and Lublin a thread of a huge movement in which the spirit of religious renewal was deeply connected with the spirit of opposing everything that insults human dignity, which could threaten the existence of the Polish people. Despite harassment, intimidation and fines, power could not be suppressed. During this time, Cardinal Karol Wojtyla became a great advocate of movement. On December 10, 1981, Father Blaclinicki traveled through Germany to Rome to organize there the International Centre for the Movement of Light and Life. The declaration of martial law made it impossible for him to return to his country, and since 1982 in Germany, he has developed a retreat and formation centre in Carlsberg, Marianum, founded the International Centre for the Evangelization of Light-Life, and established the Christian Service for the Liberation of Nations, which organized symposiums, seminars, meetings of representatives of various nations and particularly well-known Marches of the Liberation of Nations. I remember that at that time Carlsberg was actually the center of dissidents' meetings from almost all communist countries. The stay in Carlsberg, although extremely creative, was also an hour of darkness for Father Blaclinicki, as he wrote in his records, a mystical crucifixion. It is interesting that this hero of faith experienced to the end a fear of what he believed, whether he had made his life a perfect gift to God or loved as much as he had received the knowledge of love. Such records are left by the saints, of course, not by the records themselves, as we know, but also by the great, important works in which their presence, we must say, continues to this day. I will say that the circumstances of the sudden death of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki have not yet been fully explained. True, there is no evidence that he was poisoned, but he certainly died shortly after he found out that his coworkers in Carlsberg were two security agents. I am not surprised that, since he broke the Communist monopoly on the upbringing of young people, the authorities directed a fight against him on many levels: administrative, propaganda, and just operational, with the use of secret police forces. Therefore, I would like to give a few sentences to the marriage of the Gontars, SB agents, who made contact with the Blaclinicki priest in 1984 and supposedly devoted themselves completely to working for oazs, for Father Blaclinicki, becoming actually his closest collaborators. They were about to enter the Chadeca International Government. They were expected to be used in an intelligence game against the Americans. They were to accept an offer to cooperate with the CIA or other Western services. All this proves how important their mission in Carlsberg was to the authorities of the Polish People's Republic. Their true role was learned by Father Blaclinicki in February 1987 thanks to the Fighting Solidarity activist who managed to infiltrate the archives of the Security Service in Łódź. The headquarters in Warsaw warned the agents about their threat. On February 27th, a conversation took place between Father Blaclinicki and the Gontarczyk in the printery, and the agitated priest returned to his place. After dinner, his agony began. Even then it was noted that his death was accompanied by strange symptoms, namely from his mouth abundant foam, foamed secretion, which was wiped with lignin. This immediately led to the suspicion that death might have been caused by poisoning. The Gontars threatened by German counterintelligence then fled through Yugoslavia and Hungary to the country. In 2005, the Council The Branch Crimes Investigation Commission against the Polish Nationals in Katowice initiated an investigation into the presumption that Father Blaclinicki had been poisoned. Unfortunately, the evidence of guilt could not be established. To conclude, I will only say that now the Movement of Light-Life is one of the renewal movements of the Church in the spirit of the Second Vatican Council. It gathers people of all ages and vocations. Through the proper formation of individual groups of children, young people, families, the movement wants to raise mature Christians and serve the restoration of the Church by transforming the parish into communities. Their founder, Father Franciszek Blaclinicki, the Servant of God, awaits the elevation to the altars. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u35	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a very good initiative that we will celebrate the 30th anniversary of the death of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki. It was an extremely well-deserved figure for the history of the Church, for the history of Poland, a figure which today may be somewhat forgotten, but which needs to be reminded for a very simple reason. Namely, the work which Father Franciszek Blaclinicki undertook, his heroic attitude of life, his accomplishments put him among outstanding representatives of the Church in Poland and also of the universal Church. The proof of this is the ongoing beatification process, which is already at a fairly advanced stage, because, as we know, Father Blaclinicki already has the title of the Servant of God, so this process follows. What was the phenomenon of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki? As for the generation from which he came, it was the generation of Columbus. He was born in 1921. As a mature young boy, he experienced World War II and expressed his heroic patriotic attitude during World War II. He had the opportunity to encounter the first totalitarianism, which then touched Poland, with German Hitlerism. In the post-war period he had the opportunity to learn about the second totalitarianism, which on Polish lands was installed with the help of Soviet bayonets, namely Bolshevik communism or, as it was said, socialism. And here the role of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki is remarkable in this dimension, because he has shown such a Christian attitude in his actions, a positive attitude. The Light-Life Movement, by which, as it is estimated... Estimated According to both ecclesiastical sources and by the sources of former special services of Peerelów, about 1 million 700 thousand young people, young girls and boys have passed through the Light-Life Movement. This shows the scale and phenomenon of this movement, which developed in conditions when in an administrative manner, the whole apparatus of the then state and party, was fought against the Catholic Church. This shows its extraordinary relevance, the ability to gain the hearts of young people, to indicate an alternative to the communist, atheistic ideology prevailing at the time. Under these circumstances, he was able to turn to young people. And that is why the figure of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki is a figure that deserves to be commemorated. In addition, it is also included in the catalogue of heroic history of the Church in Poland during the communist period. Contrary to appearances, this area of our national history is not fully recognized. We are still dealing with the emergence of new sources, with the sharing of materials produced by the former services of oppression from the times of the Polish People's Republic. Thus, this period still requires very deep and thorough historical studies to fully demonstrate the role of the Catholic Church and the prominent representatives of the Catholic Church's clergy, but not only, because also other Christian churches and religious unions at this very difficult moment of our national history. I am very pleased that today we are adopting this resolution, which will certainly help to remind this outstanding figure, this outstanding Pole and outstanding priest. I will also refer to what Senator Ryszka was talking about, to the mysterious, not to say mysterious and unclear. The circumstances of the unexpected death of Father Blaclinicki in Carlsberg. I would like to quote at the end of my speech the opinion of the researcher, historian, Dr Grajewski, Andrzej Grajewski, who asked a journalist in one of the interviews: Do you think we will know the truth about this? There was no autopsy, no postmortem, or when the priest's body was transferred from Carlsberg to Krościnek. The beatification process is underway, which is at an advanced stage. Only the Vatican can decide to exhume the body. However, I doubt that any traces of possible poisoning remain in the body of Fr. Balnicki. In the absence of evidence, the investigation of the Institute of National Remembrance in this case, which I requested as chairman of the IPN College, was terminated. The positive effect of these actions was that Ms Jolanta Gontarczyk ceased to perform public functions, where she acted as an important activist in the feminist environment at SLD. So I am glad that this resolution will be adopted. And yet I hope that, thanks to the modern development of medicine, forensic medicine, perhaps someday we will know, if possible, the circumstances of this mysterious death, which would put in the new context the life and activities of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u37	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to speak to Senator Locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I did not study the life story of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki. I'm doing a little spontaneous here, because I realized that the two unfailing events in my life are very much connected to this character. First of all, I met my beloved wife at an oasis camp, and second of all, on this occasion I also joined the Crusade of Human Liberation. This task, which my wife and I then undertook, seemed desperate and a little immature, but we managed to fulfill it all our life, because this commitment is lifelong. Although in conversations with people I have often faced the idea that it makes social life more difficult, I mean, for example. organizing non-alcoholic weddings, relations at work and working in the local government, I can testify with my own life that it is actually the other way around. I observe many very good things that happen because of such a testimony. And I wouldn't have done it if it wasn't for the program prepared by the Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki, if it weren't for this idea. So that I certify that his work did not end with his death, but continues until today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This resolution, one of many, could be a vote. I think it would even meet your expectations because of the tight agenda, but I think that this figure actually In fact, the first sentence speaks of homage. It requires more than just raising your hand, it requires an appearance, even if only a short but built-up... Thank you, Senator Ryszka, for the deep resume of Fr. Balnicki, who I'll be honest with you. I didn't really know him. I must confirm from this tribune, from this place, that certainly the influence of Fr. Blaclinicki was also seen in the recent times, just in the times of Solidarity, when paths of different people intersected in Poland, whether in the country or in emigration. These people confirmed that they were working thanks to Fr. Balnicek and that they were struggling with their own weaknesses as part of the oasis movement. And so I would like to confirm the fact noted in the last sentence, which says that his works contributed to shaping the face of the contemporary Polish Church and Catholicism. I think that this resolution, like any such resolution, could be extended by a thread in which we would confirm that during the fight against two totalitarians there were natural relationships between ordinary people, priests In particular, the Catholic Church and intellectuals, and that as a result of these natural relationships, which had no organized formula, caused us to talk today about the free face of the Republic of Poland. I do not wish to violate the adopted order of work on this resolution, but please, Mr Marshal, point out that there is one sentence missing here: it is and will remain in our memory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. I'm ordering a recess until 11:40. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 10 to 13 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u42	High Izbo, resume. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Resume the session! Ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting for the last time today before Easter, so I would like to wish you a pleasant, healthy, happy Christmas. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been putting you here lately, but not all of them were present... I would like to present to all the senators, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, all the employees of the Senate, to those who work with us, to the good wishes of the blessed Holy Night. May these holidays, which always strengthen us, also strengthen us in the political spirit, so that after these holidays, in the spirit of retreats, we may also be strengthened in the political spirit. Some of us are doing this, and the message of which comes to us all, who worked on matters of Poland, Poles in a fair, reliable way, with full devotion and dedication. I also wish you such a really good Christmas, blessed and family. Because this rest, this release, is very, very much needed for all of us. Last Christmas was different because it was Christmas, but it was also politically different. I hope this Christmas brings us a good opening for Poland. I wish you all the best. - Okay. - Okay, okay, okay, okay, Good, blessed holidays of the Great Night! Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I resume my deliberations, ladies and gentlemen, for the second time, as it were. Dear Senators, the Committee on Family, Senior Policy and Social Policy announces the fourth edition of the competition. I encourage all senators whose family and paternity matters are at their heart to join in this competition in their electoral districts. Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, there was a proposal that in the future edition it should be a letter not only to Dad, but also to Grandpa. The invitation along with the occasional publication and information about the competition can be found on the desktops. We return to the examination of the item of the first agenda: the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. A meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 443 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Fedorovich, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I kindly inform you that the committee at its meeting on 30 March 2017 after considering the proposals submitted during the debate supported the work on the Act on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and supported the conclusions contained in paragraphs 3, 7, 10, 20 and 21. In addition, I inform you that on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the following applicants have amended their conclusions: Senator Jan Żaryn, point 3 of the table of applications, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, point 10 of the table of applications. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the [[The Senate.]] [[Voices from the Senate.]] The Senate. [[Okay, okay. Leave him alone.]] ...Senator Jan Żaryn, point 11 of the table of proposals, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, point 12 of the table of proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? The conclusions were made by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Jan Żaryn, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Piotr Zientarski. Do the senators want to speak? No. I would remind you that the following applicants, as Mr. Senator said a moment ago, withdrew their conclusions: Mr. Senator Jan Żaryn, paragraph 11, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, paragraph 12. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment No 1 modifies the name of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, deleting the word "National." Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 32 for, 49 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] Amendment 1 was rejected. Amendment No 2 modifies the name of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, stressing that it is the anniversary of regaining independence by the Republic of Poland, not the independence of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 3 for, 85 against. [[Voting No 3]] The amendment was rejected. Amendments 3 and 21 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 4 and 22. Amendments 3 and 21 are voted on together. The current text of the article. 14 they move to the recitals and extend the catalogue of the listed figures about Ignacy Daszyński, as well as the generalization of the Polish Army and the representatives of the clergy. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 83 for, 3 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on Amendments 5 and 18. We will vote on these amendments together. These amendments clearly prejudice the incidental nature of the Act and provide that the National Independence Recoveries Committee operates between 2017 and 2018 and not, as laid down by the Act, in the years 2017 and 2021. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 32 for, 54 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] The amendments were rejected. Now, amendments 6 and 19. No, 'cause I'm... [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes, yes.]] Yes. Amendments 6 and 19 clearly prejudice the incidental nature of the Act and provide that the National Independence Recoveries Committee operates between 2017 and 2022 and not, as the Act provides, in the years 2017 and 2021. Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 2 for, 73 against. [[Voting No 6]] Both amendments were rejected. Amendments 7 and 20 should be voted on together. They clearly prejudice the incidental nature of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendments 8, 14 and 16 will be voted together. They shall assume that representatives of the entities referred to in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 laws shall be set up in a committee with the agreement of those entities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 30 for, 49 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] These amendments, namely Nos 8, 14 and 16, were rejected. Amendment 9 to the catalogue of entities in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3th Act adds representatives of local government. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] We are now voting on Amendment 10, which is to the catalogue of entities in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3th Act adds representatives of Polonia. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 80 senators voted, 33 for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[They voted against?]] [[Against Polonia?]] [[General Haller dismissed...]] Amendment 11 in the catalogue of Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 laws... [[Voice out of the O.R.: Retreated.]] Withdrawn. [[Voice from the room: No. 12, too.]] Amendment No... [[Voice from the room: No 13.]] [[Mr. Marshal, the motion...]] [[There's no...]] [[Formal conclusion...]] [[But there's a vote!]] But we're voting now... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, I think you've made a mistake...]] No... About what? Yeah, I'm listening. What's the point? [[Mr. Marshal, see if you've mistaken the description of the accompanying...]] [[Exactly.]] [[... Amendments 9 and 10, because these amendments sounded the other way around...]] [[But you voted...]] [[But we voted, you can't...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Amendment No... [[Voice from the room: I'll explain...]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: I will explain this situation.]] Oh, you gonna explain? [[Error...]] [[The voice from the hall: I will explain, because the opposite was voted out on the committee...]] Oh, there was a vote the other way around... From the information I have, it appears that they were voted in reverse on the committee, but I read it well. [[Good!]] No. 9 Local Government, No. 10 Polonia. [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] So nothing here... Yeah, I guess I'd have a hard time making a mistake. [[It's correct.]] [[Correct.]] Correct. [[Correct.]] [[Good.]] Everyone knows what they voted on, right? [[Yes.]] Well, that's good, so there's no resummation. [[Yes, sir.]] There is no such conclusion. Now Amendment 13... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...Nos 13 and 15. Both amendments will be voted together. They assume that the committee will also consist of one representative appointed by the Polish Cities Association, the Union of Powiatów, the Union of Voivodships, cultural and scientific environments, social organisations and national minorities and three representatives designated by Polish organizations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 30 for, 54 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Amendments 13 and 15 were rejected. Amendment 17 indicates that the President of the Republic of Poland invites representatives of the States in support of regaining independence by the Republic of Poland to attend the meetings of the Committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 29 for, 55 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 23 indicates the limits of expenditure from the State budget for the performance of public finance tasks under this Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, we're still voting. Some senators vote very slowly. Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 26 for, 51 against, 4 abstained. [[Voting No 13]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome to apply... I'm asking for a vote, and I'm asking for the results. I'll give you the results. 88 senators voted, 67 for, 1 against, 20 abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] We return to the second agenda: Act amending the Act... [[Voice from the Chamber: Please read again that in the light of the results of the vote...]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the National Obstetrics of the 100th Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland. We would like to return to the second agenda: the Law amending the Law of. Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 439 Z. I would like to ask Senator Adam Gazwada to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I present a report from the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. The Commissions at its meeting on 30 March 2017 considered the conclusions made during the debate on 29 March 2017 on the Law amending the Law Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u46	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicant want to speak again: Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Adam Gawada and Senator Marek Martynowski? [[Voice from the Chamber: Senator Zientarski as rapporteur for the minority.]] Oh, now? I'll have that. I would very much like to ask Senator Piotr Ziientarski, rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to encourage the support of all amendments, because the remaining amendments, which have not been supported by the committee, are not substantively contrary to the provisions of the law and have been supported by the Legislative Office and better reflect the meaning of the law. So there is no substantive dispute, and the support of all amendments will raise the level and strengthen the clarity of this law. Thank you very much. [[You convinced me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u48	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 deletes the provision which repeats the legal standard expressed in another provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 31 for, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 limits the number of persons who may carry out mediation with the parties and bodies of the proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 3 gives the provision the appropriate grammatical form. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We're giving you the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 4 amends the way in which the obligation to inform the party of the amount of the fees is determined. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 38 for, 47 against. [[Voting No 18]] Correction denied. Amendment 5 stresses that it is the legislator, not the body, who decides to choose a form of silence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Fourty-four senators voted, 29 for, 54 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 19]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 6 makes it clear which deadline it refers to. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted against, 31 votes against, 53 votes against. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 5 corrects the wrongly formulated reference... [[Voices from the room: Amendment 7.]] Amendment 7... well, I said wrong. Amendment 7 improves the erroneously formulated reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 allows the application of the general administrative procedure when a party invokes new circumstances in a simplified procedure initiated using the form. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 9 makes it clear which decision they refer to. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 31 for, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] Correction denied. Amendment 10 actually addresses the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 11 refers to the relevant provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law. Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. The meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Legislative Affairs took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 442 Z. I would like to ask Senator Adam Gazwada to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report to the Joint Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Legislative Affairs. Committees meeting on 30 March they considered the conclusions put forward during the debate on 29 March. on the Law amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims. The joint committees request the adoption of amendments No 2.14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u50	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski still want to speak? [[No.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 shortens the deadline for the investor to object to the performance of works by the subcontractor from 30 to 14 days. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted against, 33 against, 54 against. [[Voting No 27]] Correction denied. Amendment 2 correlates the provision setting out the scope of the Enforcement Act in the administration with the wording of that law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 3 deletes the unnecessary reference and harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 deletes the part of the provision which repeats another regulation and harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 5 ensures the terminology of the law on redress in group proceedings with the Civil Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 6 correlates the scope of references to the provisions to which reference is made. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 7 eliminates a shortcut from the provision, suggesting that public authorities are the creditor of public debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 8 adds the missing transitional provision setting out the impact of the amendment of the Civil Code on works contracts concluded before the date of entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] Amendments 10 and 9 will be voted together. Amendment 10 adds the missing transitional provision setting out the impact of the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code on safeguards granted in safeguard proceedings initiated before the date of entry into force of the Law. Amendment 9 is the consequence of this amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 11 aims to ensure that the economic information offices are obliged to adapt the data management rules to all amendments to the regulations resulting from the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 12 correlates the scope of the reference to the provisions to which reference is made. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] Amendments 13 and 14 specify the date of entry into force of the Act and its specific provisions in accordance with the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 441 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! The Commission, at its meeting on 30 March 2017, considered the requests made during the debate on 29 March on the Law amending the excise duty Act and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal contained in the Act. II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u52	Does Senator Marek Martynowski want to speak? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 35 votes against, 51 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the law. The amendment introduces a mandatory register of completely contaminated alcohol sold in the territory of the country and selected products containing ethyl alcohol classified in the relevant sub-category of the Polish Classification of Products and Services. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We're giving you the results. The votes were 86 senators, 58 votes against, 25 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] The amendment was accepted. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 55 for, 32 against. [[Voting No 42]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the excise duty Act. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 455 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today, the Commission has examined the proposals made in the course of the debate yesterday on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and presents the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal contained in point II of point 3. In addition, the committee informs that during the committee meeting Senator Jacek Włosowicz changed the content of his proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u54	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicant, Mieczysław Augustyn and Senator Jacek Włosowicz, or the other Senator rapporteur, Tomasz Grodzki, still want to speak? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u55	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I move and ask you to include Amendment 1. It retains the possibility of continuing the work of geriatric troops at Level II and facilitates their introduction at Level III, i.e. in clinical hospitals. Thus, it allows for a stronger motivation for such a necessary increase in the number of doctors with geriatric specialisation. It is fully consistent with the government's senior policy. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u56	Thank you very much. We'll proceed to the... Oh, and Senator Grodzki. You're welcome... [[Sorry, that's Amendment 1 in point II. This has been taken into account differently. Thank you.]] Thank you. Senator Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u57	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In the light of this morning's meeting of the Health Committee, during which it was clear that the fight was forgotten about the interministerial arrangements and the Ministry of Justice, to our surprise, made amendments to the draft of the Ministry of Health, and Minister Gryza commented that this was not an amendment of the Ministry of Health... That is why I maintain my amendment on pilotage so that we avoid this type of coincidence during the implementation of this difficult law in everyday practice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Health Committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 35 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 43]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. The Health Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested that this law be adopted without amendment. It's print number 456 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Environment. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment took place during the discussion and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 460 Z. I would like to ask Senator Zdzisław Pupa to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration at its meeting today, i.e. On 30 March 2017, they considered the conclusions made during the debate yesterday, i.e. 29 March 2017, on the Act amending the Environmental Law. The Commission shall present to the High Senate the following position: The High Senate shall accept the proposals set out in points 2 and 2, paragraphs 10, 11, 13 and 14. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. Do Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski or Senator Piotr Florek still want to speak? You're welcome, Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 30 March 2017 will be remembered in the Senate as a black day for Polish self-government. The end of self-government in voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management, another serious conflict of government with local governments. Self-governments are deprived of impact on the spending of resources allocated to the implementation of environmental protection tasks in their region. The government will appoint 4 out of 5 members of the supervisory boards of voivodship environmental funds. The Voivodeship will determine the remuneration of the members of the supervisory boards. The law, which will be adopted by the votes of law and justice, is contrary to the idea of decentralisation of public authority laid down in Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. We will, of course, vote against this law. I would like your support, please vote with us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u62	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? [[Everyone's in.]] Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 33 were in favour, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 45]] I conclude that the claim was rejected. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1, 9 and 12 eliminate changes to reduce the number of persons on the Supervisory Board of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 34 were in favour, 49 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 46]] I state that the amendments have been rejected. Amendments 2, 10 and 13 eliminate changes to reduce the number of persons on the Supervisory Board of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. In addition, Amendment 2 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 33 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 47]] I state that the amendments have been accepted. Amendments 3, 6 and 7 aim to harmonise the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 81 votes in favour, no votes against, one abstention. [[Voting No 48]] I state that the amendments have been accepted. Amendments 4 and 11 take into account that the Vice-Presidents of the Supervisory Boards of Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds are members of these Boards. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 83 votes, no one voted against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 49]] I state that the amendments have been accepted. Amendment 5 provides that the conditions for remuneration and remuneration of members of the supervisory boards of regional environmental and water funds will be determined by the voivodships. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 52 against, 32 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 50]] I state that the Senate has accepted the amendment. Amendment 8 takes into account that the management of the Voivodship Environmental and Water Management Fund can be a single person. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 83 votes in favour, no one voted against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 51]] I state that the Senate has accepted the amendment. Amendment 14 introduces a regulation that maintains the existing statutes of the Regional Environmental and Water Funds until new statutes are issued, adapted to the amendments introduced by this Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 Senators voted in favour, 84 votes against, one abstention. [[Voting No 52]] I state that the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 52 against, 32 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 53]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Protection Law. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in relation to certain public registers. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 457 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, and they were all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending certain laws in relation to the tasks of public administrations in respect of certain public registers. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance and the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 459 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animals Insurance and the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animals Insurance. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on security of mass events. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 458 A and 458 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on security of mass events. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki. I would like to remind you that the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution was presented before the interruption and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution, contained in print No 448 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...born in 1921, deceased in 1987. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please! [[Quiet! The Marshal requests silence. Well, ladies and gentlemen!]] Thank you very much, Senator. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the Thirty-eightth Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that the order of the next meeting, scheduled for 20 and 21 April, will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please! Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? I'm asking you, Senator Wistla, to be the first to speak. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to make a statement to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. On 4 July 2016, a small border traffic with Ukraine and the Russian Kaliningrad region was suspended. The reason for the suspension of local border traffic was given concern for security in Poland during the NATO Summit and during the World Youth Days. Although it was difficult, even for the Minister, to identify the risks posed by the MRG, we were hoping that the restrictions would be removed once these events had been completed. Therefore, it was a shock to decide to restore the local border traffic only with Ukraine and maintain the suspension of the MRG with Russia. At the same time, the government continued to ensure that it intends to restore a small border traffic with the Kaliningrad circuit. And so on. In September 2016, during the Third Eastern Economic Congress in Bialystok, the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marek Ziółkowski directly announced the restoration of the local border traffic. Over time, however, it turned out that this swallow would not make any spring. Therefore, on 27 February this year, I handed over a petition to Prime Minister Beata Szydło for the restoration of the local border traffic signed by more than 4 000 inhabitants of the border region, mainly Elbląg and Braniewo. I know that many local authorities have also adopted positions in which they call for the restoration of local border traffic. In response to my statements, as well as to the letter to the Prime Minister, the thesis was repeated on the militarisation of the Kaliningrad circuit, the threat of cyber attacks, intelligence and other virtual activities, because they were not confirmed in facts, threats. After all, no one will believe that the Russians can use the powers under the MRG to spy in Poland. At the same time, the importance of direct contacts for the development of border regions and for improving relations between Russians and Poles, i.e. what is the essence of the idea of small border movements, has been underestimated. There is no doubt that the closure of local border traffic has eliminated many inter-regional activities carried out by various groups, associations and even local authorities. The closure of local border traffic prevented the residents of the subregion from using border trade and limited the functioning on the Polish side of many services addressed to Russian customers. Of course, the inhabitants of the border zone lost their lives in material terms. The government seems to be happy about that. But is it right? So let me remind you that we are not talking about criminals, but about the inhabitants of the region that is one of the poorest in Poland and in the European Union. Outermost, with the highest level of unemployment in the country. It's hard to find any job here, harder than e.g. a well-paid job in Warsaw. Statistics already show a dozen percent decrease in the number of Russians arriving in Poland and about 50% decrease in the number of Poles' trips to Kaliningrad region. Unfortunately, it turns out that the Polish government is not interested in these arguments. In recent days, news has appeared in the media that the Government of Law and Justice does not intend to restore local border traffic at all because of the increasing militarisation of the Kaliningrad circuit and the increased activity of special services and other forces departments. I ask, therefore, whether the Polish government intends to restore a small border traffic with the Kaliningrad circuit or not, and if it intends, what conditions must be fulfilled for a small border traffic to be restored. However, if he does not intend to restore the local border traffic, I ask why. I'm asking for verifiable, factual, not virtual, imaginary reasons. How will the Polish government compensate hundreds of thousands of citizens for the cost of obtaining permissions to cross the border under the MRG, which have expired because of the Polish government? Doesn't the Polish government fear that gestures hostile to Russia will result in actions that undermine Poland's interests, including mostly border regions? Let me remind you that a few days ago, the Russians informed us that they would analyse whether the construction of the channel by measuring it does not affect their interests. There has never been such statements on the part of Russia before. On the contrary, we received many signals that they were favourable to this investment. It may turn out that the Russians will find a way to stop this construction in retaliation for the policy of the Polish government, which may mean that there will not be at least 2 000 jobs around Elbląg, which are to be the result of not just the construction of the channel, but developed through it trade with Kaliningrad. Without finding any legitimate reasons to close the local border traffic, I ask directly: is the subregion of the Vistula flood, the subregion of Braniewa, Elbląg, Bartoszyc, Lidzbark Warmiński supposed to pay, because development opportunities have been stopped, just because the Law and Justice have some internal injury, injury towards Russia? Thank you. Another brief statement addressed to the Minister of National Education, Anna Zalewska. According to the assumptions that the Minister has repeatedly confirmed, education reform will not cost local governments. But I myself suggested that such possible emerging costs should compensate local governments for the state budget. The Minister's various statements seem to confirm these suggestions. 'Cause, you know, like... in a letter dated 7 March 2017 to school heads, teachers and educational staff, the Minister states that the Ministry of National Education has about PLN 300 million to adapt schools to change the tasks resulting from the reform. Therefore, I ask you to know whether the local authorities that make a reasoned request for measures to bring schools into line with the requirements of the reform can count on support. If there is or will be a fixed formula for requesting such support, as requested by the Mayor of Ketrzyn In my opinion, meeting the criteria for support, the city will receive the amount of PLN 310 000 which it has to spend on adapting 4 studios in transformed primary schools? The request was sent by the City of Ketrzyn to the Ministry of National Education on 15 July 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u64	Thank you very much. Senator Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with numerous voices from the Polish community in Austria, I address the Minister of Culture and National Heritage By means of Mr. Marshal With the request to intervene in order to change the inscription on the monument commemorating the Polish victims of the German Nazi crime in the concentration camp Mauthausen-Gusen. It is widely known that during World War II this camp was a place of execution for over 335 thousand prisoners, including people of Polish, Russian, Austrian, Jewish, German and many others. Among many of our compatriots who had been sent to KL Mauthausen since 1939, there was a special place for representatives of Polish intelligence and clergy, whose extermination was a planned action by the Third Reich. Today, after more than 70 years since the liberation of the camp, the monument commemorating the victims still bears a inscription in which the Polish People's Republic pays tribute to the murdered. It must be admitted that, 27 years after the democratic change in Poland, the inscription in our eyes and also in the eyes of the international public, we are ashamed to mention the pain of those present at the anniversary celebrations, few already living, surviving Polish prisoners of this camp. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I am sending my first statement to the Foreign Minister in connection with an incident that has all signs of a terrorist attack concerning the Polish consular post in Łuck. I ask the Minister to kindly ask for information on what actions will be taken by the Polish authorities to increase the level of security of our Polish institutions and institutions in the territory of the Ukrainian State. The position of the Polish government, which demands the strengthening of the protection of these facilities by Ukrainian institutions and services, is absolutely right, but my question is to clarify whether the Polish authorities, as part of the change in the organisation of these facilities, provide for some strengthening of the protection of these facilities. The second statement, which I am sending to you, Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, has the following content. In view of the information in public space about the planned introduction from 1 January 2018 of lower danins than low-income companies, within the framework of small activities and non-registered activities, I ask the Prime Minister kindly for more information on this subject. The third statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. The amendment of the law on public roads and some other laws created the possibility for municipalities in Poland to build e.g. cycling paths by roads which are not the manager. My Senator's office is approached by representatives of the local government with concerns as to whether the amendment of the Act will not induce the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways to refrain from subsidising these investments from their own resources, which concern the improvement of safety on the public roads managed by it. I'm asking for information on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u68	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address my speech to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. It is a problem related to the implementation of the problem of flood protection of the Oder and Vistula basin, which is to be financed by the funds of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; the project is run by the Świętokrzyski Board of Melioration and Water Equipment in Kielce. Namely, it is about the conditions offered to companies that submit their offers to implement this program. These conditions are set in such a way that they prefer, in principle, one or two foreign companies, by setting a very high threshold in the form of average annual turnover of EUR 32.5 million and then by demonstrating that 2 contracts with a minimum value of EUR 55 million have been completed and that at least 1 contract with a minimum value of EUR 110 million has been completed. Of course, such conditions are the setting of a tender under, as I said, one or two huge foreign companies, which are essentially monopolists. This arouses legitimate bitterness among Polish companies, which are slightly smaller, but not less efficient in the implementation of such projects. In this connection, I received speeches from representatives of these companies, who pay attention to the harmful, even blocked method used by the project leader, namely by the Świętokrzyskie Management Board of Melioration and Water Equipment in Kielce. Those who intervene point out that de facto, in practice, there is such a situation that only foreign companies are able to win such a tender and then in practice carry out such tasks for 150% value of the investment cost, and real contractors are Polish companies, whose remuneration to the pond a small part of the realised investment cost. Of course, this is a curial situation, which, in my opinion, requires the intervention of the Minister and reminders to the conductor of the project, which should be the rules for them to meet not only the requirement of transparency but also elementary justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-30-senat-38-2.u70	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. [[There's no messages.]] No messages? I would like to inform you that the minutes of the Thirty-eightth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The Thirty-eightth Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 14 minutes 30]]
