ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u1	High Izbo, resume. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the item: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017, the printing no. 676 and considering this item as item twenty-first of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't see the objection. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. The text of the Act is contained in print No 676 and the report of the committee In print No 676 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] High Izbo, please be quiet. The senator is starting his report. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I was honoured to submit a report on today's meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on the examination of the draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. First of all, I'd like to point out that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone needs to talk, please leave the room. Quiet, please.]] First of all, I would like to point out that the committee meeting was very substantive. There have been a lot of questions to the finance minister's representative, to the Deputy Minister of Finance, to which the senators have received answers. In this connection, the committee voted as follows: 5 senators were in favour, no one was in favour against and no one held back. The bill received the support of the representatives of the committee. And I also ask on behalf of the committee for the adoption of the law without amendment. Furthermore, amendments were not tabled during the committee meeting. As regards the matter of the law, I would like to point out that the law is intended to enable different entities to receive grants for the financing of various benefits, various, so to speak, budgetary tasks from the reserve, from savings from reserves, from reserves that have not been used. More specifically, as regards the subject-matter of the Act, these are measures which may be allocated by the National Health Fund in the form of grants for the financing of guaranteed benefits, including highly specialised benefits, granted over the amounts of commitments resulting from the agreements concluded for the granting of those benefits. And here will be an amount of up to PLN 1 billion. As the Minister pointed out at the committee meeting, the Act provides the legal basis for the transfer of funds to the NFZ. There's no other legal basis. The second element of the Act is to allow the transfer of funds from the State budget in the form of a special grant of up to PLN 200 million to the Reprivatisation Fund in order to purchase or take up shares of capital companies. The next element of the Act is to allow additional funds to be transferred from the State budget to the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund. This is the amount of PLN 180 million. Another of the elements of the Act is to allow the transfer of funds in the form of a special grant to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Here the aim is to cover damage to agricultural crops, forests or buildings for farmers to carry out agricultural activities caused by hurricane, rain, high or other, so to speak, by atmospheric phenomena Another element of the draft law is the possibility to transfer funds in the form of a special subsidy to finance the maintenance of strategic reserves, including the exchange or conversion of strategic reserves, that is PLN 150 million. Another, the last, element of the bill is the possibility of transferring the special provisions to: financing the purchase of real estate for CBA offices in Warsaw, Poznań and another town whose name I do not remember, unfortunately, This is the amount of PLN 79 million; the financing of operational and technical and ICT tasks carried out by ABW up to PLN 57 million 300 thousand; the granting of grants to fund the perpetual capital of the Cultural Heritage Foundation with its registered office in Warsaw Up to PLN 100 million; implementation of the project of integrated border management of Libya up to PLN 10 million; payment of incentive prizes to police officers Up to PLN 5 million. As I mentioned at the beginning, during the committee meeting, the senators had quite a number of questions which the Minister answered in a factual and substantive manner. Other representatives of the ministries also replied. Therefore, if there are any questions As for the committee meeting, I'm the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u3	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, was the committee's meeting discussed in detail... Because I understand that... here I am. [[Yeah, yeah.]] ...We simply have the opportunity to finance the various areas of the functioning of the state with budgetary resources, no, this is the idea of this law...of which a significant part will go to health protection, which is a very good trend. But I also found there an amount of approximately PLN 200 million for possible purchase of passenger ferries. Is this about... [[Excuse me, buy what?]] Ferry. On request and development of services... i.e. In total, the de facto development of services... [[...seafaring.]] ...in shipping. Was there anything specific about this at the committee meeting and whether something more specific about how these funds will be spent... Was there any mention of this at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u5	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? I don't see any calls. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, to answer your question, I'm going to say that at the committee's hearing on this piece of the bill, there was no question. I therefore think that if you repeat your question, the Minister will be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u7	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have representatives from the Ministry of Finance today: Minister Teresa Czerwińska; Ministry of Health Minister Katarzyna Głowala; Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Minister Jerzy Materna. Would any of your ministers like to speak? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Mrs Marshal, I am ready to answer questions.]] I see. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Voice from the room: First Jan Maria...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Minister, come on in because... [[Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for Minister Materna...]] I see. [[...and to Minister Cookali. Yeah, well...]] [[Voices from the O.R.: They were nodding.]] [[Excuse me.]] Okay... [[Excuse me.]] Then I invite Minister Jerzy Materna to the podium. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo, there's a question here about... There is a forecast of PLN 1 billion 400 million for the recapitalisation of companies. And among others. 200 million go to the Polish Development Fund, which will raise its capital by 200 million and support, among others. The construction of the shuttles, which is what the senator was talking about. This is the goal that we want to achieve, important tasks for our economy, among others. just to strengthen the ability to perform this important task, which is the construction of ferries And it's not just 1 ferry, because we want to build at least 6 shuttles. That's our job. And that's the purpose of the recapitalisation of this company. That's all I can say about that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u9	Thank you very much. Are there any more... [[Can I have another one, Mrs. Marshal?]] Are there any more... Yes. Minister, stay on the stand, because Senator Jackowski... [[I'm still here to see the Deputy Minister of Health...]] Wait a minute, gentlemen. Do you have another question for Minister Materna, Senator? [[Yes.]] Yes? Well, ask me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u10	Then, Mrs. Marshal... Minister, I have this question: how will these 6 planned units qualitatively expand the Polish fleet? I'm asking 'cause I don't know what I'm talking about. I understand that this will be an important supply, especially when it comes to ferry services in the Baltic Sea area, namely the Swedish and Danish direction, and that this is where these units will be directed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u11	As far as I'm concerned... At the moment, PZB is building, she just ordered the construction of the ferry at the shipyard. 'Cause we're seeing more and more traffic... We already have more than half of the important road S3, we are modernising Nadodrzanka, the ports are seeing more and more traffic on this... And this is an additional source for our economy, a source of income, because the more goods will be carried out in Polish ports, among others. about Świnoujście, Szczecin, the greater the revenue to the budget. It's over 20... Any goods that will be carried out in the Polish port, and not in the next port, and we see all this, is due to some research. It's going to mean that kind of income. And that's the purpose of coming across here, building those shuttles. We're seeing more and more freight traffic... And we're happy about that because the budget is going to have more revenue, and that's what it's going to be about. No? We are fighting for many important goals, and the driving force behind all this is the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u12	Thank you, Minister. You still have a question for Senator Waldemar Sługocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, thank you very much. Your determination and commitment to inland waterway transport is well known. Thank you for that. But I have a question. Minister, what does it look like in the time unit? So I understand that Poland has already commissioned Baltic Shipping this year. And it is also a pleasure that the Polish shipper will carry out these ferries... [[Not to the ship owner, but to the shipyard.]] Shipyard, sorry, yard. I'm sorry, yes, yes, of course. So I have a question: when will they be done? And is this recapitalisation one-off, only in this budget, this year's budget... I'm sorry, next year's budget, or will this funding also be in the next financial years? Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u14	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u15	Let me say this: at this moment we want to recapitalise the Polish Company Development Fund, which recently handed over to us the former Ministry of Treasury Today, at the Council of Ministers, there is a responsible body that simply handed over this company to us. And this company will be recapitalized. What's gonna happen next... It's a little confidential information, and I don't want to get into the details here too much. But in general, it is about strengthening the economy in general. We want to have more revenue, so we want to invest in the very things that will give us in the future, as I said, more revenue for the state budget. That's the primary objective.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u16	Thank you very much. And Senator Thomas Grodzki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, as a matter of fact, this shipyard is called Gryphia and not Gryphe. But that's the least important thing. There's another problem, because that keel that was solemnly laid a few months ago has already rusted. There's this piece of sheet metal lying around anyway. Her position was a purely propaganda success, but not a real one. Here's my question. Will we build these ferries so summa summarum from the budget, or will it only be a certain strengthening of this construction, and if so, what will it depend on?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u18	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u19	I wouldn't want to answer politically. We've seen what's been done over the last 10 years, done. Our industry was destroyed, to say the least. We want to rebuild it today. At first, of course, there are some problems... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Come on, let's not get into politics. We're discussing the bill...]] [[Quiet, please!]] I didn't bother the senator when he asked. [[Minister, please...]] We've all seen what's been going on in the last 10 years. We want to rebuild it. It's not all gonna be beautiful. There are some problems, but we solve these problems all the time. Like I said, we're trying to keep up... You will see, in 2, 3 years, how Gryfia rebuilds, how a new... Designers who have gone to countries like Norway and work for other countries will come back here, design and build. Every first project, something that hasn't been done for many years, requires some action. It's certainly not easy, but we're doing everything we can to make the shipbuilding industry as strong as it used to be in the old days. I hope that in a few years the shipbuilding industry will be a strong industry and we will be proud of it. We can see that Cegielski is back on track... One zloty invested in the shipbuilding industry gives many zlotys, so to speak, around this industry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u20	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Krystian Probie. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u21	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As much as possible in support of the development programme of our shipyards, I would like to ask the question of where steel comes from for the construction of these ships. Is she from Poland or is she imported? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u22	It's so detailed... If you want, we'll answer it in writing and you'll know exactly what it is. [[And that's the answer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u23	Mr. Senator, I'm addressing Senator Krystian Probrana. Would you like a written answer to that question? [[Yes.]] Good. Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Waldemar Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u24	Thank you very much. Minister, you've been talking about the last 10 years. Do you think about the period from 2005 to... [[State Secretary at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Since 2007.]] Since 2007? [[State Secretary at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: 2008, sorry.]] From 2008 to today? I see. I also understand that you have been critical of the last two years as part of your autoreflexia. So I would ask you to step up your efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u25	You ask Senator Grzegorz Napieralski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I will ask you a question very gently and unpolitically. I'm continuing with the subject from Senator Slugocki's question. I'd like you to tell me very carefully when these shuttles will be built and when they'll be operational. 'Cause when it comes to things like that. about the development of our carrier, Polish Airlines LOT, we can specifically say that there is a new connection to Tokyo, there is a new connection to Korea, to Singapore etc. You are talking about great plans and increased traffic, which will appear thanks to the construction of the S3 route. I'd like to ask when these shuttles will be and when they'll be functioning, making the money you're talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u27	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Mr. Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u28	I was interested, Minister, in the problem of this keel. What's the condition of that keel right now, or something was welded to it... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Is she just lying there? [[It's the easiest thing to laugh at!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u29	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Are there any more questions for the Minister? If not, we'll have Minister Katarzyna Głowala in a moment... [[Me too.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would not expect an answer now, I would just ask you to follow these previous questions, to present in writing detailed information related to the organisation of the shipyard, including the progress of the work and the progress of the construction of this ferry, because here just some legends are disseminated.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u31	Thank you very much. Do you still have a question for the Minister? Well, here you go, and we're done here. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u32	Minister, tell me if I understand this correctly. Since there will be a recapitalisation of the company that invests in these ferries, it will be possible to continue work and build a skeleton around this keel, then hull, sheet plating, etc. Am I getting this right? Answer me that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u33	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Yes, Mr. Senator, I answer yes. It's all about starting and ending in the plan we're predicting... As far as I know, three years from now, the construction of the first shuttle is to be completed. And to all the questions that have been asked here, malicious or less malicious, we will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. And I'll ask Minister Katarzyna Głowala. The minister's office is... [[I'd be...]] Yes, I know, Mr. Senator, I have it written down that you want to ask the Minister a question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u36	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question for you. Here the highest amount gets health care and very well, it is very positive. Tell me if... I understand that these are the funds that will be used to pay for overperformance of various public health units. Could the Minister say if there is an algorithm that determines how these funds will be directed within the framework of this billion zloty? I'm particularly interested in the Mazowsze. What are the amounts for the various regions of Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u37	You're still Senator Jan Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm addressing the government, not necessarily you, Minister. Well, once again, the budget includes the amount for aid, for the implementation of the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and persecuted persons, and the expenditure did not exceed 10%. The Senate Committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u39	Mr. Senator, I don't think that's a question for the Minister. [[But you gave me the floor, so I couldn't say no, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I thought you were gonna ask the Minister of Dung a question. [[No.]] It's gonna be a minute, okay? [[Good.]] Then we'll ask you... [[I have a question for the Minister of Health.]] Good. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about this large amount, intended to finance procedures or over-contract performances. These over-executions are in Poland for about PLN 2.5 billion, how quickly I figured out, and the amount that will be allocated for this is PLN 1 billion, which is still about PLN 1.5 billion missing. At the same time, I have just received information that in the Pomeranian Voivodeship the National Health Fund forced on hospitals the signing of a settlement in which they renounce the refund of the money for overperformance. And the directors told me today, we talked between our committee meeting and our plenary session. This law was passed yesterday late in the evening and reached us today, so it was difficult to get to know it more precisely. In previous years, money was paid out for these overperformances already in October, of course it was late, but it was in October, and here so far nothing, However, this is considered a great success. What's this all about? In previous years, there was also more money for these excesses.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u41	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please, your vote is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u42	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! I'll start with Senator Jackowski's question. I would like to start by pointing out that this amount, which has been mentioned in the Around Budget Act, concerns over-executions from the years 2008 to 2017. The breakdown by branch of the National Health Fund was taken into account, taking into account the demand for additional funding for high-specialist benefits from each branch of the voivodship. Because this amount of PLN 1 billion is overperformance both as part of ordinary benefits and as part of high-specialist benefits. As far as high-specialization benefits are concerned, this is about PLN 40 million. It then took into account the amounts of non-financed, unpaid and non-scheduled benefits granted before 2017 above the amount of commitments resulting from the health care contract in types: hospital treatment, psychiatric care This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The funding indicators for overperformances are also taken into account in the different ranges of benefits. Another such criterion, which was taken into account, is the criterion resulting from the amounts of unfunded and unexecuted benefits provided between January and September 2017 in the various divisions of the NFZ: anaesthesia and intensive medical care units, strokes, child specialist, oncology, unlimited, toxicology, transplantology, taking into account the prices of units of account resulting from health care contracts. On the basis of these criteria and demand reported by the provider, this amount of PLN 1 billion was divided into the following voivodeship divisions: the Lower Silesia branch: PLN 125 million; the Kujawsko-Pomorskie branch PLN 141 million; the Lublin branch PLN 90 million; the Lubuskie branch PLN 3 million; the Łódź branch PLN 6 million; the Małopolska branch PLN 37 million; the Mazowiecki branch PLN 268 million; the Opole branch PLN 27 million; the Podkarpackie region PLN 20 million; the Podlaskie branch PLN 1 million; the Pomeranian branch PLN 10 million; the Silesian branch PLN 99 million; the Świętokrzyskie This is, for the time being, the forecast distribution, as a last resort, may change, as this will depend on NFZ negotiations with individual providers. As regards the question of Senator Kleina, I would like to remind you that already this year, on the basis of the decision of 15 November 2017, the National Health Fund has mobilised PLN 571 million from the reserve fund, which has been allocated to overexecution. In addition, the amendment of the plan of 9 November 2017 transferred the amount of PLN 259 million, also intended to finance over-executions. Thus, in fact, the amount allocated to the payment of overperformances is much greater than that which is enshrined in the around budget law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u43	Please, Senator. You want to ask more questions, don't you? [[Jackie, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u44	Yes, sir. I'm surprised my colleagues here aren't interested in this subject... [[Because we understand.]] [[We understand!]] ...because it's fundamental. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Mrs. Marshal, Minister, I have a further clarification question. First: is this algorithm that you have just said about, the division into individual branches, voivodships, due to the level of debt of public units in these voivodships, and hence there are such differences that there are 13 million PLN somewhere, and somewhere else there is a much larger amount? And second question. If it is not possible to reply to them now, I will ask for a written reply. When the Voivodeship Hospital in Ciechanów is located... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...who, as far as I'm concerned, has a great deal of need in this regard? Thank you. [[In Słupsk too...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u45	Will you answer in writing or... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Yes, I will provide written information.]] In writing. Good. Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Thank you very much.]] Senator Jan Rulewski wishes to ask a question and I think we will ask Minister Teresa Czerwinska for an answer. [[Can I have two?]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] I don't know, we'll see about that, Senator. [[The first, basic question...]] Wait a minute. [[...how they evolved...]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u46	Sorry to bother you, Minister. How did the costs of public debt management develop over the past year? [[In writing.]] Not in writing. The Minister doesn't just have it in his head, but mostly in his heart... And the other thing. Minister, for the second time, the expenditure carried out by the Office for Foreign Affairs. The combatants for the implementation of the Act on opposition activists and repressed persons did not exceed 10%. The Senate committee has requested the transfer of these funds, e.g. For health care, for medical attention. What's your position? Is there still a chance to implement this dissertation or, in fact, the committee's position?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u47	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u48	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, as regards the costs of handling the Treasury debt, I have quoted this several times, but... Mr. Senator, last year in relation to gross domestic product 'Cause that's how we usually apply it. That's 1.72%. Following the amendment of the Budget Act in 2017, this is a decrease of 1,57% up to 1.54% gross domestic product. And in 2018 according to the Budget Act, which is currently being proceded in the Seym, that is to say, a decrease to 1,49% gross domestic product. [[How much is it in ruthless...]] [[I'll figure it out for you if you want.]] About... [[In absolute amounts, because all those in units of GDP...]] When it comes to ruthless... [[...and everything seems to be okay...]] Senator, if you don't mind, in the meantime, I'll take the calculator and calculate... in writing... [[All right. Yeah, yeah.]] ...exactly, in absolute amount, because the gross domestic product... [[Thank you.]] Yes. I'll figure it out. As a rule, we are simply using this percentage ratio for gross domestic product, which allows us to compare in individual years, because it is known that the absolute amount is a nominal amount, and we are talking about more representative values, so I am giving here values relative to GDP... But as requested by the senator, of course I'll calculate it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] About the second question... If I understand the senator correctly, your question concerns reserve 63, this is reserve, I apologize if I give you an inaccurate name, anti-communist opposition activists... [[You've read it thoroughly.]] Sixty-third reserve. In the budget bill for the current year the plan is PLN 50 million, and the distribution for yesterday, not today, is PLN 13 million 920 thousand, which is not 10% Only 28%. Those are the numbers. It is difficult for me, Mr. Senator, to refer to the level of disposal of a given reserve, because the Minister of Finance, as you know very well, distributes the reserve at the request of the authorising officer. So when it comes to the very precise, precise question of why such an amount has been requested, then if the senator permits, we will answer in writing, we will ask the relevant authorising officer why this was the demand, and this is the answer we will give. I, as the public manager... I'm sorry, but for every authorising officer, I'd have to ask in detail why this demand is less. [[Thank you. My heart was right about you having this thing on your mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Joseph the Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u50	Mrs Marshal, Minister, I would like to ask if the Ministry has an interest, even under a magnifying glass, in the form of quick debt developers, such as others. two special Lublin hospitals, where debt increases exceed 20, 30 million a year, and the overall state of debt is probably within 150 million, and we have not actually seen any impact in terms of reconstruction, changes in these hospitals, and debt increases for a long time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u52	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the $100 million for the agency. It's about disaster damage. Would the Minister like to... It's very valuable that the 100 million will be. I understand that these measures will be directed mainly to the Pomeranian and Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, because, as I understand, this concerns these windfalls and those natural disasters which were particularly in that region in 2017. But could the Minister say something even closer, how exactly are these funds to be spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u53	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! As far as the addition is concerned, maybe I'll start with the senator's last question, because it was also a matter of interest at the committee meeting this morning. Thus, this aid to agricultural producers who suffered damage caused by the occurrence of a hurricane, hail or heavy rain in August of this year results from the legal basis, i.e. the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 28 August this year on the establishment of an aid scheme for farmers and agricultural producers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out immediately, because it may be interesting that this is an aid addressed to farmers and agricultural producers. Other victims also received assistance from the fourth reserve, so-called. the disaster reserve. But right now, I'm only referring to that $100 million. And so now: the aid rates are derived from the provisions of the Council of Ministers Regulation on the detailed scope and ways in which certain tasks of the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture are to be carried out. And here it is: 1 thousand zloty per hectare of agricultural area, where damage occurred; 2 thousand zlotys per hectare of forest area, where damage occurred and 10,000 to rebuild a building for agricultural activity. As for the amount of aid that you asked the senator about, I would like to point out that the evaluation of the amounts in the committees mentioned by the senator of the voivodships is carried out by the committees. Therefore, these proposals come to the committee, the committees verify them and set individual amounts for each voivodeship. So if you'll excuse me, that today, when we proceed with this bill, I do not have detailed information about the division into voivodships, but they will surely appear after the committee has verified these damages. I can only say that to this day 159 million is already secured directly in the agency's plan, and this is an additional 100 million aid that is about to eliminate these effects. About the senator's question... Forgive me for peeking in the meantime, but I want to figure out how much it's going to be in billions to answer the senator's question. [[I'm sure it's more than that.]] I'll give it to you in a minute, 'cause I want to be precise. As far as hospital debt is concerned, Senator, as the senator said, of course, these public funds are very much in my heart, but in the case of such very detailed questions concerning specific hospitals, which you have said, at this point I do not want to respond because the situation relating to hospital debt is very multifaceted and complicated. Perhaps Minister Głowala will complete my statement because he may have more detailed information. I wouldn't like to take a position here after giving two or three examples. Yes? And supplementing the answer to Senator Rulewski's question about the cost of handling debt... In the meantime... This is after the amendment of PLN 29,8 billion nominally this year. That's a 30.4 drop this year. I say: 30,4 before the amendment and 29.8 after the amendment. So the nominal reduction in service costs last year is 32.1 billion, and in 2018, it will be 30.7. That's what I figured out. I can still make it up in writing if the senator wishes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski still wants to ask a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll sort of put myself in Senator Jackowski's question about hospital debt. And I don't know if it's the Minister who's gonna answer me or if it's Minister Katarzyna Głowala. It's not directly related to the bill, but... we're transferring funds to the NFZ, they're going to the units, the indebted units. And now I have a question: Minister Radziwiłł has mentioned here before that there will be ongoing work on some systemic solutions aimed at extending hospitals. Are such actions on the part of the Ministry of Finance, carried out in agreement with the Ministry of Health, ongoing? And also the question to the Minister: at what stage are they at? Is there something going on here? Because we have a growing problem with debt-bearing, increasingly indebted public health units. I'm talking about voivodship hospitals, county hospitals, urban hospitals. And are there any solutions under consideration at this point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u57	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for Minister Teresa Czerwinska? I don't see any calls. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u58	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As far as hospital debt is concerned, I understand this subject of interest. As I have already mentioned, this is a very multifaceted situation with regard to the causes of hospital debt. She is not the subject of today's proceedings... [[Yes, sir.]] However, if you allow me, this position on the subject will, I think, be presented in writing by the Minister, perhaps from the Ministry of Health... [[Well, in writing.]] And on our part, about the Ministry of Finance... We have been repeatedly asked to cooperate and this cooperation is being undertaken in terms of estimating the impact on the public finance sector. We are also involved in the team, which was appointed by Minister Radziwiłła this year to... I will not mention the exact name, but it is a team chaired by Minister Szczurek-Żelazko, she presides over his deliberations. And we are actively involved in it as regards the side of the estimation of the aid to the Minister of Health in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u59	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions for the Minister. Does Minister Katarzyna Głowala still want to comment? Yes? Here you go, so briefly, Minister. I don't think there'll be any more questions. But there are those that concern health care, so here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u60	Dear Marshal! Dear Izbo! As far as the senator's questions are concerned, I understand that this is about the Provincial Specialist Hospital. Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński in Lublin... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Minister. Mr. Senator Jackowski, the Minister is answering your question...]] [[I'm here to consult...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[...and I'm sure the Minister will want to answer in quite detail, so I'd like your attention.]] [[But I think you've changed your political position here at last...]] [[Quiet, please.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] Unfortunately, all I have is hospital records in Lublin. Among the information for the third quarter of 2017, we have information on which hospitals recorded the highest increase in debt, over 10 million. And these are unfortunately 2 Lublin hospitals, but this does not apply to Chełm. And when it comes to issues... I would simply prefer to reply in writing in this regard, because I am not familiar with the information about the hospital in Chelm. As regards the issue that Minister Radziwiłł said about a systemic solution to help indebted hospitals, analytical work is still underway at the Ministry of Health to take such action, because... I don't want to talk about the details right now, because we're working with some actors and there's still some conceptual work going on, but we're trying to solve it. It's a system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions of the task of Senators Krystian Probierza, Kazimierz Kleina, Marek Borowski, Jan Maria Jackowski and Jan Rulewski. Did I miss someone? Oh, and by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! It is very good that we can, almost at the end of the year, but we can process this law here, because we see that from the shape of this law, which the government has proposed, there is also the shape of the priorities and problems that stand before the Polish State. And so in the course of the discussion I did not accidentally ask about shipbuilding production and about securing funds for this company, which carries out ferry orders, as well as about health care and mitigation issues, because otherwise it cannot be called . effects to those producers, to those farmers, to those citizens who were, well, cruelly treated by the element in July 2017 when the natural disaster hit the areas where these people live, live, work. High Izbo! As far as the shipbuilding industry is concerned, if we looked at, for example, The network of connections from Goleniów Airport and saw how low-costs, or low-cost lines fly, so we would see that the network of these connections at least during a certain period was very important in the direction of labour migration, which highly specialised specialists from the Polish shipyards took in connection with the liquidation of their jobs. I no longer want to start a discussion here about the history of the shipbuilding industry, but the connections to Bergen were not accidental, because welders, highly qualified workers, who were educated in the construction and construction of ships, simply went abroad after bread. I am very pleased that the current government is taking action to rebuild the Polish shipbuilding industry, the Polish maritime economy as well as inland routes. And I would like to thank the Minister Jerzy Materno here as a representative of the Ministry, who is dealing with this issue, for his determination. I am pleased that Senator Slugocki, as a representative of the opposition, also appreciates the role of the Minister of this Ministry and this direction of thinking about the economy and in general on national issues. As far as health care is concerned, I, the Minister, have asked you further, and I am addressing the Deputy Minister of Health. It's about this algorithm about why the different areas of the National Health Fund will benefit from this billion in different ways. And the point of my question was that I asked not only about the voivodship hospital in Ciechanów, which is of course in my constituency and it is also a very important health facility for the entire Ciechanian subregion and for northern Mazowsze. I also asked about this algorithm, about what these differences result from, such that some voivodships received e.g. more than 100 million and others lower. I understand that this was due to a diagnosis of needs, but give me a detailed answer to this question in writing. I am very pleased that, at last, this problem of overexperience, which occurs so often in public debates... We as parliamentarians, as senators, face this problem in our electoral districts every day, because we as senators often intervene, write, make statements, ask for information, sometimes even participate in difficult negotiations or support difficult negotiations that are taking place in this area. This is an area that is extremely important for social life, for the Polish state, and I am very happy that PLN 1 billion is intended here... As far as I know, I don't think there's been that much money in recent years that would be on the bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I was just explaining it to you...]] ...about the budget for the solution... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Klein will argue with me... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Quiet! Quiet, please.]] ...but I would like to point out that Minister Głowala pointed out that the problem was overexercising from 2008 to 2017, i.e. that there were some past, past, and thus from the reign of the previous coalition. These issues should be resolved. From this point of view, I am satisfied and I am pleased that these measures will be passed on and that this problem will be minimised. Because, as I understand it, this problem, at least for now, despite this billion zlotys, is unfortunately impossible to zero. And finally, the third issue, the 100 million PLN for the victims. I am pleased that the government has consistently given support that the Polish State has shown solidarity with those who have been so cruelly experienced, especially with regard to property losses, but not only because of health and others. Through this element, this cataclysm. I am pleased that today, I hope, we will adopt this law and the possibility of implementing it will be activated as soon as possible. As you know, this act states that it shall enter into force on the day following the signature of the President and the announcement on the relevant official monitor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u63	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Marek Borowski. [[Mrs. Marshal, I have good news for my colleagues: I resign.]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[But please include me in the list of people to whom the Minister should reply in writing. I was asking the question of this keel, what about her, what she looks like. Thank you.]] Good. Of course. Here we go, Mr. Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, it's so nice to hear from you.]] That's the answer you'll get. And Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go. [[I thought you were gonna quit, too.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the opposition senators supported this amendment to the around budget law for 2017, but the more law and justice colleagues asked questions, the more doubts we had on our side. But that doesn't mean we're gonna change our minds. Once said, we are bound to act. At the committee meeting, we pointed out that the amendment of the Around Budget Act in mid-December was an action which had little to do with financial planning. A week or two ago, we were updating the budget bill for the current year, we were updating the budget bill. What happened in less than two weeks that couldn't have been predicted before? The general principle in the Public Finance Act is: if free resources appear in the reserves provided for in the State budget, the Minister of Finance may change the allocation of these funds, give them for purposes other than those provided for in the Budget Act, and this is done with the approval of the Public Finance Commission in the Sejm. And this practice has been for years, but such practice requires early, normal planning of spending money, as well as planning savings and all sorts of things. Once again, I think most senators will agree. We would expect from the Ministry of Finance more rational financial planning, rational spending and not leading to situations that are so extraordinary that we can't even get to know some of the solutions in detail. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, we asked I asked, and my friends. For what purpose are these funds earmarked for the recapitalisation of the State Treasury companies. That question has not been answered. It was only said that this is a trade secret, it requires different negotiations, etc. And the question of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski from the ruling party was answered in detail, that 200 million PLN goes to build ferries and to various other things. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's not right, it's just... I understand, Senator Rooster, you show time... I'm in a hurry too. I'd like to be home soon too. [[But I'm in no hurry.]] ...but you just have to pay attention to these things. So if one answers the same question in plenary, which is even more public, and at the committee meeting it is impossible because it is covered by a secret, it is something abnormal and wrong. It seems to me that the finance committee, especially the public finance committee, is in order to fully explain this type of matter, and what is a secret, let it be a secret and nobody wants to look into it, nobody wants to make it public. Of course, I have already taken away from these doubts about the purpose of spending money on this particular ferry investment, because here you can at least have doubts about the location of such a large order in a shipyard, which is virtually not there. But that's one thing. And the other one's like this. Should we build ships for shipping companies, aircraft for airlines from the state budget? If so, let's also produce buses for motor transport. Remember, gentlemen, also ladies, that not so long ago, maybe 3/4 years ago, this year, we repealed the law on the organisation of local public transport, which was to regulate local transport. So far, nothing's come out. Maybe we also need to re-accept this bill, restore this idea that we had before, start financing the production of buses, build it all up, etc. This is the way to nowhere. One password's gonna come up with something and it's gonna work according to this system. I myself come from the sea, from the sea itself, I am a marine transporter by education, so these things are familiar to me, close to me and are understandable to me. But when I see some of these ideas, I think it's what people who don't know about marine affairs do. The shipbuilding industry in Poland, I must also say, is not the worst. Of course, it is not an industry from the times of the Polish People's Republic, but if we look at what ships are produced, how they are renovated... Poland is a power when it comes to ship repair yards, and it must be seen, balanced, not said that over the last 10 or some years everything has been ruined, and that is still during the budget debate. Well, dirty. Payment of great success, paying for overwork in health care at the end of December A great success. Well, it's not a big success, because there's gonna be a lot of money to pay anyway. It has already been done in October, now in December and we say it is a success. Jan Maria Jackowski tells me that it's a success, because it's going to be a Christmas present. This isn't a joke. So just the things that are done in this way can't get absolute acceptance, because it needs reflection on each side. That's pretty much what it looks like. Once again, I ask that budgetary matters be dealt with carefully and how the budget is planned to be kept to the end. And now it's being modified, modified, several times a year. This can't be right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u65	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment I am announcing a 20-minute break, which is until 11.20. After the vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 59 to 11 minutes 20]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 653 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission proposes that amendments 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u67	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and Senator Kazimierz Klein submitted their conclusions during the discussion. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 reduces the VAT refund date for the VAT account from 25 days to 15 days. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 70 senators voted, 25 against, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] I therefore conclude that the amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 shortens the deadline for exempting VAT credits from the ordinary trader's account from 60 to 30 days. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 69 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] I therefore conclude that the amendment was rejected. Amendment 3 assumes that the formula for calculating the amount reducing the tax liability should result from a specific amount which can only be rounded to full zlotys. Who among you is in favour of the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 70 senators voted, 69 were in favour, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 16]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 3 has been accepted. Amendment 4 harmonises the provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 70 senators voted, 68 were in favour, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 17]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 4 has been accepted. Amendment 5 complements the provisions on the implementation of the accounts for the impact of VAT payments on the tax office's account. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 70 senators voted, 70 were in favour, no one was. against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 5 has been accepted. Amendment 6 clarifies that the VAT account rules will apply not only to direct debits under banking law but also to direct debits under the Payment Services Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 70 senators voted, 70 were in favour, no one was. against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 6 has been accepted. Amendment 7 is editorial. Takes into account the abbreviation of the payment service provider. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 71 senators voted, 71 were in favour, no one was. against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 7 has been accepted. Amendments 8, 10, 11 and 12 will be voted together. These amendments postpone the date of entry into force of the Act of 1 April 2018 to 1 July 2018. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 72 senators voted in favour, 72 in favour, no one voted against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] I therefore conclude that Amendments 8, 10, 11, 12 have been accepted. Amendment 9 harmonises the transitional provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 72 senators voted in favour, 72 in favour, no one voted against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 9 has been accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 72 senators voted, 70 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] Therefore, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the third item on the agenda: the Insurance Distribution Act. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 652 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission requests the support of amendments 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there senators who want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion you presented Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 1 for, 74 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] I therefore conclude that the High Senate has rejected the application. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance... No, I'm sorry. Now it's a fix, isn't it? In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 repeals the provisions providing that the broker must not remain in a permanent contractual relationship with the insurance undertaking, the reinsurance undertaking, the insurance agent or the subsidiary agent. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 25 for, 49 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 1 was rejected. Amendments 2, 3 and 5 should be voted on together. These amendments align the catalogue of grounds for withdrawing the authorisation of the auction platform by the company operating the market regulated by Regulation No 1031/2010 of the European Commission. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 74 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 26]] I therefore conclude that Amendments 2, 3 and 5 have been accepted. Amendments 4 and 6 extend the Transitional Law to the rules governing the public disclosure of pre-trade information before 3 January 2018, after which Regulation No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council will be directly applicable. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 74 senators voted, 74 for, no one was against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 27]] I therefore conclude that Amendments 4 and 6 have been accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 Senators voted, 74 in favour, no one opposed, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Insurance Distribution. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 670 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends to the High House that the amendment contained in print No 670 A be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u71	Thank you very much. Would the senator like to speak again? The motion was made during the discussion by Senator Kazimierz Klein. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 aims to allocate PLN 2 billion to national roads of importance to the defence of the State from resources for the reconstruction and technical modernisation of the Armed Forces. Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted against, 24 votes against, 50 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 29]] I therefore conclude that the High Senate rejected Amendment 1. Amendment 2 aims to make the rules for the creation of reserves in the voivodships' budgets more flexible in 2018. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 votes in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 30]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 2 was accepted by the High Senate. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 52 votes against, 23 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2018. Thank you very much. We would like to return to the 11th item on the agenda: the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. A meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 647 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Fedorovich, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! At its meeting on 6 December, the Commission examined the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on 5 December on the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Valour and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to accept the proposals set out in point 1 of point 1.13 of point II. So our amendments have been passed on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u73	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would remind you that during the discussion you presented Senator Alexander Pociej and Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. In addition, Senator Czesław Ryszka was the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 27 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 654 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u74	Dear Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration after a joint meeting yesterday on the Law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws request the adoption of the Act without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u75	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion by the senators Jan Rulewski and Piotr Florek. In addition, Senator Krzysztof Mr Frozz, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, Senator Jan Rulewski, was the committee's rapporteur. I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on Senator Piotr Flork's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 74 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] I therefore conclude that Senator Piotr Flork's motion to reject the bill was rejected. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 60 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 9 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the social security system and certain other laws. At adjournment... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 663 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends adopting amendments to the Act aimed at moving its entry into force by one year. If your Marshal allows, as a minority representative, not to be called again, I would like to say that the minority calls for the rejection of this law as an unfair social, pension-giving group of the richest citizens to a very high level and at the same time hitting the budget of the Social Security Office if it turns out that a significant part of it will escape into self-employment, striking the budget of the NFZ and reducing the budget of local governments. These are the reasons for submitting an application for rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u77	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? The conclusions were made by Senator Marek Borowski, Senator Wiesław Kilian, Senator Jan Rulewski. In turn, the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy was Senator Antoni Szymański, and the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy was Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. [[Senator Rulewski.]] [[I spoke for myself.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski? Senator Rulewski, please. [[From the spot, right?]] Yeah, right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. This tsunami bill will not save a game of appearances that intends to delay the debate on a new, unknown solution for a year. The decisive argument is that the government which issued this law We know under what conditions, right? It doesn't really exist anymore. Let the new government... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Come on...]] ...to work in the right tone. Thank you. [[Come on now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u79	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the bill, and... [[You're changing into change.]] ...then, in case of rejection of this proposal, of the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Jasia, look at the outcome of the vote.]] 74 senators voted against, 28 votes against, 41 against and 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate... In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 4 should be voted on together. These amendments are intended to extend the period of vacathio legis of the Act and enter into force on 1 January 2019 and not on 1 January 2018. Amendments 1 and 3 constitute the necessary consequences of amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 73 Senators voted, 71 for, no one opposed, two Senators abstained. [[Voting No 36]] I therefore conclude that Amendments 1 and 4 have been accepted. And we are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 48 senators voted, 41 votes against, 1 against, 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] [[There's no quorum.]] [[There's no quorum.]] In view of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, since we do not have a quorum, I manage a five-minute break. [[No, there's a quorum.]] [[Voice in the Chamber: Resume vote.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, there's no resummation of the vote, I'm sorry.]] [[And there's no interruptions during the vote.]] [[There's a break, Mrs. Marshal... there's a break.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm declaring a five-minute recess by the hour... What time is it? [[Can you tell the reason?]] [[Mrs. Marshal, we voted out. What's the reason for the recess?]] [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 44 to 11 minutes 47]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote an article. 3 (1) (a) 1 Rules of Procedure of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The Senate shall adopt resolutions by simple majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators, unless otherwise provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the laws or the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. I therefore manage the conversion of senators present in the Chamber. And this is, ladies and gentlemen, the quorum... You're welcome... [[Voice from the Chamber: Does this mean that the vote is important?]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm so sorry...]] [[The vote was already...]] [[If you don't mind... well, I have to say...]] [[In what mode?]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u80	The vote took place, Mrs. Marshal, in the same way as all other votes. [[Yes.]] In all other votes, the results of the votes shown following the vote were recognised. [[Yes.]] There's no reason to question the quorum or, in fact, the absence of a quorum during this vote... [[Now, let's get a little bit more reconnaissance...]] ...just like they weren't questioned on every previously adopted bill. There is no reason for this vote to be treated in any way other than earlier votes. Therefore, we categorically oppose, as a club, we categorically oppose any manipulation of the results of this vote. [[You're still objecting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u81	Mr. Senator, there's no manipulation here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the previous votes... Quiet, please! There was a quorum in the previous votes, and there was also a quorum in the vote, because you are in the Chamber. Art. 3 provides that the Senate shall adopt resolutions by a majority, by a simple majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. You've been and you're in the O.R. [[You were in the O.R.]] [[But you were.]] [[You've been, gentlemen, in the courtroom.]] That is also the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. [[All right, let's go.]] So, uh, I'm asking you to recalculate... [[Applause]] Please, Senator, on a formal matter. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u82	Mrs. Marshal, this provision is indeed clear, and in the presence of at least half of the senators, the Senate has made a decision, as on the ballot board, and has not passed this law. [[How did he not approve?]] [[Voices from the O.R.: He passed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u83	Did you proceed with the conversion? Has it been introduced to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: We have not passed!]] [[How did we not approve? Just a lot of...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Get out! Get out!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask you to quickly recalculate the number of senators who are in the Chamber. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, does the senator's presence count if he doesn't vote? Would you like to explain that to us?]] [[Deserters!]] [[Is it a presence or a vote?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: It is important to participate, to be in the Chamber.]] Mr. Senator, of course it's enough to participate, to be in the O.R. It's not enough to take out the ballots... [[But there's a way to justify it.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm very sorry, but the apparatus has recounted the presence.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: No!]] [[The apparatus installed here has counted the presence. Either we follow the results of the vote that this apparatus shows or we don't.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senators, please remain silent. Quiet, please! [[Targowica...]] [[But you...]] Mr. Senator, I didn't say... [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm so sorry, but...]] [[Senator Klich called on all the Senators of the Platform not to vote.]] [[...please respect the rules that are accepted by all votes.]] [[PZPR!]] I'm asking you to respect these rules as well. I didn't give you the floor. [[Voice from the room: How is everyone?]] [[Those who were present in the O.R.]] [[Count on your eye.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please take your seats. Gentlemen, the senators are counting... [[Get out!]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Recount!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Berlin! Berlin!]] [[Go to Berlin!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Czesław Ryszka sings: Cursed, rise the people of the earth! Rise, you who are hungry...]] [[Voice from the room: I suggest we take a break. We'll consult on what to do in such a situation.]] Good. Ten minutes, five minutes? [[Voice from the room: Maybe 15 minutes...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm managing a 15-minute break, and I'm asking you not to split up. What the Senators of the Civic Platform have done is reprehensible. Well, they left the room completely... [[Not all of them, not all of them.]] [[There's Senator Slugocki.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Let's be in the O.R. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let's be in the O.R. In 15 minutes... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! Ladies and gentlemen, let us not shout. There is a special situation, please remain calm. We're staying in the O.R. We'll resume the session in 15 minutes. Legislators need to consult on what further opportunities we have to use. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 52 to 12 minutes 05]] High Izbo, extend the recess until 12.20. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 05 to 12 minutes 22]] High Izbo, resume. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the social security system and certain other laws. I'm asking Secretary Mark to deliver the announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! At the order of your marshals, I checked the number of senators present in the plenary room at the time of the vote no. 36 based on the recording from the surveillance camera of the Senate meeting. My calculations show that 73 senators were present at the time of the vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u85	Thank you very much. After checking... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! [[Stop yelling.]] After checking the recordings of the sitting, I state that there were 73 senators present during the vote, 41 senators voted in favour, 1 senator against, 6 abstentions. I therefore state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and some other laws. Thank you very much. We're back to point 16 of order... [[No, no. It's a formal matter. Mrs. Marshal, I'm on a formal matter!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We voted in favour?]] There are votes, Mr. Marshal, on what formal matter? [[It's a formal matter.]] [[Yes, sir. There's no formal issue.]] Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u86	For the first time, the vote in this House is based on cameras. The bill was... [[...present. It's okay.]] [[Quiet, please.]] The bill was put to the vote and was not passed. [[Voices from the O.R.: She's still here!]] That's my interpretation. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] What you've done right now, Mrs. Marshal, is creating a completely different, out-of-the-box situation. It's completely different. It's illegal. [[Thank you very much...]] We have the right to act like this as an opposition, and we have... [[Mr. Marshal, thank you very much...]] You could have referred the bill to the committee for re-examination. This would still be in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal...]] What you have just announced is of no formal significance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much... [[The bill has not been passed.]] Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. That's your opinion. The Legal Office's opinion is different. The bill has been passed. We're voting on it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We're back on point 16... [[On a formal matter, if you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]] ...order of business... [[Mrs. Marshal, about...]] ...second reading of the draft resolution... [[Mrs. Marshal, on a formal matter!]] [[Get on the street!]] [[Don't interrupt!]] [[Mrs. Marshal!]] ...the establishment of the year 2018 The year of the 100th anniversary... [[Mrs. Marshal, on a formal matter.]] ...Catholic University... [[About the formal issue.]] ...Lubelski John Paul II. [[Mrs. Marshal, on a formal matter.]] May I remind you that there's been... [[The vote is on!]] [[The vote is on!]] Quiet, please! [[About the formal issue, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice in the Chamber: Voting is underway.]] The vote is on, Senator. [[There's no vote because...]] The vote is on. [[...that case hasn't ended yet. Mrs. Marshal...]] It's over, Mr. Senator. [[...please allow me to speak on a formal matter.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The vote is over... [[Mrs. Marshal...]] ...the bill has been passed. [[...because for the time being...]] May I remind you that it's been presented... [[Mrs. Marshal, for the first time in the history of the Senate...]] ...the committee's report on the draft resolution... [[...was challenged by your marshal...]] ...and a discussion has been held. [[...the results of the electronic vote and your marshal is aware of this...]] We proceed to the third reading. [[...that they can be challenged in the future too.]] [[Turn it off.]] [[Voice from the room: The result is the result.]] The third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution in print No 461 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[My college.]] Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted in favour, 75 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution establishing the year 2018 as the year of the 100th anniversary of the Catholic University of Lublin, John Paul. II. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the 2018 Year of Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising 1918/1919; the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the 2018 Year of Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising 1918/1919. I would like to remind you that a joint report has been presented to the committee on draft resolutions and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. The third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 579/601 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted in favour, 75 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2018 with the Year of Memory of the Wielkopolska Uprising 1918/1919. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 Year of the Truth of Poles under the birth mark. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. The third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution in print No 610 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 69 for, 1 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] Therefore, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 as the Year of Truth of Poles under the sign of the rod. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 by the Year of Independence of Poland. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. The third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 611 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 73 Senators voted, 72 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 41]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2018 as the Year of Independence of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Who held up? I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal, who was against it? You don't know?]] I don't know. We are back to discussing item 20 of the agenda... [[Speaking from the courtroom, Mrs. Marshal, Senator...]] Yes, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u88	Dear Marshal, it is clear that I can no longer correct this, but I would like to state publicly that I voted against by mistake. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u89	I understand, Senator. I see. It happens sometimes with so many votes. We are back to discussing the 20th agenda: the Power Market Act. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for amendments to the Act "Senatski Print No. 675 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 removes the obligation to publish the results of the initial auction. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 54 for, 7 against, 14 abstentions. [[Voting No 42]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 1 has been accepted. Amendment 2 allows a secondary market share of the capacity market unit allowed to participate in the capacity auction. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 55 for, 3 against, 17 abstentions. [[Voting No 43]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 2 was accepted by the Senate. Amendment 3 refers to power market units instead of physical units and aligns the rights of power market units in the first main auction. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 74 senators voted, 53 votes against, 2 against and 19 abstentions. [[Voting No 44]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 3 has been accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 53 votes against, 20 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the power market law. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of the law without any amendments to the Senate printing No 676 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] [[Okay, it's working.]] Does it work? We're voting, you're welcome. Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 73 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 50th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the next 50th Senate meeting will begin on 12 December, i.e. on Tuesday, and is planned for 12, 13, 14 and 15 December this year. The agenda for this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Jarosław Rusiecki. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, we'll wait for the senators to leave the room. [[Voice from the room: They'll cool off.]] They'll cool off, they'll leave the room, of course, those who have to leave. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Ladies and gentlemen, the statements will now be read, so please be quiet in the courtroom. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. My statement and Senator Krzysztof Słoń are addressed to the Minister of National Defence. In fact, I ask the Minister for National Defence, as well as the Minister for Development and Finance and the Minister for Infrastructure and Construction, on the implementation of the investment, i.e. Stage II of the investment task Mon.: The construction of Lvivska street bis along the national road no. 77 together with the reinforcement of the existing bridge on the Vistula river in Sandomierz. The first stage of this investment, amounting to PLN 82 million, including the construction of a new bridge, was completed in 2011. The second stage consisted of the renovation of the old bridge and the construction of the bis street in the new course, as a two-way road in the section 4 km, which was intended to meet the parameters of the main road accelerated. The implementation of the second phase was to start by 2013, unfortunately for incomprehensible reasons this investment was suspended and then decided by the coalition government of PO-PSL not included in the National Roads Construction Programme for the 2014-2020 period. The whole project ended at the construction of a new bridge, and the traffic of both bridges took place until April 2013, when due to the poor technical condition of the old, more than 60-year-old bridge was excluded from traffic. It must be stressed that the renovation of the bridge and the construction of the road Lvivska bis are not only necessary for the improvement of road traffic in Sandomierz, but also strategically important for the security of the region and defence capabilities of Poland. Thanks to the renovation of the bridge and the construction of the second thread of the road, this crossing would have the largest capacity on a significant section of the Vistula between Krakow and Warsaw. The possibility of a smooth transfer of military forces would therefore be significantly increased. Therefore, this investment is essential both for the development of road infrastructure and for the development of the region, as well as for the security of the state. Therefore, on behalf of myself and Senator Krzysztof Słoń, I ask the Minister to undertake this investment, which is extremely important for the security of the Polish state, together with the Minister for Development and Finance and with the Minister for Infrastructure and Construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska, please. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u92	Thank you very much, Marshal. My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Konstanty Radziwiłł. Dear Minister, I received a letter from patients of the hepatological coalition who were concerned about the lack of refund of rifaximin, a cure for patients awaiting liver transplantation due to incurable cirrhosis of the liver. I kindly ask you to inform me about the assessment of rifaxymin by the Transparency Council and about the plans to refund the medicine for this group of patients. Sincerely, Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator, Professor Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would like to address on behalf of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and on behalf of my own to the president of the city of Warsaw, Mrs Hanny Gronkiewicz-Waltz, in connection with the letter that we received from the rector of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University, priest Prof. Stanisław Dziekoński, on the matter of covering the bus service of the university campus on Dewajtis Street by introducing a special public transport, such an electric bus, which would best connect one of the metro stations from Dewajtis Street, which, as we know, At least all Warsawers know that. It is located on the outskirts, there is more than 1 km or about 1 km of road leading through the forest, through areas not always safe. And the most important part of the letter addressed to us is that the mentioned electric bus, which would have been introduced, would have eliminated the specific exclusion of less efficient students and workers. Especially this group of people is exposed to dangers and difficulties in reaching the university, especially in unfavorable weather conditions or after dark. Of course, this applies not only to disabled people, but in fact to all those who have to go to classes in the evening or come back from classes at the university. It seems that the request in question is as appropriate as possible. Of course, the ecological conditions of this transport would be maintained, because through the forest, of course, other cars should not drive so often. Here it seems that the best solution would be to introduce a bus on a fixed line, about every 15 and every 20 minutes. Together with Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, we ask for a clear answer to our request, and this is an answer that would be addressed to the Senate, but in which we would very much ask for it. There would be no paragraph stating that this is the responsibility of the district authorities of Warsaw. Because we don't think that kind of stuff, I'm sorry for the word, spyology was a good way not to make a decision. It is up to you, Madam President, and the President's decision would be binding here, regardless of the better or worse will of the authorities of the district of Warsaw-Bielany on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have two statements. The first statement is addressed to the president of the PKP. This is a statement of the following content. 140 years have passed since the construction of a wooden railway station in Gąsocin in the municipality of Sonsk, in the Ciechanov district. The railway station, built according to the 19th century Russian architecture, attracted attention from the beginning. Many famous Polish literature, such as Bolesław Prussia, Maria Dąbrowska, Stefan Żeromski or Henryk Sienkiewicz, came to Gąsocin to see an exquisite building for those times. Unfortunately, time has done its part. After years of use, the building is degraded. In 2008, renovation works were undertaken in the railway station building, consisting of temporary security. However, this historic building from 1877 requires comprehensive renovation in order to protect one of the last objects located on the historical route of the Vistula railway. Due to the fact that the local government does not show interest in the object, please inform whether it is possible to take over and renovate the facility. And a second statement, addressed to the Foreign Minister. In October, I addressed the Minister with a statement on the non-entry into Ukraine of Professor Partrowicz. I have received an answer to this statement, however, which does not indicate whether it is possible to achieve a satisfactory solution in this case, thus causing the withdrawal of this decision, which undermines the freedom of historical research and Polish-Ukrainian relations. At the same time I ask the question: whether also other citizens of the Republic of Poland recently I'm talking about the period from 31 August 2017 to 31 August 2017 and I'm talking about the situation that they were refused entry into the territory of the Ukrainian State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-07-senat-51-3.u97	Thank you, Senator. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Good. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the first 50th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The first sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you. [[Meeting adjourned at 12 minutes 42]]
