ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u1	I open the thirty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Marek Pęk. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the 30th and 30th first sitting, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 30th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to it, it will be adopted at the next Senate meeting. High Senate, I inform you that on 1 December 2016, the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Senate about the functioning of social inclusion centres and clubs in 2014 and 2015. It is included in print number 369. On 8 December 2016, I sent this information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The committees have read the information and informed me of it. I also inform you that on 14 November 2016, the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Senate about the situation of older people in Poland for 2015. It is contained in print No 340. On 21 November 2016, I sent this information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Commission took note of the information and informed me of it. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the first, second and third items of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these items have been submitted at a later date than set out in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading System and on Public Companies and considering it as a point of the second agenda; the Act amending the Act on Freedom of Business and to consider this item as the third item on the agenda; the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws and consider this item as the fourth item of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the thirty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. I would like to inform you that an adjournment will be ordered from 12 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. During this break, at 2:00 p.m., the exhibition will be opened. Life and work. In the century of death. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 402, and the report of the committee In print No 402 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It has been my honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances concerning the Act amending the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks and certain other laws. The primary objective of the amendment of the Act of 5 November 2009 on cooperative savings and credit banks is to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 31 July 2015. In that judgment, the Court held that Article. The 60th Act on cooperative savings and credit banks, in so far as it does not restrict the supervision measures of the Financial Supervision Commission over the activities of the banks, is incompatible with Article. 22... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please be quiet, because the noise is disturbing the report very much. You're welcome.]] ...is incompatible with Article. 22 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis According to Art. The 60th Act on the SKOK activity of the SKOKs and the National Cooperative Savings and Credit Casino is subject to supervision by the KNF in the scope and on the principles set out in the Act on the SKOK and in the Act of 21 July 2006 on the supervision of the financial market. This general rule prejudices the submission of national cashiers and cashiers to public financial supervision by a State authority competent in matters of financial market supervision, i.e. KNF, gives rise to the obligation to submit to the cashiers and cashiers to the activities of the national supervisory authority acting in the games of law and on the basis of applicable law. As far as KNF is concerned, the basic standard of competence determining the position in legal relations with cash registers, i.e. SKOK, and the national cash register... The KNF pursues its objectives through individual actions and this is the financial supervision instruments set out in the provisions of the Act on SKOK. As far as the purpose of the bill is concerned, actually... The Constitutional Tribunal drew attention to the adequacy. It is quite important to determine whether the assessment of KNF's activities in relation to different cash registers, cash registers of different sizes as financial market entities. In fact, the purpose of the bill is to distinguish between two groups of cash registers, i.e. up to 10 000 members with assets of no more than 20 million PLN and other cash registers, which are larger cash registers. As a general rule, KNF has the task of reducing systemic risk. The Constitutional Tribunal took the view that, in the case of smaller cashiers, systemic risks are significantly lower and that the current scope of supervision is not adequate to that risk. In the case of small banks, i.e. up to 10,000 members and up to 20 million PLN of assets, the scope of supervision of KNF... Perhaps otherwise: KNF's expectations for these entities were not adequate to the risks. This is mainly about the transfer of information by the cashiers to the supervisory authority in the form of quite extensive financial statements, which were quite difficult for these small cashiers due to their undeveloped organisational structure. Often they are entities with a small number of employees and a small number of members. These are often benefactors, and therefore the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled so and not so. I would like to point out that as regards this regulation amending the Act on SKOKs, it does not change the position of the national cash register, it is quite important to the position resulting from the previous Act, the Act prior to the amendment. It is also important that, with regard to the amendment of this law, the SKOKs, even the small ones, continue to be subject to the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission, and according to the Act on the SKOKs, the Commission for Financial Supervision decides which reports are to be transmitted by these funds. And that's the core of this bill. With regard to the committee's meeting, there was a discussion on the content of this novel and not only that. On the other hand, as regards the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, the Legislative Office highlighted three aspects, without proposing amendments. The Legislative Office has submitted 3 proposals for drafting amendments, but due to a short period of time... Let me point out that this is a parliamentary bill to amend the bill. In order to remain under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission, the Act must enter into force on 13 February at the latest. These proposed amendments were therefore not taken over by the members of the committee. In the course of the vote, the bill was adopted without a vote of objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u4	Senator, tell me if the discussion showed that these lower requirements of KNF for smaller SKOKs are sufficient to guarantee the security of the money and the safety of borrowers located there. I am not on this committee, but this is an important issue for us and I would like to hear this assurance. We see that they fall mainly of this kind of small SKOK-i, so the reduction of supervision should cause our natural anxiety. How was that argued at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u5	Are there any more questions? There isn't. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u6	Mr. Senator, in connection with what you said, I'd like to talk you out of your mistake. According to the statements of the representative of the committee, namely the director of the Department of Cooperative Banking and Cooperative Savings and Credit Committees of the Financial Supervision Authority, the smallest cash register, and there are 9 of them, this law will cover 9 kas. They are on the financial market of the SKOK in the best financial condition, do not implement resolution programmes, have solvency indicators above the required threshold. Besides, as I pointed out at the beginning of the report, they do not create major problems in terms of systemic risk, they do not pose a risk, because the size of their assets limited to 20 million PLN... That is, I would say, a small amount. Other entities of the SKOK market operate capital, assets of the order of billions of PLN. So that the money... The KNF representative pointed out that KNF would still be able to decide, despite the introduction of this law, the level of supervision exercised over these small cash registers. This is the result of the SKOK Act. The resources are to be adequate... As far as this law is concerned, it is about reducing the scope of reporting obligations, cyclical obligations imposed by the law and resulting from the regulations on the reporting of SKOKs. The main part, the core of this law, concerns precisely this. KNF surveillance... It is the KNF that decides the level of supervision and supervisory activities that can be covered by these small SKOKs. We're not turning that off. So there's no danger here. A representative of the Financial Supervision Commission, the director of the department, assured us at a committee meeting that he could not see such a threat. If I've exhausted my answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u7	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much. Thanks to your answer, I think we finally understand the essence of this bill.]] Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether there has been a slip of the tongue during his speech. You said that I wrote down that the equity of the small SKOKs is at the level of millions and large at the level of billions. Could you elaborate on that? Is that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u9	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u10	I can expand, Senator. You know exactly what kind of assets... Anyway, at the committee meeting... [[No...]] Yes. This is where we talk about assets up to $20 million. This amendment, in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, limits the scope of reporting in the case of such SKOKs. And the big SKOKs... The biggest SKOK operates assets in the order of billions of zloty It seems that this is about PLN 8 billion of assets. It's about the biggest money. [[Mr. Marshal, if I may...]] The equity capital... If I used that phrase, it was a slip of the tongue. It was about assets. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u11	A slip of the tongue, okay. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the meeting of the representative of the Ministry of Finance, Minister Piotr Nowak. Minister, do you want to... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: No.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing you that... [[Senator, come in.]] Senator Blackbay. Then you're welcome to speak immediately. There you go. [[Voice from the room: Already?]] Come on.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The chairman of my committee asked me to speak briefly, and I always listen to the chairman, so I will try to speak briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say two words. First of all, I would not like to interfere in this discussion. It's obvious because the bill is obvious. I am pleased that one of the senators at the committee meeting said the most important thing about this is respect for the judgments of the Constitutional Court. I think in the new year, a new step, with new ideas about respect for the law... Turning now to what happened at the committee meeting and what the rapporteur did not say, I would like to draw attention to a few things. During the discussion, the representative of the Polish Bank Association expressed the following doubts. This is the definition of a small bank, which should by nature also be a small-scale bank when it comes to human capital. He said the $10,000 limit was pretty big here. But of course it's just a remark, an observation, and that doesn't mean he filed a motion. Neither did any of us. For a reduction in the number of persons who are concentrated under such a small SKOK. But he pointed out what was probably also important. The draft of this law, as far as the small SKOKs are concerned, removes the credit committee. It's supposed to be an appearance, but it's very important. Well, in a small SKOK, it's the management board, the president... it's known that the president in a small SKOK has the most to say. He won't have to, so to speak, take into account the opinion of any credit committee which, in a cost sense, the bill is going in the right direction to reduce the costs of a small company... It's a move in the right direction, it's a shame... But this is a completely different thing, about our legislative initiative, I'm talking about the Senate here... The aim is also to take an initiative in relation to small cooperative banks on certain restrictions and facilitations. But it's like singing the future. And the liquidation of the credit committee in a small SKOK is not a good solution, and we should actually make an amendment on this. I do not submit it for one reason, but for one reason only: because, as Senator Grabowski said, there is a deadline for the entry into force of this law and I would not like to prolong the legislative process. That's one thing. And secondly, as a realist, I know the outcome of the vote. Therefore, art for art is not my motive for action. But I'm paying attention. So, in short, we're eliminating something that's costless, and certainly from a security point of view, it's a good thing, a good solution. Whatever, but the numbers. From history and from what was discussed by the High House in the previous term of office, i.e. from the speech of the head of the KNF in our House, they show that the umbrella on security over the SKOKs must be widely opened. As it compares the amounts that the Bank Guarantee Fund spent on rescuing all banks in Poland, and the amounts that were spent on rescuing SKOKs, I think the relationship is, as I recall, 1:4. Of course, in the case of SKOKs, this is the number 4. Mr. Vice-President of the Polish Bank Association also pointed out that perhaps it would be worth considering that in the future funds relating to the Banking Guarantee Fund should be distributed in some way, not mixed as one common fund. Because the situation is this: namely those who run the SKOKs, those who are shareholders and make decisions about the functioning of the SKOKs, do what they do, the result is what it is. I just want to tell you that it fell out of the mouth of the representative and the KNF, and the ministry. Only 9 SKOKs are not subject to a repair process. Ladies and gentlemen, there are, in total, 47 or 41 SKOKs, various numbers fell at the committee meeting. But let's assume that there are more than 40 of them, and for only 9 there is no repair process. I now realized that there was also a sentence that the senator said that there was no doubt about the 9 small SKOKs that they were in good condition. These numbers are the same. So for 9 small SKOKs there is no repair program, they can be considered as SKOKs and small ones. However, it turns out that the others still require this protective umbrella, not from a political point of view, as is sometimes discussed, but from an economic security point of view of all those people who keep money in SKOKs. And that's a very important thing. Well, it's a good thing they pulled out of the fabulous work of the Seym. In quotes, of course. The idea to exclude small SKOKs from supervision of KNF, which would also involve excluding from the Banking Guarantee Fund. Therefore, it is good that changes have gone in this direction. What points out, which you also did not mention to the Senator rapporteur, and the legislator... Since some of the amendments were tabled at second reading, there are no full three readings of the draft law in the Sejm, and this raises constitutional doubts. Of course, knowing your attitude towards the constitutionality of laws, I know that it went without an echo... I hope, however, that you will pay attention to the fact that... [[Who do you mean?]] That's what I'm gonna say at break. As far as issues related to this constitutional comment are concerned, this may be the subject of constitutional doubt. And one last remark. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that in this draft law there is a precise provision, in Article. 62c paragraph. 4, guidelines on how reporting should look like, what is to be applied to small SKOKs, and this is practically a provision issued to the finance minister. And very well, because the system should be clear: in relation to large we have such a way of dealing with small ones. It's like this. But it was pointed out by the KNF representative that, in relation to the small SKOKs, the national cash register may issue such a regulation on reporting as it wishes. This is unequal and mistreatment when it comes to the relations of the national cash register, small SKOK-i. I, of course, believe in the good will of national cash managers, too, that they will not expand their reporting to small SKOKs more than the Minister of Finance, but another thing is good faith and another financial result. And these financial results, the history of the SKOKs, the history of financing of all kinds of projects around the SKOKs and around companies that are related to the SKOKs, prove that good faith and trust are not enough. And finally, this is a thought to think about, which occurred to me yesterday during the committee's deliberations. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial result of Polish banks, I do not count SKOKs, for 3 quarters of 2016, that is 14 billion profit, 14 billion profit of cooperative banks and all commercial banks. I would just like to add that, despite the introduction of the banking tax, the profitability of the banks increased by 0.5% for 3 quarters compared to last year. Well, as it often rained here, we reach into deep pockets, because the richest ones have to pay, and we paid all of us who use banks... But on the other hand, it's what the senator was talking about: the assets of the SKOKs are at 22 billion, so if you assume that the conditions for lending in the SKOKs are similar to those for lending, for example. by cooperative banks and commercial banks And that's the way it is. And apply the same mechanism, then SKOK-i 3 quarters should close the profit of PLN 300 million. I leave this question unanswered: where are the profits from the functioning of SKOKs in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u13	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that today the supervision of the KNF of the SKOKs does not arouse such emotions in this House, but it is worth recalling how it was. After all, here the Law and Justice were ready to tear their robes apart, that there would be great evil if the KNF took over their supervision by the SKOK-i. And today we see that our determination, the PO-PSL government, came in time. It's a good thing we did. Because what would we say today to such a huge group of borrowers and depositaries of money in SKOKs in a situation where so many of them fall and 40 of 52 have quite a financial problem? And it's probably not over yet. To the initial 3 billion zlotys come another from the Banking Guarantee Fund. Because let us remember that the supervision of the KNF also involved the fact that the SKOK-i were covered by the umbrella of the Banking Guarantee Fund. I mean, not as many SKOKs as the clients of this cash register. That's why today you have to remind me of that moment, that decision. Because here we had very big doubts about the intentions of some senators in particular, as to whether or not they also defend their own personal interests. Because then they were directly involved in the activities of these institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the SKOK issue still raises a lot of doubts. Indeed, as Senator Czarnobaj said, it is that all those who have their money in banks are responsible for the miserable management of the SKOK. It's not entirely fair in a situation where the SKOKs generally show disputes that matter profit. Why do we all, especially those who have nothing to do with the SKOKs, when the SKOKs themselves generate 14 billion zlotys, pay for errors in this financial market sector? It seems worth considering that the SKOKs, since they want independence so badly, want to distinguish themselves from the whole banking system, create their own, sufficient safeguards and pay for their own mistakes. And not that some in the group are making very high profits, and for wrong financial decisions, they are already paying not only SKOKs but also bank clients for bankruptcy. Because let's remember that money from the Banking Guarantee Fund is our money, all of us, borrowers and depositaries, who mostly have money in banks and cooperative banks. So, ladies and gentlemen, this bill certainly... It's a good thing she's implementing the Constitutional Court's judgment, and it's a good thing we're not going too far. Thank you, Senator, for these explanations, because your answer has revealed the essence of this bill, which is worthy of support. But what I'm saying was worth reminding, too. Especially here, where, as I remember, there was so much excitement when we made the decision to oversee the Bank Guarantee Fund and the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grabowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I was not going to speak, but after Senator Czarnobaj's comments during the discussion, also after Senator Augustine's speech I would like to clarify a few points, it can clarify, correct. Senator Czarnobaj, when it comes to the assets of the SKOKs, they are, as far as I know, not 20 billion zlotys, and 17 billion zlotys if we want to be precise. This is the first case. [[But it's just a little thing.]] Second thing. You've drawn attention to the payments from the Banking Guarantee Fund. You were talking about the magic number four. I will give you a few figures on both the European and national markets, in terms of value, the volume of non-performing loans, because this is the basis of financial institutions' problems, the basis for untapped loans. The worst situation is on the Italian financial market, and also on the German market it is not the best. There are large players in the evaluation of European financial supervision who are in serious trouble. As far as the Italian Bank of Monte is concerned, dei Paschi di Siena, it has EUR 113 billion of assets, of which EUR 24 billion are at risk. As far as the Italian UniCredit is concerned, at 526 billion assets, as many as 79 billion are in jeopardy. The German Deutsche Bank has loans at risk of about 8 billion. By non-performing loans, we mean loans that are simply unpaid. These are actually accounting positions. As for the Polish Getin Bank... Because here you take great care of the SKOK market, the risks, the risks of the system generated by the SKOK institution, so I would like to point out that at Getin Noble Bank, loans at risk amount to 7 billion. This is the worst Polish bank in the assessment of European financial supervision. These are the results of stress tests. Generally, the Polish financial market is resilient, but this bank is the worst bank. Now, yes, the issue that has been raised in connection with the payment of the 4 billion zlotys from the Banking Guarantee Fund. I'd like to make one thing clear to you. Yes, the paycheck was, yes. Payments are made in specific cases, i.e. at the time of the bankruptcy, there is a 30-day deadline, there are payments of deposits collected, there is the amount guaranteed by the Bank Guarantee Fund. The fact that earlier this is also an explanation for Senator Augustine Senator Czarnobaj did not say, and Senator Augustyn probably didn't know, because it sounded as if the supervision of the Banking Fund of the Guarantee Fund or the guarantee of the Banking Fund of the Guarantee Fund was a salvation for the SKOKs. No, SKOK-i previously also had deposit guarantees. [[But they didn't have the money.]] Senator Blackbeard is smiling. [[Yeah, they didn't have any money.]] I would also like to make one thing clear to Senator Czarnobaj that 4 billion zlotys of deposits paid... [[They didn't have the money.]] There's a legal term. I'm gonna ask Senator Czarnobaj's colleague what happened to the assets of those SKOKs who declared bankruptcy. I take it we gave you $4 billion. And where are the credit liabilities, which is really the assets of the SKOKs? Where are they? They're gone? They're vaporized? In the light of the information I have, it seems that despite the bankruptcy of the borrower, the borrower continues to repay the loans, in this case the syndicate. Is it, as I'm going to say, a one-way street, we paid our deposits and 4 billion zlotys disappeared, evaporated? No, Mr. Senator. These loans are repaid and taken over by the syndicate, i.e. de facto borrowers carry out credit agreements. Nobody's talking about that. In the event of bankruptcy of large SKOKs, these assets were significant, i.e. the value of the liabilities of the borrowers vis-à-vis the LCCs was significant. As far as the activities of the Financial Supervision Commission are concerned, I would say this: in principle, it is right for me to take supervision of the KNFs in my personal opinion, but in my opinion the way in which this supervision is carried out has not been in line with the expectations of the SKOKs so far, since, in accordance with the principle attached to the KNFs, the Supervisory Board should take action to develop the financial market. Unfortunately, in the case of the SKOKs, this did not work, because the attitude of the Financial Supervision Commission was focused on the liquidation of the SKOKs. I can say with all responsibility: the Financial Supervision Committee wanted to liquidate the SKOKs. She didn't want to help them, she didn't want to look for solutions. And the systematic introduction of the commission boards to the SCUs... This should not be called a commission manager, but an winding-up officer, gentlemen of the Senators, because that is the activity of the commission managers in the SKOKs. If the gentlemen point me to one of the district attorneys who was able to help the subject, I'd appreciate it, because I don't know these cases. I know only such examples that at the time of the entrance of the commissar's manager there was a reduction in credit, de facto inhibition of... And now I have a question. Which of the financial market operators, the non-bank system, focused on... Senator Augustine or Senator Czarnobaj asked: and where are the profits, where are the profits? In fact, SKOKs are not profit-oriented institutions. This is the idea of cooperative. [[Some of them made some pretty good money.]] That's your private assessment. This is about the idea of cooperativeism. Someone, like the banks. But the bank isn't a cooperative. It gives you capital and someone lends it to you, doesn't it? If anyone, gentlemen of the Senators, stops the credit... I do not know whether you are aware and do not know whether this provision of the Financial Supervision Committee is still in force with respect to the SKOKs, but a fairly long period of time has been in force in the provisions of the KNF Directive addressed to the SKOKs, only to the SKOKs concerning the ban on the advertising of deposits. I don't know if you know that. The commission managers have been de facto exterminators of the SKOKs so far. That is not the role of the Financial Supervision Commission. In the case of cooperative banks, the supervision of the KNF was spread over time and it was in the form of such an agreement: we cover you with supervision and give you time to adjust. In the case of SKOKs, it was shock therapy. It was in 2012, when the 2009 Act entered into force, and suddenly it turned out that the KNF appeared with further expectations of the SKOKs. To conclude with this brief statement, I would like to tell you that in my view this law is as positive as possible... Oh, sorry, one more thing. Senator Czarnobaj He was concerned, of course, about the abolition of the requirement for a credit committee. Mr. Senator, according to the article. 22 of the act, the credit committee is a mandatory consultative body in the SKOK. However, the composition of this committee is subject to certain formal requirements, such as members of the Supervisory Board, members of the Management Board. Today I will no longer give an exact example, but yesterday at our committee I gave an example of one of the SKOKs, about assets of about 7 million, which together with the board employs 4 people. Including the board of directors, he employs 4 people. I would now like to ask your senator how you will set up a credit committee in such a SKOK when the authority, the board of SKOK, is shut down. Finally, there are four people employed there, including members of the board, and there is the exclusion of statutory members of the board as members of the credit committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I suggest you accept the principle of this, you go further. On something that is not the glory of Law and Justice, we wanted to go quietly and calmly, because it might be better in these SKOKs, but since you are reminded of this with your statements based on facts, I will quote you. Okay? I suggest you go to KNF 'cause there's a so-called one. the annual report. Under asset item less than PLN 16 billion is mentioned. I've already overstated it, but it's up to $20 billion for you. If we read this report... Well, please read about the Fantastic condition of SKOKs in Poland: a decrease in the number of members, a decrease in solvency, a decrease in equity capital, in all elements there is a decrease. That's what the report says. That's not my subjective assessment. My subjective assessment would be a political evaluation. Although based on facts But I'm not going to formulate it because you have to keep your voice down over the SKOKs, because maybe it's still a segment to save. This is an important segment because 2 million Poles participate in this project. I would very much ask you to pay attention to this and to your speeches based on facts. I know in politics... My professor used to say this: remember, in politics... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Well, in politics, the impression is more important than the facts. I know that you, as an educated man, know this principle, but I would ask that in the High House... You don't have to convince us politically. The report says the exact opposite of you, but apparently you wanted to say what you said. That's one thing. Secondly, I want to tell you... ♪ 'Cause you ♪ I hope that, as a result of the overspoken speech, he has confused the assets with his own funds. What I'm saying is that own funds have also fallen from 517 million to 483 million in the last year. I read it from the report, I don't take it from some discussion going on in public space. What is important, important in terms of safety, is also the solvency ratio. From what you said at the committee meeting, you were a man who, as a matter of fact, developed to build the power of the SKOKs. Well, you said you were building the power of the SKOKs. At least that's what I figured. You should know, then, that it should be based on hard data, not images. As for your comment on the credit committee, I would like to say once again that... well, I completed your speech because a bank representative said it would be a good idea if even in the smallest register there was a credit committee. What I'm trying to say again is that from what I understand, I'm sure you know better than that. It follows that the credit committee shall be recruited from the staff of the entity concerned. So if there are four people there, what's the problem with these four people being a credit committee at the same time? That's how I picture it. It's not any, I'd say, cost factor. The idea is for the SKOK board to have at its disposal the opinion of another body recruiting from the same bank, because the security of the bank is not only the safety of borrowers who keep money in the bank, but also the safety of employees. Nothing prevents such a committee from being created in a cost-free way. I neither praised nor blamed it, although personally I think it would be good if such credit committees were. I was just reporting what was presented by a representative of Polish banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Tall Izbo! I'm not really a banking specialist, but I have a good memory, and I remember working on a bill that was supposed to cover this money with a guarantee fund. Indeed, it was said that the SKOKs themselves provide guarantees to the corresponding amounts of deposits, but at the same time it was shown here that this is not covered. Later in the study it turned out that such poor financial condition of the SKOKs was among others. That's what I'm talking about. Mr. Senator, really, don't make an illusion out of it. Had it not been for that bill, if not for those moves, unfortunately a huge group of borrowers and depositaries would have been in a very difficult position and the SKOKs would in no way have been able to bear this burden themselves. So trying to suggest even that it is different is misleading and ignoring what we did here, and what was actually good for people, for specific people, because without it there would be drama.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll try to answer Senator Augustine, as it were, from the march. Senator, you're confusing two concepts: the condition of the SKOK system with the company that was in quotes. Loosely connected to the system, an independent company, that is SKOK Insurance company. It wasn't part of the SKOK system, the connection was pretty loose. The borrowers who received loans in SKOK paid a premium to this company as an insurance. And I guarantee you, at the time of the SKOK system's supervision of the Banking Guarantee Fund, this company was in good shape. What you said, in my opinion, is not justified in terms of risk. With regard to this issue, I need to make one more point. I did not want to raise this point, but earlier I pointed out that in my opinion the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority in previous years were directed towards the liquidation of the SKOK system. With great care, as I see, Senator Augustine, Senator Czarnobaj speaks about the fact that the SKOKs are being liquidated, they have repair programs, they fall. But I'd like to ask you a question. 'Cause I'm sure you senators know that in order to declare the bankruptcy of the cash register, certain statutory conditions must be met 'to which the senators will answer themselves.' Which one's the SKOK board? And I also immediately signal that the failure of the SKOK board to comply with statutory actions, i.e. not declaring bankruptcy, gives rise to criminal sanctions, because it is criminal sanctions that put SKOK into bankruptcy? I'd like to get away from the senators... Let the gentlemen answer for themselves. As I said earlier, the introduction of commission boards, de facto winding-ups, on the one hand closing completely the granting of loans, and on the other hand not receiving deposits, even to finance part of the current business, caused that these SKOKs were put into bankruptcy, but by the commissioning managers rather than by the SKOK boards. As for what Senator Czarnobaj picked up, I recommend a transcript, Senator. What you have explained is that these assets are in the order of PLN 16 billion... But it was you who used the phrase that the assets of the SKOKs were PLN 20 billion. I corrected that 17 billion zlotys, but if that's 16 billion zlotys, I won't argue. However, you have drawn attention to the report on the situation in the SKOKs. The report is in the past years and this is the result of the overlap of KNF's activities and, in principle, the limitations of the activities of SKOKs by the Financial Supervision Commission. I already said here that cooperative banks are in serious trouble too. Some cooperative banks are in very serious trouble. However, the Commission for Financial Supervision has thus given a helping hand to the cooperative banking system. They were able to communicate, and they were able to bring cooperative banks out, and they were slow to guide them, and they were also able to make amends. Here, gentlemen of the Senators, I recommend materials for the resolution of cooperative banks, showing how many cooperative banks, what equity the cooperative banks have, what assets they have. In that case, the Financial Supervision Commission stood at the level of the task, and in the cases of SKOKs it did not stand. I'm saying it with full responsibility. This was KNF's activity aimed at limiting the SKOK system, closing, liquidation. Senator, don't smile, because you did. That's what happened. That's what happened. [[Aim...]] This was the aim of the Financial Supervision Commission. [[Mr. Senator, please don't discuss this, because it's time for the senator to speak...]] Okay, I'm almost done. [[Mr. Senator, please proceed to the conclusion. Thank you very much.]] It's just about explaining the doubts of Senator Czarnobaj and Senator Augustyn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u23	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, as a correction. Because my name came up.]] As part of the corrigendum, you can... [[I know this may be unnecessary, but one sentence...]] I have the same impression. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'm not going to refer to the whole context. 'Cause I know they owe it all to KNF and people who don't like SKOK. But to what you said, quoting my statement, and the question of securing citizens' contributions to the SKOKs. You weren't in your previous term, but I can remind you From memory, I can mistake a row of greatness that... When I said "20" I meant some improvement in the image of SKOKs, because in fact it's 16 with a piece. I am addressing the issue of this guarantee fund, which the national money and the agendas associated with it have always had, so to speak, in the proposal. Do you know what the amount in this guarantee fund was? At the date of the inclusion of SKOKs under supervision of KNF it was PLN 159 million. If you understand the magic of these numbers... More than 4 billion zlotys were paid out - I do not get into who is guilty here and the guarantees were at the level of 159 million. I'll leave that to you without comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u25	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Very good condition of the SKOKs...]] [[Yes, very good condition.]] For the record, Senators Maciej Łuczak and Czesław Ryszka made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies. The text of the act is contained in print No 403 and the report of the committee In print No 403 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At its meeting yesterday, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance discussed the opinion of the Act on amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies. It was a draft law tabled by a group of Members. The law was adopted by the Sejm at its thirty-fourth meeting on 26 January 2017. The amendment of this law in practice boils down to repealing in the Act on Public Offering Art. 72, which in certain cases required a call to sign up for the sale of shares in public companies. The Legislative Office generally did not raise any objections to the Act. There was one proposal for an amendment concerning the wrong reference, but this wrong reference does not have any effect on the interpretation of these provisions. The Deputy Minister of Finance, present at the committee meeting, asked for this law to be passed without amendment and such a request was made. The bill was passed: 6 senators were in favour, 1 abstention. None of the senators at the committee meeting spoke in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u27	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Would a government representative like to speak? Minister Piotr Nowak. Minister? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: No, thank you.]] Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask the Minister a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Freedom of Economic Activity. The text of the Act is contained in print 405 and the committee report In print No 405 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour and pleasure to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the draft law amending the Law on Freedom of Business. This is a presidential bill consisting of 3 articles. The purpose of the amendment of the Law of 2 July 2004 on the freedom of business is to extend the catalogue of tasks of the State, understood as public administration, excluding judicial authorities, to create conditions for the operation and development of micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises to make an assessment of the foreseeable impact of a draft law or regulation on the activities of such enterprises. The assessment is to form a separate part of the justification for the draft law or regulation. This obligation will not apply to draft laws and regulations which do not concern the property rights and obligations of economic operators or the rights and obligations of economic operators vis-à-vis public administrations. The solution adopted by the Sejm, in the opinion of the projector, will allow the employer to adapt the regulations designed to the specific features of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The complexity of the legislation addressed to businesses, including above all tax legislation, as well as the excessive administrative and formal responsibilities, affect micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to a much greater extent than large enterprises. The Act raises no legislative objections. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn expressed his position during the committee meeting in the discussion on the proposed bill: he supported the whole content and recognised the validity of the proposed law. The Commission, on my proposal, adopted the Law without amendment and asks the High House to adopt the Act without amendment. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the president. Mr Andrzej Dera, Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, was authorised to present the position of President. The Minister is with us. Minister, do you wish to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of question to the President's representative on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. To present... [[Voice from the hall: There is still a representative of the government.]] Oh, there's a government representative, Minister Mariusz Haladyj. On behalf of the Minister for Development and Finance... Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? There's no... At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone want to ask that question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Just a little bit. Mr. Chairman here said I was speaking... Indeed, we support this law primarily because it is wrong, in this term of office, especially because so many of the laws that come to us today, too, are Parliamentary submissions. And so far, in the case of these projects, unlike in the Senate, there was no obligation to prepare an impact assessment, not only on the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, but at all. And we, as senators, were often faced with a very difficult task, and we had to assess this not only legally, but also in terms of substance, without proper documents, without proper justification. So it seems to me that it is a good thing that now the President's Office, which is also from verification and final... the President is from signing this last, most important signature before the law enters into force. Well, we were going to say colloquially, in one wheelchair, day by day, something had to be done without proper judgment. And I think it's very good that this initiative came along because Although the requirement now being imposed concerns such a sensitive place as the functioning of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, it is to be hoped, however, that if an assessment of the impact of regulation is already carried out, not only in this area but in all areas. As we do in the Senate, when we want to put forward an initiative, we have imposed a much broader obligation on ourselves. It is worth recalling this in this House, because we can show ourselves that at least we are very meticulous, reliable. In the legal office a special cell was created to prepare impact assessments for each senate submission. Once again, the conclusion is this: this is a very good presentation, worthy of support, we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 407, and the report of the committee In print No 407 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Joint Committees, the law adopted by the Sejm on amending the Penal Code and some other laws were considered, which generally concerns the introduction of criminal liability for VAT fraud by various types of companies, very often fictitious, created only to carry out fictitious, one-off transactions and then to obtain, in this case, a VAT refund. The bill aims to put an end to those practices that are unfortunately increasing. The justification for the government project shows that the scale of fraud is increasing in progress almost geometrically. Because as in 2012 it was several billion zlotys, so in 2016 the amount of 80 billion zlotys was exceeded, which represents almost 1/5 of the state budget. And this causes a very difficult situation for the state budget, i.e. it already poses a threat at national level, a threat to the proper functioning of the state. Therefore, strict regulations have been introduced. With regard to crimes for which the value of extortion is greater than, as I recall, 10 million zlotys, the maximum penalty provided for in the Penal Code is, I remind you, up to 25 years imprisonment. It was this issue of punishment that was perhaps the most important point of the dispute at the committee's meeting, because some senators believe that because 25 years of imprisonment is the punishment that is intended to be the most dangerous and cruel crime that is to deprive a man of his life... Because, I remind you, from the moment the death penalty was lifted, the maximum sentence foreseen for man's deprivation of life is, of course, life sentence, and where it comes to the dimension of years, it is the 25-year sentence of imprisonment. And there was a discussion as to whether, in this case, it was not too severe a punishment. It was therefore even proposed to reject this law. This proposal did not pass and the proposal to accept the law without amendments was accepted in the course of the vote. That's what it would look like. As far as any questions are concerned, I am prepared to answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u33	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission... [[Excuse me, can I ask you a question?]] Mr. Senator, we're gonna hear two reports and then we're gonna have questions. [[I'm sorry.]] I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday there was actually a long discussion at the committee meeting, sometimes it was conducted, so to speak, with an increased level of adrenaline. This was because the question of the level of penalties and, in our opinion, the inadequate rules that I am about to say have caused the discussion to go in the wrong direction. Because, in our opinion, we should talk primarily about the compensation of damage, including the confiscation of property, as regards the taking of property of high value. Meanwhile, in the article. 271a, you might want to pay attention. The following shall be stated in §2: if the perpetrator has committed the act referred to in §1 against an invoice or invoices containing the total amount of the claim, the value or total value of which is greater than five times the amount of the amount determining the property of great value, or has made the offence a permanent source of income, he shall be punishable by imprisonment for no less than three years. And that's it. That's what I'm talking about on purpose. The next article is an article. 277, where it is said that in cases where the value or the total value is greater than ten times the value of the value, a sentence of imprisonment shall be imposed for a period of not less than five years or 25 years of imprisonment. And where is this about repairing the damage? That's not there. The Minister told us yesterday that it would be in a separate regulation or a separate law. We think there's a warrant, and it has to be brought together... Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we're just gonna fix the damage and fix the budget. The Minister also spoke yesterday, answering our questions, about other countries where they are much larger, more vulnerable, longer penalties. Meanwhile, as far as we know, in other countries, at least European, there is an absolute order to remedy the damage. Besides, there's internal incoherence, because in the case of... Please pay attention to Art. 277a, 277c and 277d, which we noticed yesterday. It is basically about the primacy of the prosecution's decision on the decisions of the courts, because it is not about the relief, exceptional relief of punishment against the perpetrator, if he reveals all the relevant circumstances of the crime, and it will also indicate the actions in relation to the crimes committed by him and their perpetrators before the authority finds out about him. We don't have a word about repairing the damage again, but we do have... I fear here the situation known, among others. In order to avoid a repeat of the story, it was not so that the prosecutor could once again arrange for a successful company and unpunishedly destroy people. This is a serious concern, for in the article. The 277d provision makes it clear that the provisions of the Article. 277c §1 and 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the perpetrator who, following the initiation of the proceedings, has disclosed to the criminal authority all known to him and the relevant circumstances of the offence which have not yet been known to that authority, and has identified the acts which he or she has committed and the perpetrators of the crime. Ladies and gentlemen, our concerns are that there may just be cases... Maybe I'll give you an example. A partner of a company who will be held in custody with this suspicion will be proposed by your prosecutor, who will visit him in an investigative arrest, mitigate the penalty. The D.A.'s gonna soften him up a little bit and say, "You know, there's an extraordinary way to relieve punishment." If you point here, sir. New circumstances, please. Therefore, it may be... any defendant may confabulate, but it may also add essential elements of the case that will cause the person incarcerated to receive an extraordinary relaxation of punishment. Meanwhile, according to Art. 277c this person can be talked about and will not have the opportunity to defend himself. Moreover, so far, it has been the court, at the request of the prosecution, either that it has resigned or that it has applied an extraordinary leniency against the perpetrator. Those were the rules so far. Following the proper judicial lead, the court assessed the case and issued judgments on the basis of it. This provision in the article is dangerous. 277c in §1, stating that the court, at the request of the prosecutor, applies an exceptional leniency against the perpetrator of the offence referred to in the relevant paragraph, which notified him to the authority appointed to prosecute the crime and revealed all relevant circumstances of the crime. So the court at the prosecutor's request... the court doesn't judge itself, there has to be an evaluation of the prosecutor. So he's the D.A.'s primacy again. Not at all in the article. 277c is still being referred to as the prosecutor's primacy on the courts, because the court, at the request of the prosecutor, may waive the sentence against the perpetrator, may apply an extraordinary relaxation of the sentence, but we are talking here. only and only upon request of the court can do so at the request of the prosecutor, only then. There's nothing all the time. And that's what we're talking about. It's about repairing the damage. Of course the Minister is in the courtroom... It is a pity that there is no Minister who presented this bill to us yesterday, but I hope that the Minister will also give us answers. Why is there really this internal injustice of judgment? 'Cause if it's like someone's gonna fix the damage, but if you're sorry, he's not gonna tell the DA, he's gonna be in a much worse position. Why don't we bet on compensation, but above all on the use of draconian judgments, which we said were that 25 years in prison in our codes and in our legislation is intended for probably the worst crimes, i.e. murders, murders, etc., etc., etc.? I have the impression that it's just some kind of attempt by the government to show that we're fighting pathology, but there are probably no basic criminal laws here that would order... including the confiscation of assets. I'm afraid of one thing: those who actually... Because I haven't heard of anyone being handcuffed on the basis of the laws we have today; someone not paying or cheating being carried out in handcuffs. And this will go to consciousness, as well as confiscation of property, rather than 25 years in prison. Because it's not that kind of restriction... I'm afraid. I'll add that to the end. It's going to be the same thing again as before, that someone for not entering a watch will be politically arranged, so to speak, to the end, and for a helicopter or a barn, the D.A. will drop the proceedings. Because maybe somebody's gonna be uncomfortable. That's what I'm afraid of. So first of all, as I say, restrictions are too high. And when it comes to the confiscation of property, it doesn't convince me, Minister... Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like you to pay attention to this. Let's make it consistent. Let's either confiscate it or have to make amends, not... In a while, there'll be a penalty rule, and now it's up to you to say it's up to you to piss off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u35	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, please. Tell me immediately which of the Senators is the question to which of the rapporteurs. [[To see the Senator, the rapporteur, Cichoń. Is it?]] [[There it is.]] Senator Zbigniew Cichonia. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u36	There's the senator. The senator said that the issue of the inevitability of the penalty was raised during the committee's deliberations. Are there any decisions in this submission that would increase the enforcement of the rules in this area? What I observe today is, for example, the case of Senator Stokłos, which is that it is not possible to successfully condemn prominent, rich people. And it's about property of great value that's been seized. People who have money. So are there regulations... We can write it down for 100 years, but if there's no law that makes it more effective, it's not gonna do much good. Is that what you're talking about? And are there cases? [[Of course, the discussion was...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u37	Senator, if you'll excuse me, sir... I would also ask you to ask Senator Piotr Ziientarski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u38	Mr. Senator, I'm concerned about the basic issue of art. 277c, which lists 3 paragraphs as the basis for an extraordinary relaxation of the penalty. And that's what the senator was talking about on the occasion of a minority motion, and she said it was very questionable. My doubt is fundamental. Are these provisions on exceptional relief of penalties lex specialis to the general provisions on exceptional relief of penalties, those on the general part, or is the general part, so to speak, in effect? Because in the situation we have here, there are doubts that Senator Sztark was talking about, that the D.A. will actually decide whether or not the court will have to... Well, the D.A. will decide whether or not extraordinary easing is appropriate, even though we have general rules that provide a separate basis, because compensation is given, but also the disclosure of circumstances that he did not know about as a prerequisite for extraordinary relief of punishment. It's optional, and here's the obligation, and it's only at the prosecutor's request. I am interested in the relationship of the rules, whether or not this excludes the part of the overall extraordinary relief of the penalty.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u39	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go. And then the senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, you have provoked your invitation to ask questions. You have provoked me in particular because you perform not only the obvious, but also the good functions of a patron, so the person known not only with conviction, but also with the execution of punishment. You mentioned there was a discussion about softening... I don't think that's true. You're not discussing it. No one's talking about not punishing or chasing. However, it was asked whether such a high sentence would even enable it to be executed, or whether it would not have the opposite effect, i.e. that this person would burden the Treasury instead of, as Senator Shark here says, repairing the damage, returning the money. What is your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u41	Thank you very much. I'm asking the senator to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u42	I may combine the first and third questions, because they are linked and relate to the issue of the effectiveness of combating such crimes. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is outside the discussion that it is generally accepted in criminal law considerations that not so much the severity of punishment determines that people are deterred from committing crimes as the inevitability of punishment. For every criminal who commits even the most cruel and punishable crime commits it, hoping that he will not be detected; this is an obvious matter. That is why he is more afraid that his crime will be detected and punished than a very severe punishment if he sees or hopes that the police and the justice system will function so that he will not be detected and will ultimately not be punished. So it's an undisputed matter. As far as the issue of the sentence is concerned, I, contrary to what you say, Senator Rulewski, have referred to the fact that the discussion was mostly about this and the reservations were that this punishment of 25 years of imprisonment, which is actually the most severe punishment in addition to the sentence of life imprisonment, was considered to be the penalty of 25 years of imprisonment. This was the opinion of many of the participants in the discussion, and it is too harsh. So that I think that in my first speech I gave that very thought, but now I repeat it. As for the question of your patron... your patron and senator, it is me, as it is a really passionate problem, I would like to remind you of one thing. Namely, in addition to this regulation, which we are introducing here on the grounds of the application of an extraordinary relaxation of the penalty, there is, I would like to remind you, a general regulation in the Penal Code in Article. 60, which is just among others. refers to specific regulations. Because this article, which is generally concerned with the exceptional relaxation of the penalty, is that the court may apply an exceptional relaxation of the penalty in the cases provided for by the law and in relation to the juvenile, etc., and then there are indications that the court may also apply an extraordinary relaxation of the penalty when even the lowest penalty provided for for the offence would be disproportionately severe, especially if the victim was reconciled with the perpetrator, because of the attitude of the perpetrator... Well, the third case I'm not going to mention, because this is about an involuntary crime, and here we're thinking about crimes that can only be committed on purpose. So that, in my opinion, one does not preclude one another, i.e. the general principles resulting from the article. 60 criminal codes are still in force, and here is the case referred to in Article. 60 that exceptional relief may be applied in the cases provided for in the Act. It is precisely in this law which has been adopted that there is a specific case where a relaxation can be applied, which, as I repeat, does not preclude the application of the general principles of the Article. 60 criminal code. At least that's how I feel about it. If anybody thinks otherwise, please take any discussion with me and I will be happy to hear other arguments. Here, of course, the difference is... After hearing Senator Sztark's statement, one can really consider whether the application provided for in the law that was passed is not very fortunate only at the request of the prosecutor. Because you can really wonder: since the general rule is that the court has the right to apply it, can you only restrict it to such cases when... that it can only be at the request of the prosecutor? [[Exactly.]] Indeed, it is worth considering this, because it seems that general principles, which are enshrined in the article, have been violated here. 60 criminal code. The question is whether we really want to do this and whether it is really right that the dominus litis should be a prosecutor rather than a court, as it is generally accepted in all procedures. With regard to the grounds for extraordinary relief, it seems that they are reasonable here and because they do not exclude general grounds from the Penal Code, there is no objection to them. [[It's just an offer, too.]] Although, as I say, another argument can be used, because someone can say that since they are separately regulated, it can be treated as a lex specialis against the article. 60 only in these cases would it be possible to... [[Exactly.]] ...the application of this extraordinary relief of punishment. [[Hence my doubt as well. I'll ask the minister...]] Mr. Senator, your patronage... It must be considered whether such reasoning is legitimate here. [[Exactly.]] As a good lawyer, you have seen a problem that will actually be solved, but I think this solution should go in such a way that the general principles are not excluded. [[Exactly.]] [[But are they...]] [[I'll ask the minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u43	Thank you very much. [[I didn't get an answer.]] Senator Rulewski still has a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u44	I understand what you said about the committee's work. This answer is not open to discussion, but there was also a question about your attitude as a patron of the upper limit of the maximum... [[He already told me.]] No, he didn't. [[He did.]] No. [[He did.]] [[He's already answered.]] Yes? [[I already told you.]] [[You've already told the senator.]] Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u45	Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. The question is asked by Senator Piotr Zientarski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u46	Mr. Senator! I would like to know the position of you, as I would say, the representative of this submission as to... It's about §14, so-called. vocabulary, i.e. explanations of statutory terms in the article. 115, and §14a, where we have defined documents. It is known that the document This remains the same as any object or other recorded medium of information to which a particular law is linked. And here comes §14a, where it says that the invoice is a document... In my opinion, the invoice is a document, because it is bound by a certain law, and at the same time constitutes the content, proof of the law. In my opinion, it is unnecessary... but here we are dealing with exceptional casuistics, that is to say... it is as if other invoices are being turned off. I understand that at the moment the document will only be a vat invoice, and other invoices will not be a document. My question is: why is it so? Why just a vato invoice? Have you met with this casuistics in the Penal Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u47	Thank you. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u48	I'll answer that, Mr. Senator, I just have to find one, and one, and the other... Mr. Senator, I don't think you've noticed one thing, which is that this is where the definition of invoice is introduced, while so far it's just... [[But only the vato invoice...]] ...the formulation of what is considered to be a document. And since this is a criminal case for tax fraud... Well, necessarily, the most common way to extort a tax is by issuing an invoice, and that is why it is necessary to specify exactly what is considered an invoice. It seems to me that this is a deliberate regulation, so that in the interpretation of these articles we do not find out that it is not known what is meant by the invoice which is mentioned in the content of these criminal provisions. [[But, Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, I'm going to ask you a complimentary question, here it is said that the invoice is only a vat document. That's the question. So, all of them...]] I wouldn't be sure. [[Well, the invoice shall be the document referred to in Article. 2 Act on the tax on goods and services.]] Okay, but just because he's in there... [[So another invoice isn't a document, right?]] No. [[Gentlemen, there is a formula: the senator asks a question, and the senator answers the question.]] Easy, easy, Mr. Counselor. [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.]] Here is a definition which merely refers to the act on the tax on goods and services, which does not mean that another invoice... that there are no other documents which are invoices within the meaning of the Act on the tax on goods and services. In view of the objectives of this law, which we are implementing, namely the Penalization of these acts, the definition of invoice is introduced here. And notice... I can honestly say that I have not read exactly the Goods and Services Tax Act now, but in general I remember that there this definition of invoice is quite broad and it is not limited only to the wording which can be used for the purposes of that law. As you can see, we are now transferring the wording from just this law on the tax on goods and services to the criminal code, introducing this §14a. This is merely a technical regulation, which is understood by the invoice, because we introduce criminality for issuing precisely these invoices, which lead to extortion of VAT refunds.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u49	Thank you very much. [[Senator Piotr Zientarski: But §14 speaks about the document, not about the invoice.)]] [[Please?]] [[But it's not a discussion.]] [[§14 contains the authentic interpretation of the document.]] [[No, invoices.]] [[No, a document. §14...]] Gentlemen, you're going into polemics... [[A §14... aha...]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no room for politics here. The senator's asking... [[No, it's not politics.]] ...he asked a question, and the senator answered. Does anyone else have any questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? No. Thank you very much. [[I'll ask the minister.]] [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Michał Wójcik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, is with us. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. You're welcome, Minister. Sir, I'd like you to come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u50	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! Today, as a substitute for Minister Marcin Warchoł, I allow myself to present our point of view on all these accusations, doubts. I would like to address some of the concerns raised during the legislative process. First of all, I would like to say that we need this bill, and very much so, because this fight we have been fighting over the past few years is actually a fight against windmills, we have practically lost this fight. And anyone who analyzes, for example, certain recommendations that have been made by different institutions The question of VAT fraud is examined by the European Commission, for example, knows very well that the Polish system is particularly leaky. This is the problem of the flow from our system, from our budget, which is actually stealing from all of us, and it is on a gigantic scale, reaching up to PLN 60 billion. It is estimated that this could be the amount of PLN 40.60 billion. Well, as far as the 2017 budget is concerned, we are talking about a deficit of PLN 59 billion. In fact, we could say that we are a very rich country, a very rich society. If it weren't for one problem. Well, we have to fight for every dollar, we have to fight for money for culture, for infrastructure, for various important social issues, but unfortunately we cannot fight against VAT fraud. Unfortunately, we are at the top of the European agenda in this respect. We're just losing. We also have a huge tax gap, twice the EU average. We do not agree at all with countries such as Finland, where this problem is at 4% GDP. We have twice as many gaps as the EU average. We've just been losing this fight for years, and it affects every single one of us, no matter how political we feel. Today we put solutions on the table, which are primarily not aimed at honest taxpayers, are in no way aimed at entrepreneurs. Often during the legislative process it was possible to hear that this is aimed at entrepreneurs, who, for example. They made a mistake in issuing an invoice. To err is human and it is obvious that such situations happen, but here the design of this crime is unambiguous. This is a deliberate crime. Someone must want to extort this VAT, i.e. provide for such an act or simply accept it. It's either a direct intention or a possible intention. And there's no doubt about it. Mrs. Senator, I have listened with great care to the statement on compensation, damage, damage and how to compensate for it. Well, of course, we're talking about damage in terms of property benefit. We use a different wording here, but we must remember that this ruling is a preliminary ruling for the tax authority. And there is no doubt that, in the context of this proceeding, the damage will be very carefully determined as to the value of the zloty. As a rule, this solution is simply needed. We're talking here. in fact, about the fight against crime, with criminals who used the fact that the reduction of the government's budget had to be very carefully defined. If the proceedings were being conducted, they had to be suspended and referred to the tax authority, which, as regards the zloty, determined how large this loss of public debt was, only that it took months and sometimes longer. In practice, this meant that there was nothing left to collect, because these organized groups used that time. So there's got to be a quick action here. This bill, which we put on the table, is about issues relating to crimes against documents. It's a completely different design. We are interested in what is on the invoice: the value of the goods, the value of the service. We are not interested at this moment in the actual depletion of the state budget. We are interested in the fact that there has been an attack on the document, a very important document, and thus in fact an attack on the foundations of the state. Organized groups used it. This is not the problem of honest entrepreneurs, honest taxpayers. This is the problem of gangs, organized crime, often international gangs. A few weeks ago, a gang was broken up, which extorted about PLN 1 billion 200 million. It was a gang that operated in different countries and was worked out by law enforcement agencies from more than a dozen countries. This happened at the time when we started discussing these solutions in Parliament. That's what happened. There's a lot of gangs like that, and that money's really big. We need to know what kind of opponent we have, and we often get into that kind of discussion... I'm not saying that they're not needed, because it's really about the law being good, but we're wondering why invoices, if this definition is good, how does that apply to documents, etc., and they don't have those doubts. Using the knowledge of people who are very good lawyers, economists, financiers, accountants, simply brutally exploit every gap that is in our law to draw money. Of course, most of the questions will probably be about whether they already dealt with the issue of sanctions, the amount of penalties. In fact, it's supposed to act as a deterrent. 'Cause the question is You will soon have such a law on drunk drivers How much more can we really discuss about the inevitability of punishment? By the way, Amber Gold, we can see what this inevitability of punishment or other things is like. I don't want to go into politics at all, because there's no need, but sometimes we can get caught up in a discussion about the inevitability of punishment. Punishment must be repressive, repelling, it also performs other functions. They must be afraid of us. They're supposed to be scared of the state, and we're not supposed to be scared of them, which is organized crime groups, criminals. They have no sentiments and exploit the gaps. And here's the giant money. And as we look at the statistics, unfortunately, we see that when it comes to those involved, the extortion of millions, tens of millions of zlotys from the state budget, the penalties are extremely mild. Well, the statistics show clearly, the prosecution has conducted such research that in two years there were probably 230 convicts. How much is he in? Thirty pairs. So I'm sorry, how are we supposed to fight this crime? They must just be scared. And that's where the proposal came from. But we're making ways for each other. This is a matter of extraordinary relaxation of the penalty, the possibility of withdrawing from the penalty, but also, for example, a case of minor importance which arises in these arrangements. Because there are different situations, and that's true. Because the damage to the real estate of the State, the public debt to the State Treasury, may be quite different from what we are discussing in connection with this proceeding, actually fighting crime against specific documents, against invoices against VAT fraud. And then, in fact, there could be a minor case here. So that's the way we leave it. I would have a great request to your senators to simply accept these solutions. We need to have an instrument of this kind once the new tax administration is in place. I think we're gonna have an instrument that we can evaluate after a while, if we actually... And how do you judge him? Yeah, or more money stays in the state budget. And it's worth sealing the system. The year 2016 showed that there are more tax revenues to the state budget, and you know that, several billion, this did not come from itself. But it can't be that there's growth and tax revenues are decreasing. It's also a problem of empty invoices etc... Didn't somebody just take advantage of... Well, I'm sure he was using it, just the question of the extent to which he used the system's leaks. It is time to fight this, and that is why we put these solutions on the table, asking you to support us in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u51	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u52	Thank you. I return to the previous question, to which I received such a semi-positive answer from the rapporteur, Counselor Cichoń, but I also want to ask you this question, which is not due to the concern for criminals, and I even agree with your statements that the punishment must really deter... Nevertheless, I would like to ask you if you do not think that the maximum penalty, if applied, of 25 years in prison, will actually be another burden on the state budget, because, frankly, a person with such a sentence of the right age is a wreck and requires enormous help. Second question. You mentioned, and very well that there are these small crimes, and this regulation defines it, distinguishes it, but also the most dangerous, organized ones. But I don't see the distinction between an individual act of fraud, forgery and the action of an organized group... If individual, then I think you can take this fight, but if organized, then undoubtedly this fight is harder, tougher, requires other methods. But why is there no distinction in this show?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u53	Thank you very much. And Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u54	Minister, I'll repeat the question I asked... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: There you go, Mr. Counselor.]] ...Senator Cichoni, because you said you'd share the doubts you've heard about, but you didn't answer that question directly. Whether the institution of exceptional relief of the penalty in the general part is applied in parallel or those provisions in Article. 277c on extraordinary relaxation are lex specialis? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine isn't here, so he's gonna ask you a question. You're welcome. Senator Grażyna Sztark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u56	Thank you very much. Minister, I'll tell you something at first. I have friends in Finland. Once, when I was at their place, a driver who was 50 on the meter, because for two years after he got his driver's license, he had to drive like this, and he was at 5 km/h, and Believe me, my friends have taken their head. I said, why? They said, 'cause, you know, his driver's license is gonna be back and it's gonna cost him twice as much as it costs our saab. And that's exactly what we're talking about: that it's about the inevitability and the repair of the damage, compensation fully, not the maintenance of Senator Rulewski here. For the next 10 or 15 years of the man who brought out the money, that is, he put the Treasury at risk, that is, us, at great losses. But I wouldn't have said anything... And that's my question. It's about the primacy of the D.A.'s office. Tell me if we're worried about this article. 277c are kind of high-strung? Do you agree, however, that the court has so far been the one who could apply all these provisions of §1, 2 and 3? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. And I ask the Minister to answer the senator's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u58	I'll start by asking Senator Rulewski. Punishment of 25 years of imprisonment. It is indeed a separate genre punishment, very high, but, Mr. Senator, art. 310 criminal code on counterfeiting, counterfeiting... [[It's money.]] ...a ten-dollar bill, Mr. Senator... a ten-dollar bill you're forging... I mean, not you. I'm sorry. Someone's forging... [[It didn't happen to me.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I can't. I can't.]] [[He never learned.]] Even if he wants to do it for himself... [[No, less weight is, Minister.]] Let him even for himself, which means he's not going to let it go public. What's the punishment? 25 years deprivation of liberty. [[No, then it's less weight.]] But, I'm sorry, as a rule, you can punish as much as 25 years of imprisonment. Counselor, the senator says there's more weight... [[Never mind.]] Yeah, less weight. But here... [[Predicts less weight.]] Yeah, that's true, because in art. 310 I think the highest penalty was 17 years old, as I recall, we'd have to check it out. Of course the penalties are much lower, but the issue is very similar. It's the court that's gonna judge that. The court must be given an opportunity to punish the most dangerous criminals for this crime, e.g. Five years of imprisonment or 15 years, maybe 25 years. Here, no one imposes this on the court, only the possibility of a sentence of 25 years imprisonment. I'm comparing this to another crime, for example, a counterfeit bill. Because it's a crime that can be punished so severely because it's against the foundations of the state. Whether it's forgery of money or it's a vat extortion, that's it. In fact, a powerful blow to the foundations of the state. That's why this punishment is very high. Of course, she's supposed to act as a deterrent. It's obvious. But let's take the example of the United States and Bernard Madoff. How many years has he been sentenced to? [[150.]] For 150 years. [[He's leaving after 7:00.]] Great Britain and the economic conspiracy, because it's about VAT fraud... yes, we are a country that will have a very repressive system. But how can an economic conspiracy be punished in Britain? Life! Of course, these penalties are lower for VAT fraud. But we have a problem with that. In Finland, they don't have to have such a repressive law. We have to have them, in my opinion, because our fight has been ineffective for years. Today we have to fight for those young people who are at the gallery now, so that they live in a country where we don't have to watch every moment where the gold is for the educational system, for that, for that, because we don't have the money. Let's fight this crime. This is a very serious crime and therefore there are proposals for very serious penalties. As for this individualization or grouping, it is a matter of judging, Mr... Because I don't know if I understood the senator correctly... [[Yeah, yeah, okay.]] It's a matter of judging. Well, punishment in each particular case will, of course, be individualized. I even talked to the head of our department, once, when I started reading this project, and I asked: Mr. Warden, tell me, what does this classic vat merry-go-round look like?. And he said, let's make another appointment, because it's a long story. Sometimes we don't know where it starts, where it ends, who's the pole, who's on the way. It's so organized crime, it's sometimes so smart that such a case is a really big challenge for prosecutors, a big challenge for judges. Besides, I'm a very hot fan of specialization, it's very important because in order to fight a really big criminal caliber, you need to have really great knowledge about this, specialized knowledge. And we know how it sometimes looks in the judiciary, in the D.A.'s office, that these economic matters are sometimes put aside, because they are very difficult, complicated. Well, that's a further question of how to specialize in law enforcement or the D.A.'s office. Your patron's question about the extraordinary relaxation of punishment. Yeah, it's lex specialis. This is lex specialis, Counselor. That's the answer to that question. The Finnish issue. I'm sure there'll be a bill here soon, which... solutions that will concern drunk drivers, and we'll talk about it, about the repressiveness of penalties. Because I wish there was a system like that in Finland, where drivers punish themselves in proportion to their wages. But this is, I'm sorry, just my opinion, not the government, on this matter I can only express my individual opinion, that is not the position of the government at all. Finland certainly has no problem with VAT fraud. But he has a repressive right, Senator. See that she has a repressive right. Just like you gave me an example of a fight against drivers who drink, exceed speed, etc... There's a very repressive law, a penalty proportional to the salary, as I recall. And also the issue of this extraordinary relief of punishment. Well, art. 60... because I don't know if I understood that question correctly. [[Art. 60 in conjunction with Article. 277c, Minister. How does this apply to this extraordinary relief of punishment? Is it the primacy of the court or the primacy of the prosecutor of the court?]] But there's no prosecutor's primacy here. Except it's the D.A. who has a very thorough knowledge of the investigation into this, well... [[But it's simple, Mr. Minister, because as I say, I'm still referring to...]] But there is, too, Senator... [[Yes?]] ...art. 60 §4... [[Well, that's it.]] ...for example. Yeah, well, it corresponds.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u59	But you were talking about lex specialis in that case. Is this also where the lex specialis is used? Isn't there an exclusion of this particular article? 60? Because if anybody decides, a repentant criminal decides to speak, but in court, not in front of the prosecutor, then what? Did... Because it's only written here: court at the prosecutor's request. Please note that only at the request of the prosecutor. It's about the concerns or the art. 60 continue to apply in the case of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u60	Again, this is lex specialis. But I'm also referring to the article again. 60 §4, where there is exactly the same provision: on the application of the prosecutor, the court may apply an exceptional relaxation of the penalty. There was no discussion about the prosecutor's primacy in court, under any circumstances. However, the prosecutor has the greatest knowledge of the proceedings, and there is no doubt about it, especially in such cases where various types of crime are connected. So I think it's too far-reaching a conclusion. [[And at whose request?]] At the prosecutor's request. [[And on my own initiative...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] No. [[Voices from the hall: Exactly.]] [[And the defense? He's got...]] At the prosecutor's request. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u61	Calm down, please. [[It's important.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next Question Time. First, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u62	Minister, we got this bill pretty late, and it was added on the agenda, so there was no chance of getting to know it. From the discussion we have I'm not a member of the committee responsible, which is why I'm asking you that this is about crimes, as you said, against documents, specifically VAT invoices. My question is whether it is just VAT fraud or fraud in the form of avoidance of other taxes, e.g. income tax? 'Cause there's a lot of abuse here, too. I have the impression that we are focusing on one kind of tax, indeed, to the one who is actually responsible for the greatest revenue to the state budget, and we are forgetting others. Does this regulation apply to all liabilities or public debts or only due to VAT?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u64	I would like to get an exact answer, Minister. I'm still on the subject of this article. 60 and Article 60 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, And now the second question. Yesterday, Minister Warchoł said that there would be separate legislation to remedy the damage. Tell me why you can't. Was it in the same bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question as to whether there are any simulations or assumptions as to whether the introduction of these new solutions into the penal code will in some way stop this carousel. As we have heard, it is estimated that the losses here are in the range of PLN 80 billion per year, hence it seems that the equalization of the crime of falsifying vat invoices with counterfeiting of means of payment is, as I understand it, the philosophy of this regulation. It is absolutely justified because we are dealing with a frightening scale of this phenomenon. But are there any assumptions yet? Could the Minister give any figures in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, about the idea of this bill. Absolutely agree, money is needed for social programs. Sealing the system is absolutely necessary. However, I do know one example that raises my concerns, which is why I would ask for an explanation. Namely, in October 2015 Lotus was charged by the Tax Control Office in Bydgoszcz with a penalty of PLN 240 million. For tax fraud he didn't commit. They were committed by his contractors, Lotus just didn't check them out. I don't know if he paid, anyway, the IRS demanded payment for these contractors. The question is: will such a case fall within the scope of this law, or will the entities that will participate unconsciously in the tax carousel have to respond on the basis of the provisions of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u70	We have been asking here, Minister, about this extraordinary relaxation of punishment, I have clarified this question and only then the Minister replied that it is only at the request of the prosecutor. My question is this: is this a rule in the Penal Code that an extraordinary relaxation of the penalty can only be done at the request of the prosecutor, or is there a number of other situations in which the court can, on its own initiative, apply an extraordinary relaxation of the penalty? And if there is a second possibility, why is this not the case?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u71	Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u72	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have such a question to ask... because, as far as we're concerned, let's say, about the issue of punishment, we can regulate there, more or less... But I'm interested... Well, somebody figured it out: I'm gonna do a crime, say, 100 million zlotys, for that amount, I'm gonna sit for 15 years, and then, when I get out, me and my family are gonna be living really well together. What is the issue of return, taking what was taken, what was stolen? Is this even considered, or is there any way that all that's been stolen will come back? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u73	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u74	Can I go from the end, Mr. Marshal? [[Suit yourself.]] I'll try from the end. Once again, we are talking about a preliminary ruling for proceedings before the tax authority. That's where the damage is calculated exactly as to the gold. And it's a matter of saying life, whether it's possible to take out the money or not. But what we're talking about... There is no question of judgment by the court or by the prosecutor, which specifically, as regards the gold, the damage has been caused, to what harm we are dealing with. This is the role of the tax authorities. Yes, it is now. It's working, I was talking about it. The proceedings are suspended, the case goes to the tax authority and the reduction is calculated on the zloty. Nevertheless, in my opinion, in our view, this is an ineffective instrument to fight this type of crime, because it just takes a long time. This is case one. The second point is the matter raised by your senator, who said... Well, if someone was unaware, of course they're not responsible. I'll say it again: we're talking about a crime that has a specific structure, a deliberate crime. Someone must want to commit them or accept them. If someone was involved unconsciously... Well, this is obviously a matter of judgment, to be judged by the court. But, as a rule, such a person will not be liable for that provision. This, of course, is, once again, a matter of judgment, judgment and by the prosecutor, and by the court. Nevertheless, there must be at least a possible intention. It's a pretty important thing. As far as the issue of simulation is concerned, we have not carried out such simulations, but we have data on the growth of fraud measures that have been acquired by tax authorities in recent years. More and more such measures have been obtained. If the senator wishes, I'll give the senator such detailed information. It's about the tax authorities. More funds have been raised in recent years than in previous years. It is difficult to say whether this means that the crime we are talking about has increased in recent years, or whether it draws attention to the effectiveness of tax authorities. I can't answer that question. We do not have simulations on this issue. But, as I said in the first part of my speech, we'll see after 12 months. It is known that VAT revenue is the largest part of the budget, the largest part of revenue, i.e. more than 40%, probably 44%. It's gigantic money, we know it. Optimistic is that over the last 12 months, the influence has increased. It means the system has become more tighter. I hope that in this case there will also be an increase in influence. Just let them move to other countries... There are also countries that have almost completely overcome the pathology that we are talking about here. We know these countries. This is a question of the reverse VAT mechanism that is being applied But the question isn't really for us as the Ministry of Justice. However, it is worth considering e.g. the kind of solutions that work in the Czech Republic. Such solutions were applied in the Czech Republic. In Poland it was also used. The question is whether this should be applied more widely But that's a question I think to the Ministry of Development, I think it's addressed to such a question. I can no longer remember the questions asked at the very beginning, but I think one of them concerned whether we are dealing with VAT invoices as specific documents against other documents, with the separation of specific laws and offences of a particular kind in relation to documents. We are dealing with material falsehood and intellectual falsehood. I don't know if it's necessary to define it very precisely. I don't think so. And as for what you asked the senator, it's just over 40%. VAT revenue to the state budget, hence as if... I already talked about it, answering Senator Jackowski's previous question. I think here... I don't know, I don't remember the senator's question exactly... [[Minister, is that just...]] Oh, just VAT. Excuse me. I thought that's what you were asking. Yeah, it's just VAT, but it's the biggest revenue, and you know it, Mr. Senator, so that's where we're gonna start. Will there be any more of our steps? Perhaps, we do not exclude this, but let's start with VAT, because here is the largest scale of pathology, precisely in the case of VAT. In the Seym I gave examples of these frauds, about how It's done. There are dozens of different kinds of tricks that are used. If the senator has such a will, then of course I will present such a document. In any event, these solutions concern only VAT. Art. 277c. I don't know if I remember the senator's question exactly either. It was an extraordinary easing. Once again, this is lex specialis, the prosecutor has the greatest knowledge about this subject and in the article. 60 is a clear construction, only in the case of §3 the court applies exceptional relaxation. I understand you meant that part of the senator. We accepted the construction of the prosecutor's application, and it could only be the prosecutor's request, so the defense attorney didn't, only the prosecutor. [[And those combined punishments. The need to repair the damage...]] I told you about the damage, Senator, I already told you about it. [[I know, but why isn't it included in the bill? That's all I meant. Yesterday, Minister Warchoł said that there would be a separate bill that would only deal with confiscation and...]] Confiscation? [[Yeah, impounded and repaired.]] It's important. It's an extended confiscation, right? [[Yeah, it's an extended impound.]] Yeah, yeah. We are currently working on this regulation, and it comes from European regulations, and we need to introduce this regulation. Indeed, we are working on this solution. In a moment, I believe, specific regulations will also be placed on the table as senators. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borowski. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I apologize if I didn't...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u76	Yes, because the Minister was fascinated by Senator Shark, and he left me out. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Sorry.]] But it's understandable that it's clear. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: It is understandable, Mr. Senator...]] Yes, absolutely. I'll just remind you that my question was the following. If, in this situation, including the law that we are adopting at the moment, it is said that an extraordinary relaxation of the penalty can only be made at the request of the prosecutor, then my question is this: in other cases covered by the criminal code, can the court, on its own initiative, issue a judgment consisting of an exceptional relaxation of the penalty, or is that impossible and always and everywhere, at the request of the prosecutor?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u77	I answered the senator so that here a little... [[No.]] I answered. I responded by referring to the article. 60 §3 that the court applies an extraordinary relaxation of the penalty, so here there is no need for a request, in a very special case...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u78	I understand, but there's also the second part of the question. Therefore, if the court may, in other circumstances, apply exceptional leniency on its own initiative, then why not in this case. [[Lex specialis double, this is double lex specialis.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u79	I told the senator that question earlier. That's because the D.A. has the most far-reaching knowledge in this field. I think that's the third time I've said it, of course... As I understand it, it's all about whether the D.A. doesn't have the primacy of the court. [[Minister...]] Except I was talking about lex specials. I've been talking about a particular kind of crime all this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u80	I understand, Minister, I understand. I'm asking, why? Because the D.A. usually has the most knowledge, just, not just in the case we're talking about here, practically every case has the most knowledge. Nevertheless, in other cases, the court may make an extraordinary reduction of the penalty, but in this case it cannot. I'm asking you, why? And you're telling me this is lex specialis. Yeah, I get it. But what I'm asking is, why did you take this solution and take that right away from the court?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u81	That's what we've adopted, referring to the general part. I'll answer to the senator again. I don't know if the senator will be satisfied or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u82	You know, of course, somehow, I forced you to answer, which obviously doesn't explain why it happened. Well, I can only say, given the experience of recent years. Not one year, not two years, connected with the use of mining arrests and attempts to force suspects to report to the designated persons that this is a great weapon in the hands of the prosecutor. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: May I respond, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u83	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u84	Mr. Senator, this is, in my opinion, too far-reaching a phrase. It's important to remember what the prosecutor's place is all over the system. Let us remember that the prosecutor is a spokesperson for the rule of law, a spokesperson for the public interest. And what you said is, in my opinion, too far-reaching a conclusion. [[In Guantanamo until today... 12 years without charge...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u85	Calm down, please. Senator Włosowicz begins another round of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u86	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have the following question. Who in commercial law companies will be responsible for issuing invoices?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u87	Thank you. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u88	Minister, I will ask such a naive question of character. However, I will continue to pick on this extraordinary relief of punishment. But for starters, I would like to make two comments. First of all, you've probably watched, like everyone else, the deal's closed. That's where the prosecutor was supposed to play such an important role. And secondly, Minister, the longer a man is in prison, the longer he gets bored. And I want to tell you that I think it's probably best to train and train in different areas, including counterfeiting money and others. And I'm gonna ask you a question like that. Please explain to me... E.g. tax authorities... The fact is that the tax authorities are conducting proceedings and, after the investigation, they're presenting them to the prosecutor... and then the prosecutor's office determines the amount of the damage. And then it is necessary to determine what article it is subject to, whether there is little harm, whether it is a ten or fivefold amount of property of great value or less. And now if at this time a man can make amends... Please tell me what will be done in such a case, when the person concerned, so to speak, at the stage of the tax office or tax authority, will make good the damage. What will be the conduct of the other authorities, that is, the prosecutor's authority, in accordance with this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u89	Are there any more requests for questioning? You're welcome, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u90	Minister, I'd like to do this in general... The important thing is to increase revenue to the budget. And here in various ways you can approach it. You are talking about additional VAT revenues, that they can reach 80 billion PLN, 60 billion PLN or 40 billion PLN, but in order to gain more revenue for the budget, you always need a good economic climate, an investment climate. I understand that punishments are supposed to scare away, but I'm concerned that those penalties you're talking about are up to 25 years of imprisonment. As well as the question of trust in the court, the prosecution, the issue of unintentional crime... it can scare away potential investors. The rules on penalties can later be interpreted in different ways, different actions can be taken, which can simply spoil this climate, so that the additional VAT receipts you are talking about will not be. That's one thing. Secondly, it may slightly block this good economic climate for development in Poland. Information about these penalties, about possible sanctions, is widely known, and I fear that this may deter honest investors. You know, you have to fight criminals. That's not in any doubt. But such restrictive action may also have a negative effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u91	Thank you. Are there any more requests for questioning? You're welcome, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u92	Minister, I'm talking about the article. 4 on the Code of Criminal Procedure. I understand that this concerns the possibility of wiretapping. Right? I'd like to ask you if you think that point 16g, that you can use a wiretap... It would be because it's about cases where someone hasn't reported a crime. Yes? Am I reading this right? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes, yes.]] Don't you think this is going a little far?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u93	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Trade companies... I don't know what particular case you were thinking about, Senator. If you assume that an organ acts as an organized criminal group, then everyone will be held responsible, but if someone is not aware of it, then it is difficult to accept responsibility... Like I said, it's just a deliberate crime, just an act of direct or possible intent. So basically, just the person who issued the invoice... Of course, life writes different scenarios, but it is difficult to assume that responsibility will be borne by all members of the body at the time when someone else issues an invoice. Right? That's not gonna happen. I think here... I don't know if that's what you meant by the senator. [[Yes, Minister. If your accountant signs such an invoice, then...]] The person who issued the invoice, Mr. Senator. [[I understand that for example. The Minister will be president of the company someday, and you will not be responsible.]] I'll sign it, but if I don't know about it, I'm not gonna answer for it. [[Thank you.]] That's the first thing. Case number two, damage issue. The senator's asking about the question... Once again, I'm saying that, as a rule, this is a crime against documents. What is the ultimate harm to this act, what is the harm, is a matter for the tax authority to determine. I'll get back to my earlier speech. It may be that the damage to public debt will be quite different from what was shown in criminal proceedings. Right? The basis is what is on the invoice, i.e. the value of the service or the value of the product. These could be 2 completely different amounts. Another is the structure of the crime, because, once again, it's a crime against documents. But let's remember these gates. We have the possibility to withdraw from the penalty, we have the possibility to apply the so-called. Smaller weight... It's about situations like the senator's probably about. The difference between what's on the invoice and the actual damage here is a case of smaller weight. And here's the possibility of using this gate. Remember, this is a crime against documents. And that's the starting point for the discussion. So this is a complete change in the philosophy of fighting this kind of crime. This is the first case. As for the issue of scaring off, as the senator says, honest investors... I think it'll be good for them. It is important to remember that even if someone transfers their activities to another country and does so before, we have laws, so we're still going after this kind of crime. That's one thing. Secondly, I don't think that's actually gonna scare investors, honest entrepreneurs from investing. Well, an honest entrepreneur wants to invest under normal conditions of competition. And this money is sucked out of the budget, unfortunately. This money could also be spent on entrepreneurship. Well, it is what it is. I, Mr. Senator, have been in business-related organization for 20 years. Someone started by accusing me of being in favour of solutions that are at odds with entrepreneurs, so what I'm saying is that I'd be the first person to stand up against these solutions if they were. Because entrepreneurs have complained about all kinds of cases, but it's the entrepreneurs who support them, unless the senator has knowledge of some organization representing entrepreneurs who says she doesn't like this solution. It's good, isn't it? It's a fight. With these biggest thieves, criminals, it's actually good for entrepreneurs, honest people, honest workers. It's a question of wiretapping. Yeah, that catalog's pretty wide. But also, Mr. Senator, we're talking about one of the most serious crimes, and that's why there's even this sanction in the form of a separate kind of punishment, the possibility of 25 years of imprisonment. We, Senator, must somehow combat this kind of crime, so through these wiretaps, even using this point 16g, we must break down the solidarity of these groups. Because it's a very serious problem. Unfortunately, in such groups it is sometimes that everyone plays a role: one takes on certain matters so that it is not known who really runs the whole group. Well, the mechanism is quite complicated. This is something that really hits the solidarity of organized crime groups. This is something that they will really be afraid of, because it gives great authority when it comes to crimes against the justice system. And this catalog must, by nature, be wide, precisely because of the crime we're dealing with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That last answer makes me ask the next question. Minister, as long as this one is added in K.P.K. Point 12a concerns indeed issues related to the processing, counterfeiting of invoices, but the use of wiretapping in the cases referred to in those points 16a.16g, contrary to what you just said, is not limited only to offences related to the processing, counterfeiting of invoices. Here the speech is e.g. about making false statements, creating false evidence in connection with a criminal offence, a criminal offence, a tax offence, that is, any criminal offence. Isn't this going too far? Because it doesn't fit into the law at all. It's not limited to processing, forging invoices. We're talking about every misconception, every false evidence, every false accusation in the case of every misdemeanor, every tax offense, every tax offense, every tax offense, every crime. It's a very wide range. Why have you extended this scope so much? 'Cause if it was just about invoices, of course, we're all inclined to do it. But why is it so wide?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u97	If there's no more calls, I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u98	Because these are crimes against the justice system, and we can't concentrate in my opinion just specifically on what the senator said. We need to look pretty wide at this. Once again, these are organized groups, everyone has a role. There might be a role for someone who's doing some research or doing something specific in the following points that you've been talking about. Well, in this case, we've adopted the broadest structure, because we think it's a very serious crime, and we can't interpret it restrictively. It's all about crimes against justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u99	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Let's move on to the debate. I'm opening a discussion. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Zdrojewska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u100	Ladies and gentlemen! This bill, of course, came to this meeting in accelerated mode. We agreed to this because in this case, at least yesterday was a committee meeting. We could have talked about it, but there was a lot of doubt at the committee meeting and beyond. I'm glad that unlike what happened last night at the committee meeting... Today, this discussion is a little different. Thank you, Minister, for speaking in a way that... at least didn't avoid an answer about... I tried to avoid manipulation, with which I would not hesitate to describe it so. We had a meeting yesterday at the Legislative Commission convened on this matter. I'll tell you what's going on. Yesterday, the bill at the committee meeting was submitted by Minister Warchoł, not only by reference to it, he presented it, but also very zealously praised it. We know that Minister Warchoł is compared to Giulianiego, that he is in the top five of the most prominent Polish lawyers, according to the Journal of the Gazeta Prawna. This is the Minister. It's a pity that all of you senators can't listen to him today, because he said yesterday, for example. That this punishment for Madoff is a total of 150 years in prison... The Minister said it was beautiful, but he forgot that we live in a completely different legal system and in a completely different country. What's really going on here? The question of 25 years of imprisonment for... This is I don't hesitate to use that name here. Draconian punishment for this kind of crime. And there was no doubt about whether to prosecute criminals, all the senators were and there is a consensus about this, that such crimes should be effectively prosecuted. The question was whether these 25 years... I asked Minister Warcho about what it looks like in other countries. I also asked for opinions, among others. Minister of Finance on this subject. Minister Warchoł informed yesterday that the bill had been passed through all intergovernmental arrangements and that everything was fine. He also said that such penalties are commonly used and actually 25 years is not surprising, because that's actually what you do everywhere. I've decided to check it out. Oh, and one more thing: the Minister told us yesterday something that's already completely impressed us... has given us a great deal of amazement. When he talked about entrepreneurs' opinions... Even the Confederation of Leviathan Perhaps the Minister will be surprised. She was in favour of allowing life imprisonment. That's what one of the directors was supposed to say, and that's what you told us yesterday. That's why I took the liberty of talking about yesterday's manipulation. Ladies and gentlemen, I have checked: the opinion of the Confederation of Leviathan is negative. The Confederation of Leviathan doesn't call for a life sentence, and I don't think the director of the Confederation of Leviathan at any meeting would have called for it. Check it out. That opinion is known, she appeared... There is a negative opinion of entrepreneurs, and not only from this association. Another thing: opinions. Perhaps the Business Puls is lying, but I found information that the idea of a 25-year sentence for tax fraud was criticised by the state authorities that a negative opinion was written, among others. Government Legislation Center. The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have criticised the amount of this penalty, i.e. 25 years in prison. To my question, the Minister answered yesterday that everything was great. Well, I suspect that since the government has accepted this project, it is the ministers of sport, culture, etc. by majority they defeated the Minister of Finance, regardless of the opinion of the Government's Legislative Centre. I draw the attention of the senators to the fact that not only does the opposition have doubts about this matter. The penalty of 25 years raises doubts to a wider extent. There were arguments here that such punishment was actually nothing unusual. I've checked it out, ladies and gentlemen. In France, it threatens a maximum of 7 years for this kind of crime, in Germany 10 years, in the USA 20 years. I'm going to say again not to compare myself to the United States, but even there is 20 years, not 25 years. Such penalties of 25 years are nowhere in Europe. I may be wrong because I haven't checked all the countries, but in Belgium for economic crimes threatens up to 2 years in prison plus Okay, here's the A fine of EUR 500 000. It's a very large fine, but the prison sentence is up to two years. It's for economic crimes. Czech Republic 10 years maximum, Germany A maximum of 10 years. And I think that's enough for us, although here I still have a few different, smaller and larger countries and the penalties applied there. Why are these punishments very similar, and nowhere is there a draconian penalty of 25 years for such a crime? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that the penal code is a tight system in each country and the introduction of such a high penalty in only one case would raise doubts. The inevitability of punishment is the most important thing. The threat of this punishment, the fear of punishment, Minister, is not the most important element at all, because the Penal Code itself states that the punishment should rather shape the legal awareness of the citizen, such should be its influence. And how such a punishment would shape the legal awareness of the citizen, since... I'm gonna use a variety of extreme cases of rape from a minor or unintentional homicide that are at risk of less punishment. How does a citizen get his mind straightened out, which is good, which is bad, which is even worse, and what is less bad if he compares punishment for, very reprehensible otherwise, falsifying invoices and extorting huge amounts of money from the state with punishment for gross rape or murder? We know how much punishment we have. Although one of my colleagues, from the PiS, told me after the committee meeting that the judges would not apply it anyway. It's just, as I hear it, there's a good change in the judiciary and there's not gonna be that big caste of judges anymore. There will be some other judges who will, I suspect, be very careful to see what the current authority expects, and if the authorities write that it is to be 25, they will convict someone for example, so that everyone will get scared and bury themselves in the corners. And it's not just criminals. The point is to make the whole nation feel how strong you are. That is the approach to these penalties, ladies and gentlemen, and I do not like it very much. I would like to refer to one more argument that the Minister used here. Well, this budget, our poor budget, that's how we make money for education, for culture... Thank you for remembering the Minister of Culture, but I will say something about culture and how this law can be understood by citizens. I've been reading an interview with the former president of television lately. Well, the former TV president left television with $100 million on it, and after a year, it turned out to be 200 on the downside. Totally, it's minus 300 million for a year, in a similar subscription situation. I'm probably running out of time, so I'll finish up in a minute. I will tell you how the law works in the case of television and culture and how it works in the case of VAT. Thank you very much for the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u101	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am afraid that this project is merely proof of how powerless the state apparatus is in the fight against these organized criminal groups. Since governments were unable to deal with this in any way, they could not prevent such crimes, I understand. I'm still assessing this initiative. That it is an attempt to build a curtain. You'll just have an argument that you're fighting because you've reached for such incredible measures, and that none of this is really gonna work out... Well, there's one thing I'm going to come up with later. Why am I making such a pessimistic diagnosis? I would like to remind you that economic crimes in the Polish People's Republic were even at risk of the death penalty. If you're trying to tell me that it did anything... Well, I know you won't say it, because the scale of economic pathology in communist times was that everyone was subject to this paragraph. And you know what everyone really remembers? They remember only one shameful case of the death penalty. I'm talking about the meat loaf. The judges issued this sentence under pressure from the political office It's documented. What was the government trying to accomplish? The government, with such terrible pathologies on its head, wanted to send a signal to society: we will murder you if you trade meat. The only thing left of it is this list of shame, the list of people who made this recipe. So I'm afraid what you're talking about today is that we're gonna create such a threat that they're gonna be afraid of us... Well, there's a whole range of crime science, crime science. I'm sure you've read about it as much as I have, and you remember that pickpockets were mostly robbing stunts who looked at public executions. Unfortunately, there is no simple translation that on the one hand you will put 25 years on the table, and on the other hand it will be... no, it will not be. You're ruining some kind of punishment gradation. Let me ask you something. If you say these criminals are so calculating, if you say they're so organized... My point is that the threat itself will not eliminate these pathologies. What's gonna stop a bad guy like that if he's afraid someone's gonna denounce him, from shutting up a witness once and for all, when he's got a 25-year-old penalty on the one hand, and then on the other hand, Of course, more serious life sentence? And you know for a certain age, the difference between 25 years and life is none. As a result of this storm, it is the order that reigns... Your example, although true, does not convince me, because I happen to believe that the punishment of 25 years in prison for counterfeiting money is also a disruptive measure in the policy of punishing and reversing proportionality. My point is that all of this is really a smoke screen to cover what we touched in the last phase of your questions. Quietly, without any discussion about this, you're bugging again, and it's not just about these crimes, it's about everyone... On the basis of this record you will be able to eavesdrop This includes the clou of this law And it's through the back door again... It should be a completely different regulation, not by the way... If we were to introduce it, we should really consider the guarantees of civil liberties, because it is very easy to say that everyone agrees... I agree with what your colleague said yesterday at the committee meeting that you, I mean, the government... We all have to have a tool, not go sideways somewhere, so we can chase this kind of crime. I fully agree with the fact that there must be appropriate law enforcement solutions, the state apparatus must be able to prosecute, but do not throw in such solutions without discussion, because in my opinion they concern fundamental freedoms of people in Poland. It's smuggling, so to speak, on the side, there aren't even five words about... it's not about the matter of this bill, it's about everything. I believe that such an introduction should absolutely not take place. I very much regret that in such a way, by the way, the functioning of each of us changes. I don't think you should do that. Thank you very much. If I want to make an amendment, do I have to do it now? [[For the rest of the discussion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u103	You're welcome. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. Dismissed until 2:30 p.m. I would like to remind you that at 2:00 p.m. the exhibition will be opened by Dr. Władysław Jaczyański Life and work. In the century of death. I would also like to inform you that after the break we will continue the discussion at this point. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 54 to 14 minutes 34]] I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. We continue the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u104	Mr. Marshal, the first part of the discussion was attended by the Deputy Minister, and at the moment he is not. I'm not asking for a recess, but if you'd caused the Minister to be... I have some comments directly addressed to the Minister and I would like him to address them after the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the words of the Minister, who, I would say so gently, very populistly put forward the situation, that we must fight the scourge of VAT fraud, as it is quite obvious that the state must, I stress, take a quick action. Ladies and gentlemen, swift action is a question of detection of crimes and the question of securing property at the level of the preparatory procedure, which obviously has nothing to do with the imposition of those penalties which are referred to in the submission. Absolutely nothing to do with this. That's my first basic remark. So that is the justification that you quoted from the Minister, there is nothing to be said about the content of the submission. If the Minister thought that the Code of Criminal Procedure... The question of the procedure is indeed changed, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to pay particular attention to it. This subject has already been touched gently here. Namely, it is the possibility of recording the content of telephone calls, which is acceptable in cases of the heaviest, as K.P.K. says, concerning murder, security violations, etc., this is all litany. But at point 15 of the previous c.p.k. there is also, please, a provision concerning property of significant value, that we are dealing with the exposure of property of significant value. I would like to point out that, pursuant to §7 of the amended law, this provision applies accordingly. In short, if we are faced with allegations of extortion of significant value, i.e. more than 200 thousand, we can apply this provision, and we do not need to apply a new, inserted article. 12a, i.e. counterfeiting or processing invoices for use. Please note that there is no limit, no determination of values. I stress once again: the issue of eavesdropping concerns the most serious crimes, while Article. 12a brings us against point 15, which would consume at least those cases above 200 thousand, the situation that the prosecutor may apply for a wiretap of fraud concerning, I do not know, 100 PLN, 200 PLN, with the slightest fraud. With the smallest, I would stress. Well, I don't think that's the point, ladies and gentlemen. The idea of this recipe is c.p.k. It's completely different. And that's why I'm asking you to delete it. Once again, I stress: if we are dealing with property of considerable value, §7 of this law allows us to apply this provision accordingly and it is quite sufficient. I wouldn't want to blame this bill completely, so here's what I'm gonna say. Indeed, I must say here that the issuing of a fictional invoice is currently solely responsible under Article. 62 §2 of the Tax Criminal Code, as this provision is lex specialis, which excludes Article. 271 criminal code. It's from our senate opinion. That is to say, the introduction of a new act prohibited in Article. 270a sort of standardized... That's why there's no possibility of interpretation, because the perpetrator... If the fictional invoice is used for other purposes, e.g. fraud of grants or credit, liability should also be based on Article. 271 k.k.a. or on Article. 286. So it wouldn't be necessary here. But if the perpetrator is going to obtain a refund of VAT, he is liable only on the basis of Article. 76 of the tax code is from Kukuła's commentary. And in such a situation, this provision would indeed be needed, because it would not give rise to interpretation doubts. Here's the deal. But there was also talk about the fact that we have to keep... As it is said, have a proportion, ladies mosquito. The Minister presented here an analogy to counterfeit money. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a completely different situation. With very good technology, it is very often difficult to know whether we are dealing with a forgery or not. And here's another situation. There's a whole control body, there's an integrated tax control system. For what it was introduced. So I'm asking where he is and that's what I'd expect. National Register of Invoices. It's not the same as forging money. That's why I'm accusing this whole thing of a lack of proportion. Of course, the courts won't apply... I can't imagine them using 25 years of imprisonment. There must be some proportions here. Yeah, well, it can't be that the penalty for murder by 3:00... isn't even there till 8:00 yet. There's only an extraordinary punishment up to 25 years and a life sentence. And it's up to 25 years old. Ladies and gentlemen, this is absolutely unacceptable. The greatest doubts and emotions are raised, ladies and gentlemen, by a change concerning the extraordinary relaxation of the penalty, as was mentioned here. That's what Senator Shark was talking about, reporting on a minority motion. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister honestly says we're shutting down the article. 60, i.e. general provisions on extraordinary relief of punishment, and we introduce lex specialis. What's causing this, ladies and gentlemen? This causes the prosecutor to in some ways incarcerate the court, but not just the court, including the parties. And the side is the defense attorney, he's being charged with a defense attorney. I believe that this provision clearly strikes the right to defend itself. See, now is the case that the court can apply an extraordinary relaxation of the penalty if the perpetrator has made an effort to repair the damage. At the request of the prosecutor, the court may apply... This is §4. There's no obligation here. This refers to the disclosure of circumstances unknown to the body concerned. And there's a possibility... The court may. There's no obligation here. But if the court applies §3 art. 60, which is mandatory, is absolutely not limited to a prosecutor's motion. So the rule we're talking about here is in contradiction with that, because it excludes §3 art. 60 and deprives the defender of the possibility of effective action in the fight for extraordinary relaxation of the penalty. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm gonna have to use five more minutes to fill this out. ...which, of course, involves the danger of mining arrests. The prosecutor will show in the preparatory proceedings that he is the master, and he will decide what will be decided against the defendant. I'll fill in the blanks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After such wonderful and analytical speeches of my predecessors, finally lawyers, so patron of Pociej, as well as your patron of Silence... But in particular, we will all remember Senator Ziientarski's speech. It is only on a point that I have to say, on a case that raises the most reactions, although I do not believe that this is the most important issue in the fight against VAT fraudsters and... I think excise duty, but I am not sure about it. As I have already commanded at the committee meeting, this kind of crime Indeed, it is dangerous for the functioning of the proper financial circulation and also for the budgetary balance, because money is on the street, or actually on websites where, as I have read, VAT invoices can be purchased. It can be common because it is easy to commit, but I do not think that the most appropriate is, as far as the criminal consequences are concerned, to liken such crimes to counterfeit money, where the risks are actually high and even to drug trafficking. Why don't I think so? Because this money, as I said, is lying on the street, while the money counterfeiter really needs to, especially today, work a lot to get some benefits. In addition, I understand the purpose of the PiS government is not to close these criminals for closure alone, but to prevent losses for both the budget and the financial system, and this is already a different philosophy. We should be dealing here with a report from the Minister of Finance, which shows how the Ministry intends to seal this system or change it. However, I believe that limiting the solution to this problem is only necessary to increase the amount of the penalty. Especially when I look at your ambitions and abilities The more we empathize with the public opinion with the fact that, so to speak, the chimneys of fraud. Well, I'm inclined to do it, but the truth is, this pyramid isn't very sharp. VAT fraud, precisely because of the fact that this money is lying on the street or on websites, affects very many small criminals, difficult to catch, and even more so to be imprisoned in prisons. All the senators from the Platform. It is evident from the discussion that the Ministry is involved in this series of activities and not only share this concern, but also try to ensure that this concern also has a legal dimension and that it is effective. I want to talk about this effectiveness, which is the ministry's intention to scare away potential criminals, and I am talking about the highest amounts, over 5 million, and up to 5 million. There is a penalty of 5 to a maximum of 25 years in prison. Undoubtedly, it can be accepted that it is a deterrent, but in technology It can less often be in the law The term optimum exists. Optimum is that, when you cross a line, what you think is effective in a straight line turns out to be counterproductive and even loss-making. So it happened that I read the speeches of outstanding lawyers in the past time, including Sherer's patron, and I could confront it with reality. He proved that punishment of up to 10 years in prison, being in prison for up to 10 years is still the norm that should serve the law. But crossing it raises doubts as to whether the post-penitentiary thought that this man can still be raised, restored to society, as it was said then, to the family... Well, it's starting to have negative effects. For everyone. First, of course, for the state budget. Because let's imagine that we have an individual, let's say, a forger, 50 or 60 years old, who has the right to conduct an economic activity, such persons carry out an economic activity. Who is sentenced to 25 years for a serious crime where it is difficult to apply for early parole. In general, the court also takes into account this... Turns out a guy like that is going to be 85 after that time. After being in prison for 25 years or, let's say, 20 years is a wreck. This is a man who requires a lot of money not only for rehabilitation, but also for his time in prison. I am referring to health care and other qualities. And that's why I think here, in this bill, this optimum has been exceeded. As I say, we are in favour of increasing penalties, but to the extent necessary, including public interest. There is one more question in this case. That's what Senator Shark was talking about. This whole thing isn't just about getting a man back into society. For this punishment is to be of a different nature than punishment against murderers who must be isolated for life if they present such a threat. Tax fraud does not pose such a threat, because such a person will no longer return to his business, because he will already be out. Well, it's about getting your assets back, getting your money back. There's no way that's gonna happen right now. And it doesn't show how far all those who are taking advantage of abuse either. It's the whole environment, that's maybe the whole organized group. They'll have to return it. Or maybe it was right to say that it was wrong to sneak up on the alternative: give the money back, make it easier, make it easier in your life, among other things. Also in prison, because... that's not the alternative here. And that is why I think that there is a need for amendments that would correct this, I would say, a little inhuman system. One more thing. Mr. Minister says And it's a good thing he sees it. The biggest threat are organized groups, these octopus, Łódź, Olsztyn or some new ones. And, of course, the foreign ones. Because this is the criminal field today. Not stealing a Mercedes or even... because they're minor crimes, but these organized groups... And I do not see, in the solutions discussed here, specific, so to speak, bonuses, reprimands for organized groups. Why they are dangerous, you don't have to prove it, the media, at least national, prove that there are connections, not only horizontal, but also vertical, because of politicians. Although very few such crimes have yet been found or even no such crimes have been detected, there is no doubt that such a threat exists, at least on the line of law enforcement authorities, octopus. And I can't see... Therefore, in the amendments I propose to lower the thresholds and the upper limits of the penalty: if up to PLN 5 million, from 1 year to 10 years... As I understand it, the courts have so much sense and justice, especially since they have been operating in a free country for 30 years to also see the phenomenon that the Minister sees and will benefit from this provision as social, political and economic needs require. As far as these major crimes are concerned, more than PLN 5 million, I propose that the penalty be between 3 and 15 years. And when it comes to organized groups, I suggest that the punishment be increased due to the dangerous nature of such groups. Minister, you were praised here for having a discussion with your opposition, with your colleagues. Your positive attitude towards this amendment and other amendments would be a continuation of what was discussed at the beginning of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Perfect fit in time: 9 minutes 55 seconds. [[It seems, Mr. Marshal, that you could say more that I am the perfect senator at all.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Now you will speak to Senator Libicki. I'm sure you're a humble senator, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to fit in as well as Senator Rulewski. I would like to say this: we are talking here about punishing fraud, about fraud by means of false vat invoices, that is all right. And it is worth recalling that the government of the Civic Platform has started the trend of fighting this phenomenon. You're continuing this. Very well, continue. Maybe I'll repeat some threads that my colleagues in this room already have. If there is any doubt, then this question concerns, in particular, the dimension of the penalty that can be applied. That's 25 years in prison. I understand that this is a matter of particular abuses and special situations, but this is a punishment to be imposed on fraud, fraud, and such a punishment is being punished today for particularly drastic crimes, including murders, with particular cruelty. Well, balance... It seems to me, although I am not a lawyer, that equalizing these two types of crimes is not appropriate. Senator Rulewski was talking about a certain optimization of the penalty. This optimization is not what we're dealing with here. Moreover, if I say so, there are parallels in this respect, they concern a certain practice of highly non-democratic states such as. China. There is also a famous example of the meat scandal in the 1960s, when Mr.Wawrzecki, because there were abuses and thefts in the meat establishments where he worked, was carried out the death penalty. Well, this is the way, this is the way. We're slowly on this path. I believe that this is not a good thing, although the fight against fraud and extortion alone is absolutely worthy of support. I must say, with some surprise, I look at this undertaking and this kind of punishment. At one time, a well-known Conservative weekly awarded the prize to President Jarosław Kaczyński, a man of freedom. I'm still looking for those areas where President Kaczyński deserved his freedom... Maybe this is the area where freedom in fraud and counterfeiting of invoices is secured, and for that is deprivation of liberty for 25 years. If we were to say that it was for this and for similar actions that the President receives this award, then it would all be quite logical in its entirety. Here I agree, maybe it is, if that's the logic we accept. I also want to talk about one more thing. I understand that this will be a punishment that will be applied in exceptional cases, in situations of very serious abuse, but I am afraid of a certain thing. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, Minister Wójcik, as it is today, was not represented by the government, but by another Minister, who, in response to our allegations that the punishment in this dimension is draconian, referred for example to Bernard Madoff's financial pyramid. And he told us this: Mr and Mrs Bernard Madoff in the United States was sentenced to 155 years in prison for abuse, and that is beautiful. And it was said with a really deep revolutionary heat. I understand that you can assure that this is a situation that will only happen from time to time, an exceptional situation, but I can honestly say that in the context of this heat... colleagues who were at the committee meeting can confirm that it was a really passionate speech. However, I am a little concerned about this heat, and for this reason I also draw your attention to the fact that the punishment of 25 years in prison is not a good solution. Finally, we can fight fraud, counterfeiting invoices in various ways, including through criminal measures, and I don't question it, but I think And that's the point. not only to the Government of Law and Justice, it is also a remark to the Government of the Civic Platform, the Government for the last 8 years That fraud is the easiest way to fight fraud is through a simple and clear, transparent tax system. I would suggest if we couldn't do it for eight years so that our thinking and our reflection could lead in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u109	Thank you, too, especially since you fit in time. Less than 6 minutes. [[Mr. Marshal, we've known each other for many years, and you know I'll always fit in if you ask me to.]] Thank you very much. Now, Senator Zdrojewska. It's a second time, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u110	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I'm just gonna finish 'cause I started... I have spoken here about the fact that this punishment is draconian, that it is socially quite incomprehensible, but it is not only incomprehensible because... people are often too high in punishments. We've been studying, for example. fans of the death penalty, so we know that their percentage in society is very high, that it is quite popular... I also drew attention to the aspect of the whole context, the whole legal system in which we move. As Senator Zientarski said, if we put punishments next to each other, then... people do not understand why a crime is as high a penalty as in the case of far worse, in the opinion of people, crimes, e.g. against human life or health. This is incomprehensible. Let me tell you one more thing. I began to give examples of what is still incomprehensible to people. Since we agree with these arguments of the Minister that it is terrible that the state budget is so exposed to such great losses that it would go, as the Minister said beautifully, money for culture, for health, for poor children, etc., please tell us how society is supposed to look at such situations that... When President Kurski took over the TV, he had 100 million zlotys in the register. He's got a year, and he's got 200 on the downside, which means 300 million are gone, and the proceeds from the subscription were the same as in previous years. This whole situation has been... And I'm... But, of course, the President will not be punished. [[He got a raise.]] That's right, he got a raise. The Minister of the Treasury stated that his earnings were too small for the president of television 26 thousand gross it was not enough so he increased them to him. Notabene has so far not changed this decision of the previous Minister who increased his salary and still granted a bonus of 50% ... And one more example. Maybe not in recent times, but very important. Every Pole understands such an example as these famous road screens. There was a clerk who... I do not know whether, out of complete stupidity, or perhaps it was a crime, billions of zlotys were spent all over Poland on screens, which, as we know, are too much and which are completely unnecessary, and we all find that, but someone has set such standards. I don't even know if she was found, I don't think so, and she certainly hasn't been punished. Now that we're talking about putting the budget in jeopardy, we need to look at our own hands, and how we're putting in some kind of punishment. Of course not so draconian, it must be a system for people to know that not only an entrepreneur will be punished, but also an official who will expose the Treasury to enormous losses. 'Cause no minister is gonna fix it or the Prime Minister's gonna notice it, everybody's gonna say it's cool... And the worst part is, as is the law, and Parliament will vote on it. I draw attention to the fact that the system of law should be coherent, logical, and that system of penalties should apply equally to all. That's one point. And second note Last one, I'm finishing up... In November, we adopted a major amendment to the VA Act and I am surprised that we are not waiting for the effects of this. I hope that... because this bill was introduced, we were here, we listened to how it would be after it was introduced, that this system would be fixed, etc., and I still believe that this will happen, that we will get that money back and that everything will be about back to normal. And we're here instead of waiting to see if there's gonna be any action... It's not about punishing people, it's about not stealing people. I think we'll agree here, Minister. So instead of waiting to see if this bill works, we're putting in big punishments right now, and so on. Well, I really don't see any logic here. I would ask the Minister very much, because he really talks to the Minister much better than he talks to your esteemed colleague, the second Deputy Minister... I would very much ask you to take this into account. Maybe we'll meet again in the Legislative Committee, maybe you'll at least decide to lower this draconian punishment... Because we all agree that VAT fraud must be fought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zientarski for the second time, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! At the beginning of my speech, you weren't there, so I'm just gonna put it in a little bit. Of course, there is agreement and approval of the introduction of a new prohibited act as defined in Article. 270a, that's clear. There were and there are doubts in the doctrine, and I believe that not only the tax penal code, but also the penal code should apply here. I share the issue of the penalty, but let me repeat once again that this justification, which is the speed of the state's action, has nothing to do with these circumstances... for the subject matter of the submission, because, as I have already said, and I will repeat it once again, the question of speed relates to the methods of detecting and securing claims, this is the most important. And, of course, there is a compensatory function of imprisonment, as was clearly mentioned here. And that's what's important. It hurts me, Minister, that this compensation function of the penalty, which should be fundamental in financial matters, is, on the grounds of extraordinary relief of the penalty, treated completely in step-by-step. Completely step-by-step, because, Minister, it cannot be accepted, it is absolutely unacceptable that if the perpetrator has notified the authority called to be downloaded and revealed all the relevant circumstances of the crime, and also indicated the actions remaining in connection with the offence before this authority has found out, it is a condition of §1 and §3, and in the case of the first one, without the benefit, but only at the request of the prosecutor... And the court is bound, and it must. So the D.A.'s ruling is whether or not there's going to be an extraordinary leniency. I stress: no compensatory function, no return. And in §3 it is written that the court may apply the leniency against the perpetrator of the offence referred to in Article. 278, which, in addition to meeting the conditions I was talking about, i.e. those which you recognise, will yet be fully or substantially offset. etc. Ladies and gentlemen, what is internal justice here? That's what the senator's been talking about. This is grossly unfair, because it is not known whether a man who has compensated for the damage will receive an extraordinary relaxation of punishment, and the one who has not compensated is treated on the same principle. Only the prosecutor's request is needed and the court cannot say anything about it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is unacceptable. Therefore, if these amendments, I am simply saying, will not be accepted, I am talking about eliminating this proposal from the prosecutor and eliminating it, as has already been mentioned here, and I stress this once again, the pretext, in my opinion, completely unnecessary, i.e. those listening permissions in a situation where K.p.k. allows the use of eavesdropping in the case of the most dangerous crimes, with the greatest quality burden, the greatest social harm to the act, in §14 it is referred to about the significant harmfulness of this will absolutely not be allowed that in the case of other minor crimes, i.e. the amount of less than 200 thousand, the eavesdropping is used, because this is the introduction of the rear door completely uncontrolled use of the eavesdropping. If these amendments are not accepted, at least I will be opposed, but I think that a significant part of the Senators of the Platform will vote against, even though, as I stress, we see the need for both the existence of an article. 270a not with such penalties As well as changes to the vocabulary, changes to the article. 14, which clearly indicates what an invoice is. But unfortunately, other laws eliminate these positives. We therefore believe that these amendments should be adopted so that it is indeed a more effective instrument in terms of issues that may no longer be detected, and indeed punishment, because there is no question of increasing the effectiveness of detection, at least in this submission, or of securing... Punishment must be fair... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...internally fair, and she's not gonna be fair with that kind of prosecutor's prerogative that hits the right of defence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to speak to Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For each case in respect of which we are regulating, in particular by the criminal law method, it is always worth considering the objective to be achieved and the means to achieve this. Of course, it is necessary to regulate VAT drawback because, as I said, the scale of VAT fraud has already reached such a ceiling that it is impossible to put an end to the legal arrangements which are based only on the tax penalty code, because this does not remain in any reasonable proportion, there is no proportion between penalties and the amount of damage caused. That is why, in general, I am in favour of introducing these solutions here. However, I note one thing that, unfortunately, concerns me as a lawyer and defender of human rights, especially the right to his privacy and freedom. This is, in particular, a matter which has been almost omitted here, the question of Article. 4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is substantially modified by introducing additional dozens of cases authorising surveillance, interference in human private life through the use of wiretapping. Especially since it does not stop at what can be justified, that for the purposes of this law, which we are now introducing, concerning the fight against these abuses in recovery by extortion of VAT paid. So I'm talking about the introduction to the article. 4 (1) that in cases relating to counterfeiting or processing of invoices, etc.. We want to fight this phenomenon, and therefore we can say: it is good so important that we can sacrifice the right to privacy on the altar of this good and introduce the possibility of listening. But I'm afraid I don't see... In accordance with the principle of amicus Plato, sed magis amica veritas I must say, because I identify with this solution, which generally concerns combating tax fraud, but, as I say, it is impossible to agree with the introduction of the possibility of eavesdropping in cases where there is a lack of information about crime, or in other matters, even more trivial nature, e.g. When it comes to concealing evidence of the innocence of a person suspected of committing a disciplinary offence. Ladies and gentlemen, if we're going down to the level of disciplinary misconduct, it's really... I'm also saying this for the sake of our country. The point is that we should not lose cases before the European Court of Human Rights, which may refer to the article. 8 and 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 8 respect for private life and Article. 10 About Freedom of Speech And to say that there was too much interference here, because in such trivial matters as committing a disciplinary offence or committing an offence, the introduction of a wiretap is simply disproportionate in relation to the importance of the good that is violated, i.e. respect for privacy and respect for the freedom of expression of man. Because I stress that the Court has often spoken and said that interference in these rights is permissible, but only in cases involving the most serious crimes. Indeed, no one has come up with the idea that in cases involving disciplinary misconduct, where it is a cover-up, it is precisely a matter of concealing the evidence of innocence in the case of disciplinary misconduct, averting the importance of respect for privacy. I would therefore point out that we are probably going too far in the context of the Act on a completely different subject, because here the object is to counter the illegal refund of VAT paid. By the way, we are introducing legal solutions which, as a defender, I say frankly, are concerned because I would not want Poland to lose further cases before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, with the justification that there was too little reason to introduce the removal of protection of such essential, elementary good as respect for private life and freedom of expression, which is protected by Article. 8 and 10 conventions. That's why I would appeal to this article. 4 leave only point 1 - yes, to introduce the possibility of eavesdropping in relation to these cases of the processing and counterfeiting of invoices, because this is closely linked to the matter of the law, which is the fundamental subject of our today's deliberations. And to remove the remaining regulations, which, in my view, are not related to this matter and, secondly, to the interference at least debatable or even unfounded, especially when it comes in total, in terms of hierarchy of infringement, to relatively minor acts such as disciplinary offences. I think we can all agree that there is a hierarchy of importance for which certain rights can be derogated, but there are also certain rights that should not be derogated. Therefore, as I say, with all the support here for these legal solutions, I have these reservations. I also share the reservations which have been raised here about the fact that only at the request of the prosecutor can the court waive the penalty, or apply an extraordinary relaxation of the penalty. This is contrary to the principle which I have already mentioned before, that the court is always treated, in all legal systems, as the master of the process, or dominus litis. It cannot be held responsible that the prosecutor has the best knowledge of the subject matter of the case and therefore it is up to the court to decide whether or not to apply this extraordinary relief, or to refrain from imposing a penalty, if the damage has been corrected, i.e. someone refunded the tax extortion. Ladies and gentlemen, the court, if it is a serious court, has a duty to know the file not only well, but even better than the prosecutor. Therefore, as I believe, the court should be left to decide whether or not to waive the penalty. Yes, the prosecutor may ask for it, the lawyer should also have the right to ask, but the final decision should belong to the court, because this court is the authority that should decide and should have the best understanding of the case. The principle of judicial justice puts this matter in the hands of the court, and the prosecutor is to uphold the rule of law, maybe, and even should apply when... The best evidence that the prosecutor is to uphold the rule of law is that even after a criminal conviction he can appeal in favour of the convicted person, this is his right guaranteed by the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's why, with all due respect to the D.A.'s institution, you can't turn him into some omnibus or some kind of hyper-eater of justice, whose decision depends on whether the court can... or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. And finally, Senator Dobrzyński. [[I'll make the amendment in writing.]] [[But now.]] [[Right.]] [[This has to be done until the point is finished.]] [[You have to report now, Zbyszek.]] [[Now.]] [[I'll get it right away.]] [[So, wait till you get the corrections?]] [[Coming right up.]] Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[It takes a long time to talk.]] Minister, there have been many purely political speeches here, and I will try to connect them to the substantive side and quote some figures. Well, the senator says it's been eight years since we couldn't control... and I'll say we've lost 60 billion a year. Some sources say that about PLN 100 billion. The Minister has told me that we are losing about PLN 60 billion a year due to a lack of regulation. We're talking 25 years here. The law makes it clear that this applies to crimes that amount to a minimum of 10 million and that this seems to be justified. Let's call it the main penalty. It is a punishment that affects very serious crimes. In this case, this amount is given and, I think, this is the amount for which to punish. Of course, we are in a very difficult situation, because if we compare 60 billion to any amount that... To the amount of arms... Whether in the field of social assistance or in the economy it would be a significant amount and it is worth trying to protect it. Attention should also be paid to the very harmful fact that destroys the economic life of honest entrepreneurs: in fact, this amount of 60 billion introduces imbalances in the field of business and no economic operator who operates on our market is able to compete with the money presented by criminal groups. In this case, it's just the mob. You mentioned this, but it would be worth studying what carousels are. These are well-organized criminal groups, these are the mafias that you have, Ladies and Gentlemen, your seats in various types of offices, also in courts. There are specialists who do not do any work in general, but are involved in issuing invoices. There's got to be a permit in all kinds of offices for... probably the mob's got employees there who agree to this kind of action. [[There's already some adjustments...]] Minister, although this is not your competence, it is not your department, but I call for you to increase your employment in tax offices. Very often, these very serious cases are subject to statute of limitations due to the lack of workers. I do not know if there are such teams, but we should take this seriously so that they are specialists, especially in the field of tax and criminal law, who would control it, because these criminal groups have really highly qualified legal protection, have very good law firms and very often Polish offices lose to them. As far as employment is concerned, it is definitely insufficient in tax offices, because there are very many controls, and specialised groups are really operational when it comes to VAT fraud. So it would be worth it to go in this direction and pay attention to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Mr. Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Several people have already said this, and I can only repeat that there are no differences of opinion in this case in this Chamber, I believe, there are no differences in the assessment of this phenomenon, such as tax fraud, various types of carousels, abuse, etc. And what we're talking about and we should talk about is just a matter of how we fight him. By the way: the amount of VAT losses constantly raised or quoted, and earlier it was also said about CIT; as far as VAT is concerned, 40, 50 billion PLN was said for CIT, and it was also said about this amount. Well, these are amounts, ladies and gentlemen, a little unbelievable. Just because international institutions do these calculations and give some results doesn't mean that it can be completely eliminated. It's kind of like the gray zone. The gray area in some countries is smaller, in others it is larger, but there is no country where it is not. Therefore, when we are talking about eliminating this phenomenon, we need to look at it realisticly. There's no way to get 60 billion zlotys back. [[Let's make it half...]] [[But there are no instruments.]] Make it half, I just want to say it's been hard for now. As for this year, for which there have been far-reaching announcements, and we already know the results, Prime Minister Szydło said in mid-December that 11 billion PLN will be recovered when it comes to VAT... [[To the last one.]] I mean, this year... for last year, of course, I'm talking about the data we have this year, but it's about last year. She said that it would be possible to recover PLN 11 billion, and right now we know that this is, apparently, the amount of PLN 2 or 3 billion at the end of the year when it comes to VAT. As far as CIT is concerned, it did not work at all, even though some solutions have already been put in place. But I understand they haven't started yet, and they haven't done that yet. Next year, further solutions are introduced, among others. we will see how the control file will work, because it is a very complicated operation, and it has already assumed 10 billion zlotys in the budget additionally, hopefully it will be possible to achieve this. So, with such far-reaching solutions, including, let me remind you, the Anti-Tax Avoidance Act, which is very much, so to speak, a sensitive law, which can also be very dangerous in terms of the economic sector, in total, over a period of two years may be able to recover several billion, although I am not sure that these 10 billion zlotys will be able to obtain next year, since this year has not been able to obtain what was assumed. This shows that this is the first thing that needs to be worked on. Unfortunately, what I observe in the work of Minister Ziobra, and not from now on, is such a simple approach to crime, all the same: namely, if there is any negative phenomenon, then punishment must be raised, because when punishment is lifted, everyone will be scared and there will be fewer of these criminals. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is wishful thinking. And it's been proven repeatedly that it doesn't work that way. That's what Senator Silence was talking about here. You can say that he read my mind completely. That the criminal who commits the crime tries to do so so as not to be detected. And he doesn't think he's gonna stay. It's about the same as the death penalty. It is believed that the introduction of the death penalty will cause the most dangerous crimes to be almost eliminated, because everyone will be scared. Well, in the United States, apparently, these punishments don't scare you. Anyone who plans such a crime is convinced that they will do so so that they will not detect it. So you need to look for solutions rather in the area of prevention. Punishment of 25 years... Let me tell you this: of course you can point to the United States, where there are various strange punishments, this is not the only one Madoff was sentenced to 150 years and so on... Ladies and gentlemen, I have noticed such a phenomenon, such a correctness that the Law and Justice. Government or Parliamentary majority By solving some problems or, let's say, by trying, as he claims, to sort things out, he always has an example from another country, but this is an example from a country where a given solution is the most restrictive. And so on. in the case of the amendment of the Assembly Act, it pointed to a country in which there are restrictions going further than in other countries, and, as I say, it disassembled the Constitutional Tribunal, so we heard that for example. There's no tribunal at all in this Holland, so what's going on? Right? And as you tried to change the rules of access for journalists to the session, you could see an example of a country where journalists in parliament are crowded in a pen and only politicians come to them. Well, it's always been a country where it was the most restrictive when it comes to civil rights, civil liberties, etc. The same was true of surveillance, etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is how we're going to create a police state here, because in any case, we're going to choose the most restrictive solution. Meanwhile, there is no such country in democracy, because where one solution is restrictive, others are liberal. If we are referring to these foreign examples, please do not choose the most restrictive ones. Now we're 25 years old... Of course you can invoke the United States, but it must be said that 25 years of imprisonment for such abuse, even in the order of 100 million, ladies and gentlemen, this is nonsense. It's just that. It's nonsense. I don't really understand why. 15 years or 10 years for a man who was finally nailed to death is not punishment enough. Senator Rulewski said that a man like that wouldn't have a chance to go back to that crime, because he's gonna be in plain sight. And it needs to be maintained... I don't know. I don't get it. Once again, the preventive function of this punishment is negligible. There's something else to focus on. I wish these resources... I have often had the opportunity to say that when it comes to the advantages of this government's actions, the fight against tax fraud should absolutely be appreciated. And that's what you need to focus on. But here we are dealing with the simple tactics of Minister Ziobra: there is a problem, so let's raise the penalties, and I'm sure it'll be better. Well, it's not gonna get any better. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u119	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to say a few words in the course of Mr. Marshal Borowski's speech. Of course, I will not refer to the legal side, because my excellent speakers, led by Senator Peter, have already spoken about it. I'm also signing up for two senators in the front row to calm down a little bit. I mean, what I'm saying is that it's about sealing the system, catching criminals, and so on. is positive and, of course, it is difficult to imagine that a healthy economic system is not based on this. In order not to break down open doors, it is necessary to consider what actions can make the system more tighter and tax-friendly "Friendly when it comes to the form of activity. This can't be the way you spoke of Marshal Borowski: the higher the penalties, the less criminals. I don't think so. I listen to the voices of many people who are involved in this field, and I think it's going exactly the opposite way. Take an example from other countries. There's a country south of us called Slovakia. It is a country indicated as one which, from year to year, is more and better able to deal with tax collection, system sealing, etc. in a fantastic way. Do you think this country has raised the penalty once? Not that I know of. I'll tell you what he did in a minute. What does it matter? It's huge. It's not like we're scaring everyone today that 25 years... Why not 50? To make amends, as Senator Barbara said, to this passionate revolutionary idea, let us make it 200 years. And then it will be so that those who would like to implement in Poland the higher the penalty, the tighter the system will be... Maybe it'll be done. I want to tell you that I would very much like to vaccinate what he said among the Senators of Law and Justice. It is not your great political opponent, it is the person to listen to Prof. Hausner. He said that if Poland is to return to the path of development and seal the system, then it is necessary to follow through the proposals and solutions of Minister Morawiecki, who should be implemented instead of God's weapons. Mr. Ziobra. At the end of his speech he said that either Ziobro Sorry that I do not use the titles of Minister Ziobry, he will implement the economic development plan of Poland, or the Minister Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki. You're taking the other road today. I would like to say that Slovakia has gone in exactly the opposite direction, i.e. simplified the tax system, reduced taxes, sealed the system by introducing simple settlements. She acted in the field of prevention, not the prosecution of criminals. I suggest you think deeply about this. What is also important here is what Senator Marek Borowski was talking about. I looked earlier at data relating to 2016. Do you remember... Someone here has been performing and talking about the introduction of a police state, wiretaps, seals, etc. It is all these elements that are important in a police state, where the citizen becomes weaker and weaker in the face of power. And when I hear my fellow senators talking about the prosecutor's primacy in court, I ask: what economic climate are we creating? Once again, some people need to be hunted down and put in jail. It's the right thing to do. But if we're to have the primacy of Minister Ziobra over all the courts... I want to tell you that in the last year there was a drop in investment by 5.5%. in relation to the level from the previous year. The kind of activity you are proposing here is certainly not going to encourage entrepreneurs. If it is the primacy of a senior official, and it is still Minister Ziobra, over business activity, you will not encourage entrepreneurs to invest. If we add to all of this the fact that there is an opinion in the world that we are creating this kind of legislation, not laws that simplify and seal the system, that we are going towards overpunishing fraud entrepreneurs... This will not be conducive to economic development. Ladies and gentlemen, last year's VAT is 2.5... sorry, 2 billion less than the budget bill's plan. Of course this happens, VAT can be lower, other income can also be lower. But do you remember earlier announcements? In October, I read that it would be about 20 billion over the plan. And all of a sudden, there's 2 billion more. There's only 2.8%. more than 2015 data. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, that despite increased consumption... Because consumption, thank God, has increased strongly, and it has driven to a large extent both economic development and revenue to the budget. This shows that you should reflect, because the elements that have been and are being implemented in many countries... It is not increasing restrictions, it is not increasing fear of entrepreneurs and not telling them that they are potential criminals, it increases the income of the state and makes economic activity more and more secure, but the opposite. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use as an example the fragments of the film that was filmed on the basis of the events of 2003. It wasn't in the power of Minister Ziobra at the time. On the basis of the events of 2003 a film was filmed "The Closed System," which shows how the prosecution destroyed companies operating in Poland. Of course, these companies weren't supposed to say that, on the conscience of those wines they were accused of, and the final part is that the prosecutor says to his dog, "We're still gonna growl." Therefore, let us not build the force of law enforcement, but build a simple and transparent system that will promote business activity and tax sealing, and encourage investment in Poland, etc., etc. Such solutions certainly do not meet any of these conditions, because they neither increase the influence, nor improve the climate around Poland, nor increase the willingness to invest, nor affect the favor of domestic or foreign investors. If you want to talk to your business friends, talk to them. But not from Law and Justice. Ask them if such solutions are something they need in their good, good, fair business on the Polish market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u121	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Pociej, Senator Zientarski, Marshal Štark, Senator Rulewski and Senator Cichoń. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u122	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking you all very warmly for this discussion, and especially for the critical voices. What we could sense during these few hours of discussion was a great desire to seal the system, so that this problem did not really exist anymore, although we are dealing with one of the most serious crimes here. The ways to make things better are very different, so we will certainly lean on all the amendments you have tabled. In the meantime, after I spoke to you for the first time, life had a further scenario of what we talked about and what we are still talking about, because the National Public Prosecutor's Office revealed the arrest of 14 people and some of them related to the so-called. an old Pruszkow group, that is, with the mob, organized crime group. The investigation was conducted in the Regional Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin, and officers of the Central Bureau of Investigation stopped, among others. Słowyka and another representative of the management of the old Pruszkow group. In addition to the Nightingale, they were also stopped by the Parasol and the Vanka. Here's what I'm gonna say: The charges are only gonna be filed. At least I think so. But we already know it's about VAT fraud. As we spoke a few hours ago, I presented information that today it is an extremely profitable occupation and that it is worth extorting VAT, because it is quite simple because the system is not tight, but also the sanction is completely different... i.e. it is comparable with sanctions in other European countries. With us, it is possible to be punished by imprisonment, in accordance with the Criminal Tax Code, up to 5 years, in exceptional circumstances, this penalty may be 10 years imprisonment. We must ask ourselves whether, then, this system of penalties and this instrument that we have in our hands, the tax code, will suffice to combat this kind of crime in Poland, at this particular time and in this particular place. In our country. The answer is the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which says that in 2013 tax authorities detected fictitious invoices for the amount of PLN 19.7 billion, in 2014. PLN 33.7 billion in 2015. For the amount of 81 billion 900 million, almost 82 billion PLN. This is the report from the Supreme Board of Control. It is published on the website That the amount of fictional activities detected by the tax authorities is steadily increasing. And that's what's been detected. We're talking about the giant crime of frauds. We have prison sentences from five days to five years. Everyone, please answer if this instrument is effective. We can seal the system, we can adopt solutions, as I said before, like Czech or... I do not speak Slovak, but in the Czech Republic this problem has certainly been dealt with. However, this is already the area of operation of another ministry. We're the ones who have to sit behind bars, just sit there because they're crimes. And we're not talking about fraud entrepreneurs. And that's what happened here. Because the entrepreneur is an honest, hard-working man and he unfortunately has too much control, because over 40 inspections control the entrepreneur, because our country is bureaucratic and entrepreneurs complain about taxes. This is the domain of another ministry, although we are also very kind to lean on it, cooperating with the Ministry of Prime Minister Morawiecki. But this is one side of the coin. The second is a criminal world. Unfortunately, we in Poland have very specific conditions and unfortunately we have to take a different path. And this is the way I showed you today. This information I gave earlier also needs to be completed. These are data from the prosecution's 2014/2016 years on persons who have been convicted of extortion of VAT. Judgments were brought against 253 people and, specifically, 31 people were sentenced to imprisonment without conditional suspension. Do you know what kind of issues we're talking about, how valuable these cases are, how much tax, what kind of money was taken from the state budget, from our budget? That's 10 billion zlotys. We're talking about 10 billion zlotys. 31 people are in jail for this, and the rest are being punished in the conditions of freedom. Let's ask ourselves, then, whether these instruments that are lying on the table today are instruments sufficient to combat the criminal world, which today has moved from the area of purely criminal offences to the area of economic crime. This is where they found the weak side. The lack of specialised prosecutors, judges, weakness of the system, the leakage of the system and the lack of repressive law. I think that's our point of view, of course. However, we believe that this threat is too low today. Only that we most often talk about this sentence of 25 years imprisonment, but we do not talk about this lower legal limit of punishment, and we should really talk about it mostly. Well, it's 6 months in the case of a basic type, and in the case of a qualified one it's 3 years and 5 years. We're not talking about the fact that, in any case, if a criminal gets caught, the courts will only be charged with 25 years of imprisonment. I was giving an example of art. 310 and forgery of banknotes, but not only, because it also goes. for securities, not only for banknotes but also for securities. The question was whether to fight these criminals in another way. Today it was placed by us on the table a draft bill on the expanded confiscation. That's what I said before. We are trying to present solutions in a comprehensive way. This confiscation extended is an important solution, you can say. If someone is unable to prove where he has his property in the five years before he commits the crime, then he will simply lose that property, of course, under certain conditions that have been written down, because it is about very specific crimes, certain threats and the property of a certain value. But that's what we're going to be talking about, because this is another project that will complete the laws on vat extortion. We've left some gates, that's for example. this smaller weight Because there are very different situations, as I mentioned in detail in my first speech. As well as the possibility of withdrawal from the penalty and exceptional relaxation of the penalty. And now, once again, I am going to address this question, which is still going on here in this discussion, about whether or not the prosecutor is over court. Well, not at all. I keep saying, although the solutions we've adopted are lex specialis, it's... I'm showing the art again. 60 §4, which has exactly the same structure as the current rule. And I don't know why we're having this discussion about what's been adopted in our solution right now, because it works. He's in the criminal code. It's an art. 60 §4, which states that, at the request of the prosecutor, the court may apply an exceptional relaxation of the sentence and even conditionally suspend its execution in relation to the perpetrator of the offence, who, notwithstanding the explanations made in his case, has disclosed to the law enforcement authority and has presented relevant, unknown to that authority, the circumstances of a criminal offence punishable by a sentence of more than 5 years of imprisonment. Then why is this recipe here? At a time when we rule, we don't create something completely extraordinary, we just refer to a rule that normally works. It is the prosecutor who really knows, from the very beginning to the end, whether he has a reason on the table to apply to the court because it is about certain investigative activities. This is a very important circumstance. This is not about whether the court is able to verify whether, for example, it has occurred. to settle whether it is a minor person or other conditions which appear in the same provision. This is about very specific conditions, very specific, something that was not previously known to the body, for example. He was investigating. So we are really referring to the preparatory procedure. The court may not have any knowledge of this. The court's gonna have to go to the D.A. anyway, 'cause it's the D.A. who knows what's going on here. That is why, in this very particular case, he has an advantage over the court. If we're referring to this It's the end of the article. In one case, the court, at the request of the prosecutor, shall apply an exceptional relaxation of the penalty and, otherwise, in accordance with §3, the court may apply an exceptional relaxation of the penalty... This is about distinguishing the types of crime. In the first case, we are dealing with the basic type of the offence and in §3 of the qualified type. The basic threat is completely different. We're hitting some mechanisms with it. The court applies... we're hitting certain mechanisms. In the case of §3 it is different. This is really about the possibility of pulling completely different amounts from the state budget, of a different value. This is a value above PLN 10 million, which is why we want all or a significant part of what was simply extorted from the state budget to be returned. These are two different situations. In the first case, we try to hit the mechanism, absolutely. Finally, I would like to ask you, however, that this regulation, this proposal, be voted on by you. I say again: this regulation, which is in the tax code today, does not allow us to fight this kind of crime. Just like you. I've given the statistics... the vat delusions are, as I said, 40 to 60 billion zlotys. Of course, we are careful about the information provided by individual institutions. I told you: in fact, no one is in a position to define precisely what actual cuts in the state budget may be. But what we're talking about here is actually a problem, a very serious problem. And that's why you have to fight him in a slightly different way than it's been done for many years. That is why we have put this proposal on the table today, and I hope that it will meet with a kind reception from you. We declare that in the committee work we will lean on the amendments that have been tabled here by you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u123	Thank you, Minister. As regards your comments, I would like to share this information with you that in those countries that have successfully dealt with VAT fraud, using universal reverse VAT... These mechanisms caused international groups to move to Poland. This results in increased activity in recent years and those indicators that you are talking about. I mean Hungary, the Czech Republic and Austria. In these countries, reverse VAT has been widely used. This is the only effective mechanism known to me to deal with this problem on a large scale. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the establishment of the Western Cross. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. It is in print no. 393 and the committee's report In print No 393 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees mentioned by your marshal met at the joint meeting on 31 January this year and discussed the draft law presented at first reading. At that meeting, amendments were tabled, namely two amendments, which could also be called self-amendments, because I was the person who tabled them. The amendments concerned two articles, which I will talk about in a second. Opinions were also presented, and I will talk more about them in a second. But before I reach these two important points of the committee's deliberations, I would just like to say briefly that the law on the establishment of the Western Cross is to be so expressed, the second lung for what we discussed a few months ago, that is, the law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. These two lungs of the world are now to have a common breath, and it is associated with what is hidden in a very beautiful word of gratitude. Thus, the Western Cross is fulfilling this obligation of gratitude to people and organizations who in the years 1939 and 1989 provided various assistance to Poles of Polish nationality. They were not members of the Polish nation and were not Polish organizations. The 1939-1989 period is, of course, a special period in our history when we resisted totalitarianism. German Nazism and Soviet Bolshevism But also communist domination in the People's Republic of Poland. During this period, we were given a wide variety of assistance, both institutional and specific. We want to. This is the main idea of the authors of the idea of establishing the Western Cross, so that this gratitude is also a lesson of Polish history for foreigners, for nations and countries whose citizens will receive the Western Cross. As in the case of the Eastern Cross, the body that this Cross would broadcast is, of course, the President of the Republic of Poland, and the Ministry responsible for proceding and applying for this Cross is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You can apply to this ministry, and the Ministry itself can do so on its own initiative. The Act specifies those institutions which may apply for the award of the Cross, and private individuals may also do so. As in the arrangement for the establishment of the Eastern Cross, the Institute of National Remembrance is the body, the institution which will have to state clearly whether the proposal is positive or negative. The solution with the Western Cross, as I said, is a parallel solution to the once established Eastern Cross and territorially covers the whole world outside this part of the world that has already been honored by the Eastern Cross. And this is also to be included in the bill. On important points I'd like to present... It is about the appearance of this distinction, the same Cross, and especially the inscription "For the help of Poles," the inscription in Latin "Pro auxilio Polonis dato". The choice of language was caused by... It was not only about going back to classic language, but also about not honoring any modern living language, because all those who will be honored by the Cross come from different parts of the world. From New Zealand and Australia to Africa, Latin America, North America to Western Europe. By force, there is no language outside Latin to unite all of us civilizedly. This cross, as I said at the outset, is intended to perform two essential functions. I mean, on one side. It is an expression of gratitude, and on the other hand it is an instrument for Poland to conduct an external historical policy which... It seems to us, the signatories of this project, that it would be best if this policy were carried out in a positive form rather than just taking the form of a complaint. In fact, we have the right, legitimate, which we have for everyone who misses the truth about the history of Poland. In short, this is the meaning of the law and its scope. And the opinions referred to, which were submitted and discussed during the meeting of these committees, are the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the opinion of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, the opinion of the Ministry of Development and Finance, the opinion of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the opinion of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. All these opinions, apart from one opinion of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, were positive. The opinion of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage was negative for at least a few reasons. One of the main reasons was that... According to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, there are already sufficient means in the form of awards and decorations to express this gratitude, so it is not worth introducing a new element in the form of the Western Cross. It is, of course, so strange that the same charge could have been made on the occasion of the establishment of the Eastern Cross, but, of course, it did not appear then. The second charge was that there is no problem of underappreciation in Western Europe or the Western world... And this was the basis for the establishment of the Eastern Cross. Well, I kindly inform you that I do not agree with this accusation by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage for substantive reasons. I think that even Poles themselves do not know to a large extent how much we have underestimated many heroes, people who helped us during both World War II and the 1944-1989 period. As an example in various kinds of discussions or interviews, I often give an example of how the New Zealand families received children wanderers into their country and those children grew up there. Today they are 70, 80 years old, and this is the last moment for Poles living there to show us their guardians, foster parents who took care of them and who made it possible for them to spend the only life on earth decently, not in the tragic conditions that threatened them, if not this helpful hand. The cases of such de facto underappreciation, because there is, of course, a great deal of unrecognizance of the reality of the due gratitude. I recently learned that South Africa is alive He is now 97 years old, an airman who dropped his weapons and food to Warsaw insurgents in 1944. I dare suspect that 99.9% Poles do not know that this man lives and lives in South Africa. This is therefore a very good instrument also for such internal national education about the fate of people to whom we really owe a great deal, we owe. It's about time we could remember that. Other opinions, apart from the opinion of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, were as positive as possible, I think I can use the word 'enthusiastic' when it comes to the former. But it must also be said that some had the mark of a very good... not so much criticism as the verification of certain specific points of the proposed law. Therefore, in the form of an autocorrection, it was tabled by me and then put to the vote to propose that no part of the inscription in the form of the name or the name of the organisation should be marked on the marked reverse field. All that's left is the number of that award. Your legislator has tabled a proposal for an amendment that I have taken over, which is precise, so that there is no way... Because the intention is obvious, but so that there is no doubt, in the article. 2 (2) 1 We have written that the Cross is given to people of nationalities other than Polish and foreign organizations. The foreign word was introduced as a complement to the clear intention of the legislator. Both of these amendments were put to the vote and I was very pleased because all 23 people who took part in this committee meeting were in favour. And with such a clear verdict here I come to you to share this joy. I hope that we will proceed in the same way when it comes to the next editions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u125	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jan Żaryn to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. I mean this catalogue of people that can be distinguished by this honorary award that the Senate prefers to establish. Or, for example, I mean historians, publicists, intellectuals operating during the 1939-1989 period can also be distinguished with this badge, or is this the only one I would say active form of action for Poland or specific Poles in the West? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u127	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Thank you so much for that question. I'll answer by quoting the article. 2 (2) 2, which reads: "The cross is given in particular for helping Polish independence aspirations and for helping the oppressed, persecuted, deported, imprisoned or forced to emigrate by the German occupation and the communist authorities in post-war Poland, including for helping in the face of life threats, shelter and charity aid." Well, that's what I'm talking about. At least that's how I understand it. Our aspirations of independence... This formula, which has been included here, has a very wide range, so that this aid as a conceptual category can also be defined very, very widely. At least I hope that the word "help" will be defined properly by the Institute of National Remembrance, because it is indeed an institution that has cognitive instruments to determine which person or organization has given us real help in the context of our widely understood aspirations of independence. I can't imagine that this list doesn't include people who have political or moral authority in their own countries and who have asked, directly or indirectly, to free us from any occupation or domination. And we're talking about a wide range of time. I gave examples of concrete manifestations of human concern or even activity, say, charity or constant care, as was the case with the New Zealanders, to emphasize that the word "help" can be understood differently: from military aid to charity aid. But we know that there were a lot of organizations, e.g. Ms. Sue Ryder's foundation, which helped us in times very difficult for the Polish people, when we tried to become a more democratically managed nation or to emphasize that we miss independence. I can't imagine these people to be left out either, although they didn't provide aid in the form of as active as British airmen or others, coming from South Africa or from some other country, for example. Canada. I'm sure we'll try to honor them, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u130	I'd like to ask you a further question, ask for clarification. So I understand that churches, e.g. Protestant churches, which institutionally supported those in need in Poland during the period of martial law, or church organizations may be included here, may be dedicated to them this distinction. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Yes, of course. Definitely on this list, which I have in mind as a historian, there are such organizations as Caritas Internationalis, an international organization connected to the Holy See as well as Catholic organizations Caritas, e.g. Norge Caritas, Norwegian Caritas, who actively supported us in the 1980s, and, especially in Germany, many Protestant communities, which in various ways helped us in the 1980s. It so happens that in the 1980s I was also one of many, many people who were given, thanks to this German help, flowing from both Catholic and Protestant communities, which, one can say, behaved exemplaryly and exemplaryly towards us, Poles, and in a manner probably the most organizationally able to carry this help to us. Me, among others. at St. Katarzyna in Warsaw in Służewo I could receive these gifts, both these and others, because there were many of them. Of course, this individual case will not constitute the content of the Act. Undoubtedly all the organizations, religious communities and many concrete people mentioned and not mentioned by me, I hope, will be the beneficiaries of this award, and in fact the beneficiary will be a good memory of Polish history, good in the sense that it is true.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u132	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? I would like to warmly welcome the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Renata Szczech. Would the Minister like to speak? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. Come on in, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Renata Jęch: Thank you.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. I understand that the government's position towards this excellent initiative is very positive, but I have a question: were such personal appointments already made in the foreign affairs department, concretely, when it comes to those people who could be brought to the President's office to receive such a distinction? Because I also understand that these first decorations... They're numbered, as I saw on the graphic design, so there's bound to be a hierarchy, someone's gonna have that cross number one. Is there any work going on in this area, at least in studios?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u134	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u135	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, High Izbo! The analysis mentioned by Senator Żaryn concerned in particular the extent to which individual entities deserved Poland, regardless of their help. I don't think enumeration, the next numbers on the medal matter that much, if it's number one, if it's number 100... I would like to add, for my part, that this cross, as Senator Żaryn mentioned, may be broadcast to the living, but it may also be broadcast posthumously. And here I would like to mention e.g. well-known person deserving of Poland, i.e. Wilma Hosenfeld. This airman who lives in South Africa is a living person, but there are a lot of people... I can even mention it here. And you have this in the justification of this bill, such as the presidents of the United States Harry Truman or Ronald Reagan. Please note that these merits are defined very widely. The spectrum that art talks about. In paragraph 2, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 2, the catalogue on Poland's aid is very wide. So, in this situation, I can't give Mr. Senator a list with the order of award. Each case will be dealt with individually and I understand that there is no differentiation here. Each award is a distinction for the subject or person, as I say, living or dead, who deserves to be awarded this award. I don't know if that's enough to answer the senator's question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u136	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u137	Minister, I'm referring to the previous question. 'Cause Senator Jackowski, with the right sense of timing, hit that Pandora can a little bit. I would like to remind you that, in one of the comments of yesterday's committee meeting, it was just a question of whether we should be numbering these... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Renata Jęch:...signations.]] ...these decorations, because it's about a second before you start considering who was more deserving and who was less deserving. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether you share or share these ideas so that he can make such changes so as not to number these awards.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u138	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u139	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator, for that question. I think this enumeration... what's being struck is purely order. We began by considering that there would not be any in the pattern of this number, but considering examples of other decorations At the moment I no longer remember these analyses, they were at the very beginning We felt that this really was not the least of the things that mattered. In fact, these numbers will, as I say, be of such a purely order nature. I don't think you have to look at the order of these numbers for any meaning depending on whether the entity is awarded the No.1 award or the next issue. Anyway, as with all the other decorations you're giving to the president... Please note that this does not affect their character and their meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u140	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u141	The Minister, just now in the very question of Senator Jackowski, sounded exactly the opposite thesis, which is why it was my question. It's not so obvious to me that we won't have a fight in a minute, who's got the number one award, who's number two, and who's number three.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u142	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I think it is important that we focus on commemorating the merits of the entity, the merits which have been incurred for the Republic of Poland, so as not to marginalize the purpose for which this award has been established. And the discussion about order, numbers, I think, is probably less important than the fact that there is a law establishing such an important award commemorating entities and persons who have made such a huge contribution to the fight for our present Poland. I think that we should consider this as the most important message of this particular award that we are seeking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u144	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Renata Jęch: Thank you.]] Questions, please. If there isn't, let me ask you a question: would it be a solution if numbering has its long tradition in the Polish heraldica to give a number broken for a year? That would remove the issue that you were talking about, Senator Pociej, the first issue. It would be repeated every year, so he would no longer have the character we are concerned about.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u145	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I can take this into consideration and actually ask the Heraldic Commission if the practice is... As far as I'm concerned, not all markings have this practice. But we can really prepare a summary of how well that is appropriate. Thank you very much. I can accept...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u146	I suggest you think about it, because then... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Renata Jęch: Yes. Thank you.]] Senator Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u147	Excuse me, this will be in the form of a question, but the answer will be in this question. I mean, the Heraldary Commission at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, which I consulted, of course, the Western Cross, clearly made it clear to me that numbering is the result of a technical and not a dignity need. Therefore, there is no such threat here, although interpretation can always be further going than, so to speak, the scope of intent, in this case the Heraldic Commission. But the interpretation should not go in the direction of dignity, but in the direction of numbering and lists of persons and institutions that have been awarded with such an order. According to the Heraldic Commission, such requirements have undoubtedly been neglected so far. This Western Cross may, to some extent, constitute a reason to determine after a year, 2, 3, 18 years, whether it is necessary to amend the law on awards and decorations, ordering the introduction of numbering. So that there's a big request that we don't test it for now. We can always change this law, as well as the Orders and Awards Act. It's a certain attempt to enlist. It is also a proposal of the Heraldic Commission in a good pre-war Polish tradition, because then the numbering was always accompanied by orders.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u148	Thank you very much. Senator Infantry. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u149	Mr. Marshal, leaning towards the doubts that you have raised, and to the explanation of Professor Zarin, I would suggest perhaps a reverse order, that is simply to assume that we have a base thousand, we start with a thousand and go down, reduce numbers. [[And there will be joyous creation...]] Then there will be no doubt whether someone is distinguished or not, and this will provide some order. Then we have an unambiguous number, and the incoming numbers will come to position one. Once this thousand is gone, we'll start at 2,000 and then we'll go down again... I think the wolf will be full and the sheep will be fine. Thank you very much. My respects.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u150	Thank you very much. Senator Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u151	I'd like to do math... I'm asking that we don't hurt math, because numbering with numbers in the decimal system... [[Joyful creation.]] ...or pairs of numbers are always numbering and you can always recreate order, that's when someone got some kind of award. And I'd really like to ask... The point is that somebody doesn't ever laugh at us, that in the Senate we're having this kind of discussion, except for basic mathematical knowledge.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u152	And this is all because of Senator Jackowski. [[As usual, Jackowski.]] [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej: As usual.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I didn't say that. Does the Minister wish to comment on this statement? [[No, let's just cut it out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u153	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. If I may say so... I'd feel touched if one of my ancestors or people who could pretend, so to speak, to receive such a decoration, and it would have a number... And if we'd already assumed that. Only a thousand will be spent. I believe that as a country, as Poland, we cannot define such a closed catalogue for the present time, because these people, as we know, can be very much in the world. Our task, our determination, should be to seek and give such awards to more and more people.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u154	Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u155	I would just like to ask the Minister for two or three words of comment. Would you like to comment very much, but these are very critical remarks from the Ministry of Culture? Would you mind answering that question?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u156	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u157	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, maybe I'll try to find out if they were that critical. They were comments... [[I withdraw the words very, very much.]] Thank you very much. As Senator Żaryn presented it, the comments of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage ended... Otherwise, there was a discussion between the resorts about these comments, but they concerned the principles, the formula and whether or not we should actually establish such a distinction. In the explanatory memorandum of the submitted project, the need to create such a distinction is exposed. Please note that when setting up a twin decoration, the Eastern Cross, the Ministry of Culture in its opinions even glorified the establishment of such a decoration and was very positive. I think there's been some misunderstanding here as a rule. Later, Mr. Senator, these comments were no longer that critical. I would like to stress that, for the moment, these matters are still subject to agreement. I also think that the Ministry of Culture will soon withdraw from its comments. Thank you very much. [[I can agree that they were unenthusiastic.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u158	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. I will not report this as an amendment, because it will be possible to complete this further seismic treatment. Do you not think that the catalogue of initiators who submit their proposals to the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs should be supplemented by two entities, namely Polonia organisations, who are aware of what was going on outside Poland, and the President of the Institute of National Remembrance? It could be not only the opinion body, but also the initiating body.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u160	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please pay attention to the article. 3 (1) (a) 2nd draft law. The Foreign Minister shall submit proposals either on his own initiative or on the initiative of associations and associations of combatants. Later, specific entities are listed. However, the burden of this initiative lies with the Minister responsible for foreign affairs. In carrying out his statutory tasks, the Minister cooperates with all Polish organizations where we have our representation, where our offices are, but not only. We cooperate with practically all Polish organizations. That's an explanation. The Minister's initiative is precisely for this reason enshrined in the bill so that the Minister makes such proposals and accepts them from Polish institutions. The second part of the senator's question referred to the president of the Institute of National Remembrance. The record proposed in Article. In paragraph 3, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2 reads: after obtaining a positive opinion of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. So at every request, the opinion of the president of the Institute of National Remembrance is binding, so the president... [[But please note that he cannot make such a proposal, with such an initiative.]] He participates in every trial. I think it was formulated in such a way that, however, the inspiration for the application was not that I would say so... that it should not be submitted by the president... It happened for an important reason. The Institute, in its tasks, maybe... I mean, the knowledge and materials that are in the resources of the Institute of National Remembrance should be relevant when issuing opinions that are... The institute itself is reputable, so I think this role has been properly presented. I think that such a wide group of entities entitled to submit proposals will fully provide us with the opportunity to collect data on all possible entities that will be marked with this Cross, with this award.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u162	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Renata Jęch: Thank you.]] I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u163	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to congratulate and thank Professor Żaryn, because, as it turned out during the debate and during the work on this award, as well as on the Eastern Cross, the necessary distinction, in our policy or in the practice of order-decoration, there are gaps and indeed two decorations needed to be established, which would somehow show the independence of Poles and a very difficult period of our history from 1939 to 1989 and would allow us to honour both living and dead people and organisations. As I understand it, also organisations that may no longer exist at the moment, because they were set up on purpose, and this goal, after regaining independence, was exhausted. So these organizations no longer exist, but their commemoration in the form of such a distinction will not only be a gesture from the Republic of Poland, will be as a proof of memory, but will also have a pedagogical purpose to show that, however, during this difficult period of our history, we had support for both people and institutions, and these efforts of independence, marked by various breaks, such as 1956, 1968, 1970, 1976, 1980, 1981 and finally 1989, as well as the response in the West to these political events... This in some way also showed the attitude of the western public, generally quite kind and very kind to our independent pursuits. I would like to point out that during the period of the Polish People's Republic there were, however, a whole series of activities which somehow gave way to the construction of an independent Polish country. I am thinking here, for example, of the Eastern policy that was implemented by the Holy See. Let me remind you in this context For example, the figure of Pope Paul VI, who in 1972 regulated the ecclesiastical status of the northern lands and recovered lands, establishing new bishops in areas which had only apostolic administrations and their ecclesiastical status was not finally decided. It was an important event, which may have already passed away in the stream of other important events, but I think the architects of these actions I'm thinking of church diplomats here, perhaps some of them are alive, perhaps some of them are dead, and they might also be included, so to speak, in a palette about such a distinction, not to mention, of course, charities. Senator Żaryn mentioned how St. Catherine, where gifts just came from Protestant churches... I can say that I took part in this, although occasionally, because as a student during the martial law I was delivering gifts which the Augsburg-Reformed Church received in Poland. We traveled around Wielkopolska and the Łódź Voivodeship and delivered these gifts. I have an anecdote to tell you. ROMO, or Reserve Police Departments of the Civic Militia, usually patrolled the roads and their chopsticks or lollipops stopped what one of the cars was inside and looked at what was inside. We used such a delivery car to carry these goods, and they were extremely scarce at the time, for example chocolate or some food products permanently packed, because this aid was also of this kind. The argument that best spoke to these romantic people was chocolate received from us at that time in a completely different atmosphere. I'm saying this to show that there were also such situations in the winter at the beginning of 1982. High Izbo, it is very good that we are going out with this legislative initiative. I hope that these works will take place quickly in the Seym, and relatively quickly this award will be found in the palette of official Polish decorations. I would just like to say a few more words about this unwanted discussion about numbering. I am personally convinced by the arguments of the Heraldic Commission. I think that the hierarchy of these distinctions, the fact of who will receive the award number 0001, and who will receive the award number 0002, has no practical meaning, but is more of a order and methodological character. There's no, I don't know, degrees of this award, no first grade, no second grade, no third grade. So that I think this discussion was a little uptight. The intention of my question to the Minister was only whether such a preliminary catalogue of people who deserve this award... because it is also necessary to take into account the time factor and first of all to review the people who are still alive. In my opinion, they should first be considered as persons to be awarded this award. I'm glad this initiative is. I congratulate the professor once again because it is his stubbornness, determination and ability to win allies at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in other state institutions that will lead to a happy finale, which I think will happen in about two hours when we pass this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u164	Thank you very much. Professor, senator Żaryn. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the first sentences, I would like to refer somewhat to the words of my predecessor and first of all to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Chancellery of the President of the Republic for the fact that so quickly and unambiguously my translation of the value of adopting this law has come to the conviction of the people who work there and hold high positions. Without the support of the Foreign Office and the President's Office, it would be more difficult to proceed. I would also like to thank the currently absent Senator Zdrojewska from the Civic Platform, because she was one of the people who showed me the path of proceeding in relation to the history that took place last year in the Senate, i.e. the process of establishing the Eastern Cross. Undoubtedly, what was a kind of shared experience, that is, a joint act on the Eastern Cross, led me to conclude that after talking to the senator that it was worth pursuing this Western Cross, so that he could enter into what I call it and I will call the Polish historical policy. So much for your due thanks. And I hope that, indeed, the law on the Western Cross will soon be passed. I also want to emphasize very strongly that this is certainly the right time in the sense that this may be the last moment to repair our various Polish negligence. Both the Eastern Cross and the Western Cross, these two distinctions, which I hope will constitute important distinctions in the hierarchy of Polish decorations and awards, will be such races over time. This racing is very important and necessary, because today we can find many more people who will be able to receive the same award, this award, although of course we must also make it clear to ourselves that it will be awarded especially posthumously. But I hope that this first list of people who will be distinguished will be a list of those who are alive and who we can really hug as Poles for what these people have done for us. They will probably be organizations and people who helped Poland and Poles especially in the 1980s. And again it will have a very important dimension, because the 1980s is the time which is active for generations today, which also creates this contemporary message about Poland, sometimes probably still the most important. I mean, we, our generations, are growing out of these experiences of the 1980s, so let us arrange as the generations that rule Poland today, what belongs to us, i.e. Let's show, among other things. gratitude when we can still do it, because in 10, 20 years we won't be there. So let's not leave our children and the next generation what we really can do today. In this sense, therefore, I think there is an important time and place for this establishment of the Western Cross. And one last thing, but also, I think, very important. Of course, the Foreign Minister could not say this, and I did not even think that she would answer Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question and give a list of the first beneficiaries. Please remain patient, I'm sure this list will, but it won't be revealed today. But I hope I don't reveal some secret office when I say the East Cross and the West Cross And all the time I refer to these two Crosses as parallel decorations, which are to interact together and create a Polish hysterical policy and Polish gratitude... This is how the laws on these Crosses are designed so that it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that can be the operator who will coincide with the proper decorations. What does that mean? That means, among other things. The fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as we all know, has the responsibility of embassies, consulates, institutes, means that it has these instruments of impact on the whole world, and thanks to this impact it can run a whole set of activities, let's call it, Polonia, which we very, very much hope for. Now I'm referring to Senator Czerwinski's question. Of course, we cannot imagine as initiators of this law that Polonia is deprived of the right to participate in the acquisition and transfer of knowledge to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On the contrary: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the right party, will be the party which, with the help of embassies and consulates, will promote knowledge about Polish history on the one hand, and on the other hand, it will move information threads that will make it possible for us to reach the right people. And we will reach, to a large extent, thanks to Polonia. As a result, this initiative must... Of course, she has already launched the process of building such a team within the Ministry, which will evaluate, will collect information about... This team is already being prepared of course. I will not betray names or titles, but I assure you that I have already participated in the preliminary meeting myself and... The Ministry is not surprised by these laws, but is preparing to implement them. If the intention of these questions was to ask whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was prepared... Although this ministry should talk about it, not me, but from my knowledge, the senator's knowledge, who participated in the meetings, shows that I can respond to this, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is prepared to implement both the Eastern Cross Act and the Western Cross Act. Last sentence. I'm gonna be so happy when... I appeal to your senators to build a list of possible beneficiaries here in the Senate, because it is we who may know, remember... that may also have a need for a heart to honor someone. I would be very grateful if such voices, conclusions would reach me or directly to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I promise you, if they get to me, I'm sure I'll take care of it properly and hand them over to the Foreign Office. Do not limit yourself, because this is really a very useful thing if Poles and Poland can be grateful. In conclusion, I'll tell you, please don't think of it as exhibitionism. The person who is widely known is known primarily as the person who saved Władysław Szpilman. It is a person who has already been awarded posthumously by the Polish State This is Captain Wilhelm Hosenfeld. I won't dwell on it, because there's no need for me to tell my family's story, but I'll tell you in one or two sentences that I wouldn't be in the world if it wasn't for Wilhelm Hosenfeld. And every Polish family has such Hosenfelds, such people as they can say they owe them a lot. These are Polish fates and Polish families. If anyone's interested, I can tell you why I owe this German officer that I'm in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u166	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Szymański made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. The third reading would only cover the vote. It will be held today along with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. I would remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Tadeusz Kopcia, is included in print No 399, and the report is in print No 399 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Leszek Piechota, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a report from the Legislative Commission on the adoption of a draft resolution on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. The resolution was made on the initiative of the esteemed Senator Tadeusz Kopcia. At its meeting on 31 January 2017, the Commission examined and amended the draft resolution submitted by the applicants at first reading. The Commission requests the adoption by the Senate of the attached draft resolution, contained in print No 399 S. Ladies and gentlemen, 31 October 1517 is regarded as the symbolic beginning of the Reformation. Marcin Luther then announced his theological thesis in Wittenberg. The Reformation has been a broad movement from the beginning, covering many backgrounds. Her ideas penetrated Anglo-Saxon, Scandinavian and Central Europe, including Poland. Today, the Lutheran churches count about 80 million believers, and several hundred million Christians from various Protestant and Anglican denominations are admitted to the spiritual heritage of the Reformation. The Reformation was part of a sequence of important events that shaped the contemporary face of Western civilization, not only religious but also cultural, social, economic and political. The Polish Protestantism not only embraced the idea of European Reformation but also influenced its course. The icon of such a relationship was the activity of Jan Łaski, who was well-deserved not only for Polish culture, but also for the history of Belgium, the Netherlands and England. Reformation in Poland has become the forerunner of ecumenical dialogue. The Sandomierz agreement signed in 1570 between Lutherans, Calvins and the Czech brothers is considered to be the oldest ecumenical act in Europe. On Polish soil, the Reformation was revived by the spirit of service to its homeland. Polish reformists were actively involved in the modernisation of the state as early as the 16th century. They had the opportunity to do so, because in the middle of the 16th century, i.e. In the times of the greatest power of the Republic of Poland, more than half of the senators were Protestants. Similar proportions were found in the House of Members. Related to the reform of politicians, executional activist, nine-time Marshal of the Chamber of Parliament of the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Sienicki is recognized as the founder of the Polish legal and political terminology. Andrzej Frycz Modrzewski, educated in Krakow and Wittenberg, was the author of the State Modernization Program. Education development is one of the greatest achievements of cultural reformation. Its determinant was the formation of maturity, reflectiveness and autonomy of thinking. In addition to secondary schools, they were established in Gdansk, Elbląg and Toruń. The Reformation emphasized the importance of the mother tongue and thus influenced the development of Polish literature and national culture. Thanks to Protestantism, Polishness survived in Cieszyński Silesia and Mazury. The history of many Poles of the Evangelicals - Mikołaj Rej, the father of Polish literature and the creator of Polish literary language; Jerzy Trzanowski, an evangelical clergyman, the author of religious songs sung today in many Protestant churches in the world; pastors Krzysztof Mrongowiusz and Gustaw Giewiusz, well-deserved social activists and advocates of Polish culture in Gdansk and Mazury. Many outstanding scholars have assimilated and become luminaries of national culture, such as Samuel Bogumił Linde, linguist, educator and translator, creator of the Polish language vocabulary, Oskar Henryk Kolberg, ethnography, folklorist and composer. It is impossible to ignore the influence that the Reformation had on the creation of religious music in the history of Polish culture. Multi-voice songs enriched with folk music were created. Polish evangelists actively participated in the struggle for independence. General Józef Longin Sowiński, commander of the artillery of the Polish Kingdom during the November Uprising, gave an excellent example of cultivating the best patriotic traditions; counter-admiral Józef Unrug, commander of the Polish fleet and defense of Hel in 1939; President of Warsaw Stefan Starzyński; born in the Evangelical family General Władysław Anders and many others. About 30% of Evangelical clergymen died in concentration camps during World War II. Bishop of the Evangelical-Augsburg Church in Poland, priest Juliusz Bursche, for his national work, among others. during the plebiscites in Mazury and Warmia, and for attending the Versailles conference he paid the price of his life. In 1942, he died in a concentration camp in Oranienburg. This year, evangelicals in Poland are involved in the worldwide celebration of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. The Polish Honorary Committee of the celebrations was set up, which includes: Primate of the Church of Sweden, Ambassador of the Evangelical Church of Germany, President of the World Lutheran Federation, Secretary General of the Community of Evangelical Churches in Europe, and Archbishop Wojciech Polak, Primate of Poland, and many, many other prominent people. During the jubilee year many religious and cultural events are planned throughout the country. Poland participates in several international reform projects, including: such as the European Reform Cities, the European Stations on the Way of Reformation, the European Cultural Route of Reformation. The year 2017 was declared the Year of Reformation in Silesia. For years Poland has been a homeland for people of different religions and nationalities. It is also a home for Polish evangelicals. Taking into account the contribution of Protestant communities to the development of culture, science, education and economy and to preserving the independence of our common homeland, let us remember the achievements of our ancestors, referring to the best traditions of freedom and mutual respect for religion, commemorating the reformation with an occasional resolution and popularizing it through educational activities. At the moment, let me read the content of this resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. In the year of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, the Senate of the Republic of Poland wishes to honor the movement which co-shaped the religious, cultural and economic face of the West, including our Homeland. The ideas of the Reformation penetrated Poland in the 16th century, which was a model of religious tolerance in the then Europe. Evangelism has influenced the development of culture, mother tongue, education, religious music, social activity and national and civic awareness. He gave Poland many passionate patriots, many people of intellect, spirit and entrepreneurship. Polish evangelicals actively supported the independence of the State and acted to modernise it. Taking into account the important contribution of Protestant communities to Poland's development, in relation to the best traditions of freedom and mutual respect for religion, the Senate of the Republic of Poland decides to commemorate the Reformation in the year of its anniversary. The Senate of the Republic of Poland invites the authorities of the state and scientific and cultural institutions to take into account in their activities in 2017 the need to commemorate the contribution of the reform movement to the development and prosperity of the Polish society. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u168	Thank you very much. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the senator of the applicant, Mr Tadeusz Kopcia. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[We're not gonna bully you.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u169	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 500th anniversary of the Reformation is certainly the most important event for Reformed Churches, also for all of their members in Poland and around the world. It's natural. It is right, too, to recall the outstanding figures of the Evangelicals of our history, who are examples of the best Polish patriotic and national traditions. I would add that many of these figures could be honoured individually with a resolution. However, I will call into question this anniversary by a resolution of the Senate, especially by Catholics. [[Voice from the room: No bravo.]] [[Quiet, please.]] As a Catholic, I would like to share my reflection on why I am not going to celebrate this anniversary. I am talking about this with such deep regret, because celebrating this anniversary would be a handshake to the greatest breakdown of the Church that occurred due to Marcin Luther's speech in 1517. And I will immediately say that I am not going to argue or strike in the pursuit of unity of Christians, I am not undermining the value of prayer meetings, ecumenical meetings that Christians are to unite around the Gospel of Christ. But I will also say immediately that I know that all these meetings will not cover the divisions that the Reformation has made in Christendom. What divisions are we talking about? Not everyone realizes that Protestantism has little to do with Christianity. It is a kind of new religion, a religion that challenged all the dogma of the Catholic Church, including the most important: the dogma of Christ's presence in the Most Holy Sacrament. That is why I think that the slogan is today words coming from many sides, including Catholics, about the need for a so-called common path that would lead Catholics and Lutherans, as the enthusiasts of ecumenism say, from conflict to communion. I do not hide that at present the only thing that seems to connect both Catholics and Lutherans is the state of deep crisis that we see in all Christendom, especially in Western countries. This crisis of believers has the basis for secularism, which was most affected by Lutheran. A typical example here is the Scandinavian countries, where Lutheranism has become almost a state religion. This country dictates to the church even the theological solutions strictly. This has led to Sweden, for example, becoming a country of multiculturalism. There's only 2% Lutheran practice and 10% Lutheran practice. the population confesses Islam. In a word, the Lutheran Church in Western countries made a kind of self-destruction after World War II. He left the church tradition and began to accept all cultural changes in the contemporary world, adapting the Decalogue to the so-called fundamental rights, i.e. to all trends and changes in customs. Here I will refer to such an example from Sweden, where a pastor, a Swedish pastor, was punished with prison for a negative reference to the law on homosexual relationships on the rights of marriage. However, he did not intend to condemn homosexuals, but merely wanted to remind them of the teaching of the church about marriage. And this teaching was called hate speech in Sweden, and the pastor was sentenced to prison. For Lutherans, I think the celebration of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation is very important, they are some chance to seek the original zeal. Probably also, when attending various ecumenical and prayer meetings with Catholics, they seek for themselves some breath of life with the Gospel. But from my point of view, ecumenism is the path for the Catholic Church to forfeit the apostolic deposit, leaving the Gospel of Christ. I have heard such an ecumenical slogan, spoken even by the hierarchs of the Catholic Church, quote: "What unites us is much greater than what divides us." I would like to ask what actually unites Catholics and Lutherans. To put it simply, we are not united by any of the 7 sacraments. And they are the basis of the faith of the Catholic Church. We are not even united by baptism, the only sacrament recognized by Lutherans, because, according to the Catholics, baptism removes original sin, and Lutheran says that original sin cannot be cancelled because human nature is radically corrupt and sin is invincible. Let me remind you that Luther preached the slogan: "You sin harder, but you believe even more. " In other words, according to Lutheran, man is incapable of good and can do nothing but sin and blindly trust in God's mercy. Sola fide et sola scriptura, or faith itself and life according to the Scriptures, lead to salvation, but it is God who foresaw who will be saved and who will be condemned. This principle of Luther became the source of individualism, and at the same time relativism, questioning the authority of the Church and the Pope. Luther called the Pope the apostle of Satan, the Antichrist. He could be spared these invectives, but it must not be forgotten that Luther questioned the greatest sanctity of Catholics, the greatest source of God's grace, namely the Holy Mass, reducing it to the ordinary commemoration of the Last Supper. I know that Pope Francis, being in Lund, Sweden on 12 October last year, said: "We too must look with love and honesty at our past, acknowledge our error and ask forgiveness. I understand that Pope Francis sees the errors of the Catholic Church, which led to Luther's speech, but it should not be forgotten that in response to the Reformation at the Council of Trent, there were firm words about the contradiction of Catholic faith with Protestant faith. To this day, the Church has not called off these words because it would have to depart from Christ's teaching. To conclude, I would like to say that as believers, we should meet together and pray, bear witness to faith, go to holiness. However, 500 years of reformation cannot be celebrated or there are ecumenical meetings with no awareness of differences that cannot be overcome. If, for example. An ecumenical body came to the agreement that Catholics and Protestants could join in holy communion, and this is more and more often said about it, which would be an absolute desecration of the Most Holy Sacrament. And the reason for this, as I said, is the lack of faith of Protestants in the real presence of Jesus in the Eucharist. Finally, I would like to remind you once again that the condemnation of Marcin Luther's claims at the Council of Trents has not been cancelled or cancelled until today. So I am in favour of common prayers and meetings, but also from simple reason I will ask whether it is possible that after Protestants have so profoundly rejected all Catholic dogmas, unity will ever blossom between us. With this in mind, I do not intend to commemorate the resolution of the Senate of Reformation, so I will abstain from voting on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u170	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn. Welcome to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I too, like Senator Czesław Ryszka, am not interested in honoring the division in the Church. I am Catholic, I am a believer, and in this form of resolution I do not want to support. But let me honestly admit that the fact that I am a Catholic and a believer is not the most important thing in this context in which we are here. In my opinion, something else is more important, which I will say not only as a practicing Catholic who cannot honor the breakup in the Church, but also as a senator. I personally believe that the Polish State should not speak on matters which do not belong to it, in other words, the Polish State, and therefore also the Senate, should not speak about honoring something which is the object of the dispute or the path of ecumenism between Protestant churches and the Roman Catholic Church. It's not our job. That was the first and second paragraph of my speech. And now the third paragraph, the longest. I hope I can make it. If not, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will continue, because together we want to make very far-reaching amendments. If we have amendments, that means we don't want to reject this project. Well, this third paragraph will start with the fact that, unlike the wording of the draft resolution, a lot of interesting topics are included in the explanatory memorandum, including the explanatory memorandum, which was read by the rapporteur, Mr Piechota. I believe that parts of this justification are very good and should be included in the resolution, but in the resolution which honours not the 500th anniversary of the reformation, only the fact that among the citizens of the Polish state And among Poles, when we didn't have a country of our own There were a lot of Protestants who had a wonderful service to their homeland. It's not the most important thing, but I'll tell you that I'm Protestant too. My mom went to Roman Catholicism when she was 16. The whole family on my mother's side was Calvin's, and I know how beautifully my grandparents and great-grandfathers enlisted in the history of Poland. But of course it's not the most important thing that I come from the Calvin family. The important thing is that objectively speaking, Polish Protestants were wonderfully involved in Polish history. So let's take advantage of this and adopt a resolution that will honor the relevant entity, i.e. not a split in the Church, but Protestants of Polish, outstanding Polish patriots. So much for the third paragraph. And the fourth paragraph is already concrete amendments. The list of these amendments is here, so I'll leave it to the marshal. This is a list drawn up by us, i.e. by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and by me. The basic amendment concerns the title, which would be: a resolution on commemorating the 500th anniversary of the presence of Protestants in Polish lands. This amendment will result in the presence of Protestants who have been in Poland for 500 years: in the First Republic, in the 19th century, when we did not have a state, in the Second Republic and in a particularly hard time when it comes to Polish Protestants, i.e. during the period of German occupation, when many of them were admitted to Polishness, even though they were often German-born people who went to concentration camps and lost their lives. If we recognize that this subject is worthy of being honored, and no one has, I hope, doubts that it is, I am talking about Polish Protestants and at the same time Polish patriots. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and I propose that the first paragraph be read as follows: The Senate of the Republic of Poland wishes to honor Polish Protestants who co-created the religious, cultural, social and economic face of our Homeland. In the second paragraph, in my opinion, the correct contents are mixed with the wrong content, so we allow ourselves to give up this paragraph, and in return we would like to introduce just those passages which are contained in the justification and which I would like to read: "The history of the evangelical Poles has been passed by such characters as evangelicals.: Mikołaj Rej, father of Polish literature and creator of Polish literary language; Jerzy Trzanowski, evangelical clergyman, author of a collection of religious songs sung to this day in many Protestant churches around the world; pastors Krzysztof Mrongowiusz and Gustav Giewiusz, deserving social activists and advocates of Polish culture in Gdansk and Mazury. Many outstanding figures were assimilated and became luminaries of national culture, such as Samuel Bogumił Linde, linguist, educator and translator, creator of the Polish Language vocabulary, Oskar Henryk Kolberg, ethnography, folklorist and composer. Polish evangelists actively participated in the struggle for independence. Excellent examples of the best patriotic traditions were: General Józef Longin Sowiński, commander of the artillery of the Polish Kingdom during the November Uprising; counter-admiral Józef Unrug, commander of the Polish fleet and defense of Hel in 1939; President of Warsaw Stefan Starzyński; born in the Evangelical family of Gen. Władysław Anders and many others. About 30% of Evangelical clergymen died in concentration camps during World War II. Bishop of the Evangelical-Augsburg Church in Poland Fr. Julius Bursche for his national work, among others. during the plebiscites in Mazury and Warmia, and participation in the Versailles conference paid the price of life In 1942, he died in a concentration camp in Oranienburg. And that's the end of the extended paragraph. In the third paragraph, in turn, the words "Reformation in the year of its Jubilee," as you can see, avoid the word "reformation" so as not to interfere in matters of sacrum. It is replaced by the "500th anniversary of Protestants on Polish lands." And they would be honored by us. Similarly, in the fourth paragraph, the words "reform movement', which can be understood differently, misguided and not fully verifiable, are replaced by "protestants'; that is, again, those we want to honor. I would like to formally place these amendments on the hands of the marshal and appeal to the Senate for us to adopt them. I think that the resolution in this sound will do a lot of good, and certainly not hurt the state Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u172	Thank you very much. Your Marshal... Yes, of course. Thank you for the correction. Your Marshal, Mr. Underneath. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to make amendments, two amendments. In fact, I do not touch the religious dimension here, nor do I object to the very essence of the resolution, but to its editorials. Second paragraph. In this paragraph I found some unlucky words, for example. It's even hard to pronounce. After that, many people of intellect, instead of just intellectuals, etc. I propose that this second paragraph should be read as follows: "Ideas of the Reformation passed into Poland in the 16th century, which was a model of religious tolerance in Europe at that time. Evangelicals influenced the development of culture, mother tongue, education, sacral music, and acted socially, raising awareness of national and citizens. They gave Poland many passionate patriots and intellectuals. Polish evangelicals actively supported the independence of the State and acted to modernise it. As far as the second amendment is concerned, I propose that we give up the fourth paragraph at all. Here I found such a very unhappy vocabulary: in 2017 they took into account the need to commemorate the contribution of the reform movement to development, etc. This is a very not Polish-edited term. I must inform you from your journalistic duty that there is no text that could be harmed by a shortcut. And that's how it is in this case. It is possible to give up all responsibility from this paragraph, especially since the previous paragraph exhausts the marks of what we would like to put in this text. And on the occasion, I would like to appeal to the High House that, by drafting resolutions, we should be making special efforts in the Senate when it comes to the texts of resolutions that come out of here. Why here? Because, as I recall, in 2005 or 2006 there was a law on Polish language, which, unfortunately, is increasingly an act absolutely marginalized, absolutely. And this is unfortunately also in education, in journalism, in the media and in advertising, simply in life. I think we should go back to the issue of the enforcement of this law. How you listen to people in the media, how you read various preaching in shops, institutions, etc., how you listen to our young people, the hair is on your head. We should make sure that the bill, which was passed with a view to saving Polish language, becomes operational... Now I think it's a crutch. We should think about this and take some initiative to make the enforcement of this law more effective. That's it. I'm returning two amendments here. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But please read the whole...]] Amendment 2 is the resignation of the fourth paragraph in its entirety. I read Amendment 2 so there's no reason...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would, of course, like to support the amendments to the draft resolution that Senator Jan Żaryn and I are making. I would also like to say that, in my opinion or in our opinion, it is not the role of the Senate to enter into internal divisions in Christendom and to evaluate these phenomena. The discussion has been going on for 500 years. The Senate as a state body should not enter into such diwags and assessments because they will never be final. What we can do is respect people who were also Christians and lived on Polish lands. It is very important here to draw attention to why we propose that the wording be included in the title on Polish lands. Due to the particularly active attitude of many Protestants during the period when there was no Polish state and when there was no institution of the Polish state, from the end of the 18th century until 1918. There was Linde, the former Fajfer dynasty and other families, which took part in the Polish social life, Polish economic life, Polish cultural life, Polish political life, Polish military life, as well as in the field of science, education and education very many valuable initiatives. And with their attitude, they acted with their initiatives for the common good. Therefore, we propose that we change this so that the Senate expresses its conviction that we appreciate the effort of all those who contributed to the multiplication of Polish achievements, regardless of their religion, their origin, their location in the social hierarchy, etc. The point is to make a positive interpretation of their contribution to our history. As we know, the tradition of the First Republic was a tradition of multiculturalism and multi-ethnicity. It was also a tradition of tolerance and a tradition of the ability to enter into union. I am talking here about the Horodelian Union. I'm running a little backwards before 1517. This gave the foundation of the Jagiellonian Republic. From the Treaty-Law side, this was a unique, very rare solution on the ground of Europe at that time. We have a lasting contribution and achievements here. This is also our national heritage and that is why I support these amendments as much as possible. I can share a personal reflection here. Well, I mentioned on the occasion of the previous point that I was bound It was, let's call it, a bond of friendship. With my friend, who was a Calvin, he was a Reformed Evangelist. It was with him in the martial law that we delivered gifts which the church from Switzerland sent here, to Poland, to Poles. For a time I also collaborated with the writing "One," published by the Evangelical-Augsburg Church. It is a monthly magazine that not only addresses the theological, religious issues, but also deals with social issues. I wrote there, among other things. reports, including about the no longer existing parish in Kuców Here, bow to Senator Dobkowski because this is his constituency. It was a disappearing parish because I wrote this report about the mid - 1980's It simply took... The Belchat mine, expanding, by extracting brown coal, simply led to the degradation of the entire villages. For me, as a young historian and publicist, it was fascinating when I entered the cottages belonging to the villagers of Kuców and could see the 17th century Bibles, which were carefully stored and read in these houses. They were read, they had bended horns, they came from the 17th century. This shows a certain heritage, a certain tradition, the attachment of those communities that... It wasn't a dominant religion, it was a perfectly minority religion. As for the theological aspects of these disputes, I would not like to express myself in this speech on this subject, but I think that we should adopt a resolution which will commemorate these outstanding Poles, the inhabitants of Polish lands, who brought a lot of good into our common heritage, and who professed a different religion than that which is dominant in Polish lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u176	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to point out first of all that there is a logical gap between the title of the resolution proposed by the applicants and the justification. My previous speakers have already noticed this in part: the resolution in the title speaks about the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, the justification is about outstanding merits of Poles of Protestant religion, and these are two completely different matters. If there was a resolution on the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, the justification would have to be different, and then we would have been involved in the value of various religions that existed and still existed on Poland's lands. One might ask why we should worship only one religion, or two or three religious groups are present in Poland. But then we would be dealing with an uneven approach to these religions. In such a state of affairs, we cannot adopt a resolution which in the title... on the basis of the justification which has been attached to this project. It seems that the senators speaking before me Sorry for such generalizations try to save the situation and say: let's celebrate these useful, honest, good, distinguished Poles of Protestants. That's what they were, no doubt. These quotes and the names mentioned are convincing, those people are. But I'm sorry, we worship them because they were outstanding Poles, or because they were Protestants of outstanding Poles? So we're back to confessing. This criterion has not been rejected by the gentlemen in their proposal. Come on. If we are to celebrate outstanding Polish Poles of one religion, we should also celebrate Poles of other religions. Why shouldn't we celebrate the prominent Jews? And there were many of them, or Poles of the faith of Moses? We should celebrate them, too. Is that our role? If we find out it is, then let's do it. But not with that kind of justification again. We're back to square one again. The starting point is the confession of a group of Poles who were outstanding, who had great merits in the history of our nation, our country. Finally, the last point is that I have a certain doubt whether the noble ones quoted, known to us from school and otherwise, the characters were so outstanding because they were outstanding by themselves, or because they were followers of a particular religion? For if not because they were followers of a particular religion, then 500 years of Reformation is no reason to worship it. Any other reason is good, but without this connection to religion. I see all the inconsistencies here, and that's why I'm going to vote against. I will even try to ask that, following my course of reasoning, ladies and gentlemen, the senators also vote against this resolution. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u178	Thank you very much. Senator Probier. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to refer to the statements of Senator Ryszka, who made such a very thorough analysis, above all, historical but also theological. As far as theology is concerned, I do not feel very competent to participate in this discussion. But what would I like to draw attention to? For some personal reflection. Well, I come from Silesia and have spent at least a short time since I was a child on vacation in Silesia Cieszyński in Beskidy and I had an unnoticed opportunity to meet Protestants. How? By having fun with the kids. I wasn't even aware of it because we were playing the same game, eating the same thing. In time, I noticed that we were going to church at different times and, as it turned out later, to different churches. The road was far, the buses weren't there yet. And so slowly I realized that there are people of another faith next to me, alongside Catholics. As far as the Silesian bishops are concerned, my Gliwice bishop often participates in ecumenical services. The sermons at our services are made by Protestants and vice versa. And I've always been very respectful to my hosts in Beskydy, and I respect them too. I firmly trust that efforts to unite Christians have great meaning, these actions in an ecumenical spirit. God's judgments are unexplored, but I am convinced that we are connected and will unite more and more. Right now, what's our connection? Namely, that both Protestants and we, Catholics, are being rumbled or attempted to rumble us from public life. We see this perfectly on the example of the West. What else do we have in common? We hear about the persecutions of Christians in the world. Yes, they're Christians. Both Protestants and us They are being persecuted more and more. So I trust that the work on ecumenism must continue, and it makes sense. Do you support this greatest division in the history of Christendom? I have no opinion, but regardless of the content of the resolution, whether it is the original version or the one with the amendments, I will certainly not object. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u180	Thank you very much. Senator locksmith. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It's hard to add something to those voices that went down. I certainly identify with the party that sees the founder of the Reformation as an unfortunate event in the history of Christianity, but I am grateful to the applicant for reminding these wonderful names. It is certainly part of the history of Poland, of which we are proud, and in these names are written wonderful attitudes and characters. I am also proud of what the applicant recalled, i.e. from this period of Poland very tolerant. We can argue about Poland of the 16th century and criticize various elements of it, but one will definitely connect us The fact that during this period it was a model for the world in terms of how a state should be constructed, which would unite such different people, especially different confessions. I would like to cite an example from the justification, the one about the Senate dominated by Protestants, was so in this tolerant Poland, in which in the 16th century the ruler was a Catholic, also later, and in public ceremonies the presence of the Catholic Church was very clear. Despite all this, the Senate may have been dominated by Protestants. I'm trying to imagine if in that Senate, in the 16th century, such a resolution would be possible. Would anyone report her? I think that this not quite descriptive phenomenon of Polish tolerance was due, among other things, to the fact that this kind of resolutions were not pushed in the institutions of the state, that it was possible to... On the contrary, they tried to combine some legal acts. Because I am very close to how social life was organized in Poland at the time, I miss it and I want us to have in this respect, as in those days, I am against this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u182	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer to the words of my previous speaker from a moment ago and to the words of all those who claimed that we should not be here dealing with religious matter and that we should leave this behind. Mr. Senator, gentlemen, I think you're forgetting all the resolutions we've made here about 30 people who are very important to the Catholic Church. Therefore, I cannot accept such an argument, because it is absolutely false. We're religious, we're one religion here all the time. Fifteenth anniversary, twenty-fourth anniversary All the time. And once it's an anniversary. And it's five hundredths of another religion, and there's already a terrible resistance. As for the amendments tabled by Senator Żaryn and Senator Jackowski, gentlemen, this is a completely new text. It's a shame you weren't at the committee meeting. I, leaving the committee meeting, after rather turbulent discussions and discussions about the text that you prepared, Senator Kopeć, took the liberty of making a joke that we left half an hour earlier, because there was no Senator Zarin. But today, right now, all I can see is that I can only regret that your senator wasn't there. Gentlemen, you are once again proposing, as usual, an extremely well-versed text. After all, Senator Kopeć has offered something that is short, concrete and concise, and you are offering 20 names here. Where's Piłsudski? Are we to be offended that Senator Żaryn forgot about Piłsudski, who changed his religion in order to get married? [[That's why he's not here.]] Oh, that's why he's not here. So, as I understand it, in this respect, Senator Żaryn proposes to condemn him, but when it comes to merits for Poland, everything is fine. I think there may be at least one resolution in this House, which will be written by someone other than Senator Żaryn and Senator Jackowski. Unless you gentlemen don't allow it, and you have the absolute exclusive to propose what our House has to say. We talked about not glorifying the moment of division. Some even said it was the biggest division. Well, it seems to me that much more significant was the one in the 11th century. However, if we were to talk today, without any disgust, about the uprising of the Unite Church, it would probably not cause such controversy, even though the Orthodox ritual remained there. There wouldn't be that much controversy. And let me remind you that the heads of both churches in the 11th century were excommunicated. I haven't heard anyone call it off in connection with the Brest Union. Unless I didn't read something, but I think I've read it by looking at Senator Zarin's face. Therefore, I would very much ask that we not approach this issue from the religious point of view. Because your attitude is purely religious. You say in your argument, let's not talk about religion. And at the same time, from a religious position you say, gentlemen: we will not talk about it. And you say... Because what you're proposing and why you're suggesting... You're saying... you're judging in some way. Well, not in any way, but you're very judgmental. It's an event. And this event objectively plowed the continent, half the world, and it was a very important start to explode and cultivate the freedoms that we are so proud of. E.g. Reformation was also a beginning to many beautiful things in the 16th century. I will no longer say that, above all, what we are proud of, what we are all talking about here, i.e. that we were And, I hope, we're a tolerant nation. Therefore, I would ask very much... I really appreciate what Senator Kopeć did in the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and I would very much like to ask that we do not overturn this whole resolution, because this new text would be a completely different resolution, and in fact it should be him who should be tried completely from the beginning. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Oremski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a religious theme, but I am not convinced that it must be strengthened here, because I understand that from the perspective of a religious man worshipping the anniversary of divorce is not a good thing. I also see my Catholicism as an area of freedom, a space of such great freedom that one can criticize Maybe sometimes you'll even have to. Even the Pope, although I think it should be accompanied by far-reaching humility. And maybe that's why I'm able to accept a change in the name of this resolution today. But I take it that 500 years of reformation is a pretext for our House to tell the Polish people that Protestants lived here and live, that yes, they also shaped our history, that they meant something and meant something in Polish culture, some in Polish sport. Maybe it's time to remind those most important names. So this is the element that makes us talk about it. And that doesn't mean that we should also list Jews, Armenians, Tatars, or perhaps Unites, looking at others as if they were order. 'Cause maybe it's a pretext. Although maybe not until the 500th anniversary They're gonna happen. And maybe it's a good thing that from time to time... I would say: this is from my homeland, which is also a little Jagiellonian. There's a lot of all this. And maybe from time to time this heritage, which in this introduction of Senator Kopcia about Polish tolerance, etc. I think it's very strong and, dare I say, wisely marked... It also seems to me that it is not so simple that we are only talking about the merits of the great Poles who were Protestants by the way, because I think we are also talking about some cultural phenomena. Such a cultural phenomenon is an element related to education I think so. This is also a matter of certain Bible studies, or influences on literature, and this is a little bit of what is mentioned here, a question of religious song. Yes? I mean, these are some elements that also interacted with Catholicism, co-shaped Poland. So it's not just such a simple saying that on this occasion we mention a general from the Second World War or from the November Uprising, but we are also talking about a cultural phenomenon which, in my opinion, was. And one last thing... So once again, I would say that there may be moments when it will be worth recalling the great non-majority nation, not the majority religion. I always wonder if Kramsztyk is a Polish Jew or a Polish patriot from 1861. Let's not share it. But maybe sometimes it is worth showing such beautiful attitudes of solidarity beyond national or religious division, because they also form Poland. There is an important message for us, and I think it should be that we should be a little sensitive about the other side. For them, this date from 500 years ago was the beginning of a separate identity. Of course, if you look purely religiously, you have to say that such divisions are a scandal. But it's been 500 years, and it's made up of some other culture. And by entering into their sensitivity, I would suggest, however, that we stick to Senator Kopcia's text more or less. I think we owe it to the Polish Protestants. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u186	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kopcia.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u187	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all of you, Mr Gogacz, the Legislative Committee, for your work, for all those whom I have spoken to and who supported this draft resolution, who have not signed but have been with me. I thought I was gonna talk about something else, about Protestant merit. I also wrote not everything in the explanatory memorandum, but there is much more to be said. We're all happy... Thank you, Senator Oremski, for this message. We've been excited since 2001, we've had a little chamomile. Adam Małysz is a Protestant, he's proud of it. Today, Peter the Living... I'll also say that I'm a little worried about the words of Senator Ryszka, whom I highly appreciate... [[And me, your resolution...]] ...because... [[...not consulted with anyone.]] Since college, I've been at virtually all meetings with John Paul II and not only in these huge emotions, but also... Ever since he died, I've been getting to sources more and more, reading. And what you said, Mr. Senator, is that there's less of what's between them than what's in common, that some hierarchs... This was the basis of the entire encyclical, in which John Paul II expressed his conviction that if Christians, despite divisions, were able to unite more and more in prayer around Jesus Christ, the deeper they would realize how much smaller, even small, is what divides them, compared to what connects them. But since we say 500 years, Martin Luther, it may be worth mentioning on this occasion our beloved great compatriot, his letter, which we may not know, and it would be worth listening to after 12 years of his death to what he left us. This letter was written in the year of the Jubilee of Redemption, which we celebrated together with Protestants. I, like our President Andrzej Duda, participate in these big Friday celebrations. We're having this holiday like this... And for them, this is the most important holiday. I try to be with my brothers in the Evangelical church on Good Friday. As I did in the previous arrangement... I was the initiator of establishing a day off on the feast of the Three Kings, because I could not get over the fact that such an important day was not worshipped as a holiday. My big dream is that instead of beating on Monday It's called some kind of pagan culture... so that the triduum lasts from the Lord's Evening Meal to Sunday. But that's by the way. Now the letter of the Holy Father John Paul II on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of Marcin Luther's birth. The 500th anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther's birth is held on November 10, 1983. On this occasion, many Christians, especially the Evangelical-Lutheran religion, recall this theologian, who, at the threshold of modern times, made a fundamental contribution to the radical change in the ecclesiastical and sacral realities of the Western world. This is a concept that John Paul II often used. And then, our world is still experiencing its great influence on history. For the Catholic Church, the name Marcin Luther is associated for centuries with the memory of a painful period, and especially with the experience of the beginnings of deep divisions in the Church. For this reason, the 500th anniversary of Marcin Luther's birth should be an opportunity for us to consider, in truth and in Christian love, those who are burdened by the events of the historical time of the Reformation. The Pope is not afraid of this word reformation. In fact, it is from time to time that historical events can be better understood and presented. That is why these prominent personalities and institutions of Lutheran Christianity expressed their support for the year devoted to Luther's memory to form in a truly ecumenical spirit and to show Martin Luther in such a way as to serve the unity of Christendom. Evangelical and Catholic scientific research, which has already achieved a significant convergence of views, has led to a more complete and varied picture of Luther's personality and a complex thread of historical, social, political and ecclesiastical reality in the first half of the 16th century. As a result, Luther's deep religion was convincingly shown, and he asked with a keen passion the question of eternal salvation. It also turned out clearly that the break-up of the Church's unity cannot be reduced to misunderstanding by the Pastors of the Catholic Church, nor merely to the lack of understanding of true Catholicism on the part of Luther, even if both of these circumstances could play a role. The decisions reached had deep roots. The dispute about the relationship between faith and tradition involved the most fundamental matters relating to the correct interpretation and reception of the Christian faith, matters involving the potential of the division of the Church which could not be explained by historical reasons. This is why it is necessary for Martin Luther, as well as for the goal of restoring unity, to make a double effort. Above all, it is extremely important to continue diligent historical research. It is about obtaining, through prejudiceless and merely searching for the truth dictated by research, the correct image of the Reformator, as well as the entire Reformation era and the people who are associated with it. Wine, wherever it is found and any party concerned, should be recognised. Where the polemics darkened the look, it must be corrected, also regardless of which side it is about. Moreover, we should not be tempted to become judges of history, but merely to have a better understanding of events in order to become carriers of the truth. Only by submitting without reservation to the process of cleansing through the truth, can we find a common interpretation of the past, at the same time reaching a new starting point for today's dialogue. And this is the second thing that is imposing on us: the historical explanation relating to the past, the meaning and effects of which are still ongoing, must go hand in hand with the dialogue of faith in which we, here and now, seek unity. This dialogue finds its solid basis in what, according to the writings of the Evangelical-Lutheran religion, still connects us, also after the division, namely, in the Word of Scripture, in the creeds, in the Councils of the ancient Church. In humble contemplation of the mystery of God's providence and in piously listening to what the Spirit of God teaches us today by reminiscing the events of the Reformation age, the Church seeks to broaden the limit of her love to meet the unity of all those who, as baptized, bear the name of Jesus Christ. My special prayer and blessing accompany all ecumenical efforts for the great cause of unity of all Christians. John Paul II, Vatican, October 31, 1983. I could still talk about the chapel meeting, but I'll tell you what was a special event for me. I'll tell you about the born in Cieszyn St. Melchior Grodziecki and canonization of Kosice martyrs. John Paul II said such words on 2 July 1995. This will be a brief part of the sermon. Let their example encourage them to give a courageous witness to Christ and his Gospel, without any compromise with the spirit of this world. And he did. In addition to three Koscite martyrs, many others, including other Christian denominations, had to endure torture and severe punishment. Some were even killed. Can we e.g. not acknowledge the spiritual size of 24 Evangelicals killed in Prešov? To them and to all who endured suffering and death to remain faithful to their beliefs and consciences, the Catholic Church commends and expresses its admiration. And then, outside the protocol, in the rainstorms, he paid tribute to the statue of 24 Protestants murdered in Prešov. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Our problem is that we have to make a decision. We've been making opinions so far. John Paul's words quoted here II... Well, we need to be aware that every sentence of this text needs to be deepened, rethinked. Of course, ecumenism and respect are close to all of us. However, the subject is difficult, the subject is delicate, although seemingly, it seems to be a simple matter. It is simple if we remain at the level of superficial analysis of this problem, at a certain level of generality. If we look at this text as such, I would say a stain that speaks of these things, then it will seem simple to us. But if we start going deeper into this issue, there's going to be a problem. I am from Cracow, and in Cracow and Tarnów there were very many inhabitants of the monastery. My father has told me many times about these good, normal relationships, so that I think it's not that we're somehow particularly sensitive about other religions. I have to say that I have a problem, because I don't know if I can properly express in words what I feel and what I want to express. Well, that's the kind of subject we don't often deal with. I must say that the main problem is that in the first paragraph of this text we write that the Senate wants to honor the movement. Right? Yet, as with the title itself, there is some resistance. I must say that I agree with many of these arguments and statements, although many of them were contradictory. In many of these speeches... There are different reasons for the same case, and even in ourselves these different reasons come to the fore. I think the opening of this difficult subject may also be due to the way of verbalizing all of this, namely the title and the first paragraph. Senator Ryszka has done a deeper analysis here, but the text of this speech was also brief. We know that each of these thoughts would require a longer seminar, but I think it's closest to what the professor, Senator Severinski, said to me. I think whatever to say, what happened 500 years ago, was the beginning of some significant disintegration. We know that at that time, and earlier, and later there were many outstanding thinkers, many prominent clergymen who had critical views, and yet tried to verbalize them in a different way. Well, that's where it came from, that the resolutions were written by Mr. Jackowski and Mr. Żaryn, so I felt a little touched, because sometimes I write resolutions, too. But that's not what I'm saying. I must say that for me it was a personal testimony of Senator Zarin, who shared a load of family experiences, but nevertheless showed a slightly different look, proposing a gentle shift of the accents contained mainly in the first paragraph. And I think what Senator Żaryn has offered is very close to me, although I do not know if after this discussion, which did not look like such an extensive debate... Maybe it'd be better to put it back in time because I'm afraid if we shut it down today... Well, there are amendments, some of which we like, but maybe in a few days someone will offer something even smarter. And I think in a situation like this, when... I must say that I am grateful that today's discussion takes place in an extraordinary atmosphere of mutual respect for the views and those who make them. And that's, I think, a certain value that we should be cultivating in some way. Even though I know the rules pretty well, I can't tell if there's a possible formal conclusion that would allow it to be postponed for a while, but I know that there have been such precedents and a marshal made such a decision by his own decision. For example, on a resolution called by some by a meteorological resolution. Then, too, there was a time delay. I think that this is the subject that we are kind to, on the one hand, but we also see some decks that are worrying about us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... [[Can I ad vocem to the senator's statement?]] Ad vocem? What do you mean, ad vocem? [[It's from the recipes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u191	Mr Marshal, I would like to ask that the third reading of this draft resolution be held at this Senate meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u192	Thank you. Senator Bear will now speak... [[Mr. Marshal, I would like to say that my motion was of such character...]] Informal. [[Well, it's formal, if that's possible. Here I address the people who hold the rules in their hands...]] If there's a motion, we'll announce a two-hour break... [[Voice from the room: What?]] ...a two-hour recess for the committee meeting. [[Two hours?]] [[A half-hour break...]] [[Because, Mr. Marshal, you can...]] The agreement with Marshal Karczewski is that we will announce a two-hour break. There's a deadline there, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u193	If the rules are too short, because that happens, I would like to express this as a request to your marshal, who under precedents And that's what's happened. He's got the power to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u194	Thank you very much. Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to draw attention to one thing that I think did not appear in this discussion, and I think it is very important. Well, 500 years ago, there was a breakup in the church. There's been something called reformation. I would like to point out that none of us present in this room had any influence on what happened 500 years ago, so saying today that we praise, worship this reformation, is something, well, as if on the bakier with logic. This happened, for 500 years Protestants and many of these Protestants have lived on Polish lands for Poland, as many times have been repeated here, they deserved very much. So if we don't want to notice today that something like this happened 500 years ago... Because we just notice that something like this happened, and that's how we do it as the House of bows to Protestants. Not to the church. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, identify the country's interests with the interests of any church. Because if I asked the question whether the formation of the Reformation was beneficial for Poland as a country or not... Well, the answer is also in this mentioned justification: Reformation brought Europe, and then to the whole world huge cultural and civilizational changes. [[And how many misfortunes... how many misfortunes... what are you talking about, man?]] And we can't just hide our heads in the sand and pretend it wasn't there. Because not taking a resolution like this would be like saying, let's put our head in the sand and pretend it wasn't. [[Thirty-year-old war was such a cultural success?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I think that we as senators, as Chamber, must first of all represent the interests of the Polish state, the interests of the country and the interests of our compatriots, regardless of what faith they profess and whether they are believers at all. 'Cause let's remember that there are non-believers in our country, too. I believe that the resolution that you presented to Senator Kopeć, which has also been revised in the Legislative Committee... Yesterday it was really quite carefully analysed, there were amendments made to the text and I think that this is a good text. Perhaps it's by the way My attitude as a Catholic to this proposed resolution is positive, because part of my family comes from Cieszyn, I come from Silesia, so we with Protestants live normally, cooperate, cooperate. And if today the Senate rejects the draft resolution, it will be as if we would say to these Protestants: we do not see you, we do not want to see you. Let us not identify the interests of the country with the interests of any church. Let's try to keep it that way so we can see this group of people and the anniversary of the 500th anniversary, really round. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[World War II has also brought many benefits...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My previous speakers, so to speak, declared their confession. I am neither a Catholic nor a Protestant, and therefore I will retain full objectivity in the assessment of this proposed resolution. [[Then who are you?]] An atheist, sir. First of all, I would like to refer to what Senator Prof. Seweryński was talking about, because his argument is always an in-depth argument. The senator asked us this question: why, in fact, should we adopt this resolution in a situation where it is not very clear whether it is that those who did good things did it because they were Protestants or vice versa? Indeed, this topic was raised in our committee, we had a discussion with Senator Czerwiński about this matter, so that we need to find an answer to this question. I believe that this answer is based on two main facts. Firstly, the anniversary of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation will be celebrated in Poland and in many countries around the world. The great body, which patronizes these celebrations, is made up of the Catholic hierarchs, the President of the Episcopate. Right? [[Primate.]] Excuse me? [[Primate of Poland.]] Primate, even better. The Primate of Poland is part of the... So we are simply dealing with an important event and therefore the Senate should refer to this event. That's one thing. Secondly, the Senate should refer to this event for one more reason. Well, I've been reading the polls lately, the patriotic research results are repeated every once in a while. And the attitude of Poles towards religion, etc. About 30% of Poles believe that only a Catholic can be a good Pole. I do not need to say here, in this Chamber, that this is a wrong view, and our resolution would give a clear signal that it does not have to be so that the Protestant can also be a good Pole. We don't deal with atheists, Jews and so on right now, that's not what this is about, but this important group on this anniversary is what we're talking about and we're signaling that... I understand that the first sentence of the resolution may be for Catholics, especially for those very attached to various aspects of faith, difficult to accept, because there is talk of honoring movement. Right? That's a problem. Senator Żaryn has proposed that this be changed to... a concept of people, Protestants. Well, it's some kind of variant, except, as it's been pointed out here, it would mean remodeling the entire draft resolution. I don't know if it could be simplified after all. My proposal is not to confuse too much with this resolution and, however, to accept it, and that the first paragraph, which aroused controversy and which reads: "In the year of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, wishes to honor the movement which co-shaped the religious, cultural and economic face of the West, including our Homeland... In the year of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation of the Senate of the Republic of Poland wants to honor those of our compatriots who, as Protestants, co-shaped the religious, cultural and economic face of our Homeland. So no words about the West, etc. Of course, we don't name names because you can't name them all. It's in the explanatory note. Whoever wants to read it. The signal would be that in the year of the Jubilee, there must be a reason why this is done. You honor not movement, because it arouses controversy, but people. However, it would be a matter of a maximum number of votes to adopt such a resolution. And that's the amendment I'm calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u198	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me inform you that the conclusions... [[You're still a senator.]] You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a way, I feel invited to the discussion by Mr. Marshal Borowski. The beginning of the discussion we have seen here took place at the meeting of the Legislative Commission. The result of the vote as it was then does not reflect the distribution of votes in the Chamber now, the votes we have heard here. They're very different. I would like to answer the questions that were asked by Marshal Borowski at that committee meeting because they were not fully answered. I would also like to argue why we should not adopt such a resolution at all. In fact, we are currently dealing with two draft resolutions: one draft this is the original text slightly modified by the committee, and the second is, practically speaking, a new text of the resolution proposed by senators Żaryna and Jackowski. First, a word about this original text. I abstained at the committee meeting, although I argued against this text. Senator Kopcia's speech today convinced me that I was right. This pulpit is no place for us to convert each other, Senator, and so I read your speech. We shouldn't interfere in this deep, I'd call it, decks and such intimate matters... It's not even about the senators anymore. Nor should we try to judge this on a national scale. We should not enter this sphere as politicians at all, as High House, because we will always offend someone. It's better not to talk about these things. Everyone keep it in their conscience. As for the second text of the draft resolution, he is indeed in some sense illogical. The argument of Senator Sewerinsky is simply obvious... [[And devastating.]] Yeah, kind of devastating. In my opinion, we should not distinguish between a certain category of our citizens, and the proposed text of this resolution in the latter wording is such a distinction. One might ask: what about other citizens who are not Protestants? Why aren't we talking about them? No anniversary is, in my opinion, an argument for... this, I would say, crown argument, which is given here, which is these 500 years of reformation, should also not be such an argument. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish Senate should speak above all about Polish anniversaries. The question is: why should we speak about the anniversary of an event that did not take place in Poland? It has an impact on the history of Poland, but just like the whole world history, because we are one of the nations of the world. Did we worship in this way e.g. The discovery of America? Did we worship other events that did not take place in Poland? This is not an event from the history of Poland. The outbreak of the Reformation, the division of churches is not an event from the history of Poland, and in my opinion that is why we should not discuss this event in this House... Yes, maybe we should discuss it, but we should not adopt resolutions on this matter. And that's why I'm going to vote against. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u200	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senators Żaryn, Jackowski, Pańczyk-Podziej and Borowski. The discussion is closed. Senator Piechota has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear a voice of objection, I will consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal. [[Is there an objection?]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Is there an objection? [[Voice from the room: There is an objection.]] Then we'll have to vote. [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej: What is the opposite of this conclusion?]] [[Tonight, if we're gonna be in the next meeting...]] Is the motion against it? [[Well, he was.]] [[I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. What's the conclusion?]] If I do not hear a voice of objection, I will consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I'm declaring a recess for an hour... [[Voice from the room: And the committee when it has...]] As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. I'm calling a two-hour recess until 8:30. [[By 8:30?]] And adverts.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u201	A joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to deal with the requests submitted at the Senate meeting to the Law amending the Law and certain other laws will take place immediately after the adjournment in room 182 has been announced. Then, in the same room, an hour after the announcement of the break, the Legislative Commission will examine the proposals submitted at the Senate meeting for a draft resolution on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u202	Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 32 to 20 minutes 31]] I'm extending the recess until 9:00 p.m. [[Voices from the room: No!]] [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 31 to 21 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm extending the recess to 21.15. [[Voice from the room: How many more times?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Bureau needs literally 15 minutes to prepare documents. Time-out to 9:15. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 00 to 21 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u204	I'm extending the recess until 9:45 p.m. [[Voices from the room: No!]] [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 15 to 21 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u205	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 402 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 60 were in favour, 11 against, 13 abstained. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks and certain other laws. We return to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 403 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 83 for, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Freedom of Business. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator's print No 405 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Freedom of Economic Activity. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 407 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the committee meeting, it was decided to accept one amendment, namely the deletion from the grounds for eavesdropping, those acts which involve disciplinary proceedings, namely Amendment 6. All other amendments were rejected and consequently the Act was adopted in full with this one amendment, marked with number 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Joint Committee, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal supported by a minority of the Joint Committees: point III (1).
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One amendment One minority request and it will be a balance. What's the minority's motion for? It is about what has been and is the subject of a great debate: how far are criminal sanctions to go? Moreover, the Minister, the State and we believe that there must indeed be a deterrent. This deterrent is already placed in the position: a minimum penalty of 5 years converted, as in the amendment, for 3 years. Then there's the discussion of whether fear of 10 years is effective, or 15 years effective, maybe 25... well, it's certainly effective when you delete such a man at all. But that's not true either. Ministers, like many of us, refer to American examples. It is in America that all deterrents and not only are used, including the death penalty. And what happened? Despite these severe sanctions, the number of murders and murders increased by 10% in relation to 2015 data. And it reaches an unlisted level. So fearing even with the death penalty is not so effective and obvious. And this comparison isn't right, because Madoff actually got 150 years, and it's not for taxes, it's for creating funds, and it's a completely different fraud, but sometimes you go out after 7 or 10 years, because the prison warden has that right... The point is, of course, not to go too far, as they say... I'm not gonna say it anymore, because that would be insulting... It's just... [[Voice from the room: Can you legalize?]] What? [[Voice from the room: Fraud.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] No. There are insulation penalties for murderers so they don't show up again so they don't kill anybody anymore. And punishments aimed at recovering property by various means, even by earning it by a prisoner. And this is not here, you do not give this man a chance not only to return to his environment, to his family, but also to atone for the state. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe, also on the basis of experience, that someone has been imprisoned for more than 10 years in a good prison In the sense of: teasing It is no longer a prisoner, it is a wreck which the Treasury must maintain, and it means high costs. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. And please accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u209	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees Point III (3) and (4).
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u210	Yes, sir. In the case of paragraph 3, the aim is to ensure that the rules resulting from the section of the general criminal code relating to the exceptional relaxation of the penalty are not broken and not to lead to obvious injustice of the judgment by giving that power, which is in §1, i.e. giving the prosecutor the power to submit an application which obliges the court to exceptionally mitigate the penalty when admitting and exposing the circumstances without compensating for the damage, whereas in §3 the court is only given the optional possibility of such exceptional relief. I believe that this is a clear contradiction and a storm is the legal order of part of the general criminal code. That's §3. [[Section 3.]] Amendment 3. Amendment 4 is an amendment that eliminates the possibilities introduced side by side By side, i.e. not referring to the substance of the submission, namely the possibility in many other cases, very often trivial, of obtaining wiretappings which have nothing to do with issues related precisely to VAT-depleting offences.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? In the course of the discussion, you submitted your conclusions to Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Alexander Pociej, Senator Piotr Zientarski, Senator Grażyna Sztark and Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. In addition, Senator Grażyna Sztark was rapporteur for the minority of the Legislative Commission and Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would very much ask all colleagues to support Amendment 6. This is Senator Silence's amendment and mine. She limits the ability to use wiretap in a situation where, in fact... what happened at the moment I'm talking about this proposal that came from the Sejm. It does not really concern, in a very large part, the substance of this law. So it's not really about VAT and it's not about VAT sealing, it's just it's about a lot of other events, not even crimes, it's about misdemeanors. The regulation in question cannot be the basis for eavesdropping on matters that really are of no importance in terms of the threat to the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u213	Thank you very much... [[Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u214	...I'll save time on that. I'll make a request like that... I am talking about the amendment tabled by the Senators Zientarski, Sztark and Cichonia: in art. 1 in point 4, in Article. 277c in §1 and 2 shall be deleted at the request of the prosecutor. I'll explain once again that it's about restricting the prosecution's primacy in principle. In our opinion, the court has absolutely the right to... [[Which amendment is that?]] This is Amendment 3. Absolutely the court has a decisive role here, not the D.A. And, Mr. Marshal, because it was a minority request, I would like to take this opportunity to pass on a proposal of a definite majority to put on the economic market here, in foyer, sandwiches, because we are going to survive these breaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u215	Now we are not going to vote on this proposal, Senator. Thank you very much. [[The Minister must have had a Kaiser for himself...]] The sandwiches have been thought of before, and it ended badly. I don't accept that sandwich proposal. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[That's not the thousand.]] We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law. Then, in the event of the rejection of this proposal, of a proposal to adopt a law without amendments. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We are voting on the motion for a minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 21 votes against, 61 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] In the face of the rejection of the proposal for rejection, we are voting on the proposal of the Legislative Commission and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions for the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 1 for, 85 against. [[Voting No 5]] In the face of the rejection of the proposal for rejection of the law and of the proposal for adoption of the law without amendments, we shall proceed to vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 aims to ease the strictest penalties laid down in the additional provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 26 for, 60 against. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 1 was rejected. Amendment 2 broadens the scope of the provision governing the type of qualified VAT fraud by tightening the liability of persons who acted within the organised criminal group. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 25 votes against, 60 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 2 was rejected. Amendment 3 introduces the possibility for the court to apply exceptional relief or withdrawal without a prosecutor's request. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 28 votes against, 57 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 4 will rule out voting on Amendments 5 and 6. Amendment 4 deletes the provisions amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, extending the catalogue of cases where bugs can be used. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 25 votes against, 59 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 5 deletes the provision which allows the use of eavesdropping in case of fear of committing a VAT fraud offence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 27 votes against, 58 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 6 excludes the right to use eavesdropping in cases of fear of criminal offences against the justice system which relate to offences or disciplinary offences. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 Senators voted, 85 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 57 votes against, 21 against and 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the establishment of the Western Cross. A report on the draft law was presented to the committee prior to the interruption and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print no. 393 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Jan Żaryn to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law on the establishment of the Western Cross and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Jan Żaryn to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 399 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Leszek Piechota, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to inform you that the committee at its meeting on 1 February of this year responded to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion. The Commission has supported the conclusions set out in paragraphs 1, 2, 6, 7 and 9 of the table of proposals and calls for them to be adopted by the Senate together with the single draft resolution contained in print No 399 S. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u217	I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Andrzej Biesiołek, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! A minority of committees requests the support of the proposal described in the press as proposal No 3. It is about the amendment of Senator Borowski, who changes the contents of the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u219	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Mr Gregory Czelej, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u220	Mr. Marshal, I ask you to accept Amendment 4, Senator Jackowski and Senator Żarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u221	Thank you. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were tabled by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, Senator Jan Żaryn, Senator Marek Borowski and Marshal Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej. Thank you. At present, senators may submit questions to rapporteurs and applicants for a maximum of one minute in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Rulewski. Then you can tell me who it is right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u222	All of them. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But not everyone has to answer. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] First of all, to those who have accepted their proposals. My question is this. I have the impression that this is a draft resolution that talks about believers who have no religion, who have no religion. That's the first one. And two: wouldn't this resolution be a resolution about agnostics? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u223	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to answer that question? [[Even I can't.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. Do any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators want... Some questions remain unanswered, Senator. Does anyone else want to ask a question? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the text. Print No 399 X. And then on the adoption of the draft "Print No 399 S' in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 1, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Jan Żaryn. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 64 votes against, 3 against and 15 abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 2, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Jan Żaryn. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 44 votes against, 27 against and 13 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] Let's move on to Amendment 4. Am I right? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 4... [[No. 3.]] [[Third.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this... [[Okay, okay, four.]] [[Four.]] That's right, four. Everyone agrees. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 4. And I will immediately say that the adoption of this amendment will rule out voting on Amendment 5. So we proceed with the vote on Amendment 4, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Jan Żaryn. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Now we give the results. 85 senators voted, 46 votes against, 27 against and 12 abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 6, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Jan Żaryn. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 43 votes against, 27 against and 16 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 7, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Jan Żaryn. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 66 votes, 3 against, 15 abstentions. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 7 was accepted. If we accept the amendment on which we will vote, we will not vote on Amendment 9. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 8, Marshal Maria Panczyk-Podziej. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 25 votes against, 47 against and 14 abstentions. [[Voting No 19]] Let's move on to Amendment 9. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 9, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Jan Żaryn. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 45 for, 26 against, 14 abstentions. [[Voting No 20]] We are now voting on the draft resolution in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 40 for, 24 against, 17 abstained. [[Voting No 21]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The first title, because Amendment 1 was accepted.]] The first title? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 500th anniversary of the presence of Protestants in Polish lands. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen... Oh, we're moving on. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would remind you that the next meeting will be held on 21 and 22 February this year. The order of this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let's wait a minute. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The statement is addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. Dear Minister, My senator's office is registered with people whose pensions according to the so-called. The debubbling law is to be reduced this year. However, the Act contains a provision whereby the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration may decide not to apply the provisions of the Act in certain cases. It's a rule in the following article. The text of 8a is: "Art. 8a. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1. The Minister responsible for Home Affairs may, by decision, in particularly justified cases, exclude the application of Article. 15c, Art. 22a and Article 22a 24a in respect of persons serving as referred to in Article. 13b, in view of: 1) short-term service before 31 July 1990 and 2) reliable performance of tasks and duties after 12 September 1989, in particular with risking health and life. Paragraph 1 is To the persons referred to in paragraph 1. 1. Article 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 15, Art. 22 and Article 22 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for I understand that those who wish to obtain a positive decision by the Minister must make a specific request. However, the Act does not specify the method of submission and the model of such an application. Therefore, I kindly ask you to answer the following questions. Firstly, can the persons concerned already submit applications and if not, since when will they be able to submit applications? Secondly, will a model proposal be drawn up and if so, how will it be published? Thirdly, at what time does the person who sent the application have the right to expect an answer? Fourthly, to whom should such a request be addressed personally? Fifthly, are there any other requirements for such a request? I'll be obliged to respond as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u225	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two statements. I am the first to address the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the Minister of Digitization. 1 February 2017 was the last day on which prepaid card users could register them with a mobile phone operator in our country. This obligation is based on strengthening the security of citizens and the state. But, as the public is informed, there are attempts to circumvent this obligation. I therefore ask you to inform me whether measures have been taken to prevent the use of anonymous prepaid cards from countries where there is no obligation to register such cards. Please also inform us if it is possible to monitor these cards, which are registered in one name and then sold online or for cash. The second statement is also addressed to two resorts, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. I ask you to inform whether the Polish authorities have information about the collections of priest Augustine Mednis in Łuck. He was a Catholic priest who came to Ukraine in the 1960's from Latvia. He had a beautiful pastoral record in years of persecution. In 1991 he was the dean in Khodorów, and after the creation of the diocese of Lukki, he was the general vicar of this diocese. He was very interested in Polish culture, spoke fluent Polish, knew the history and tradition of multicultural and multi-ethnic Republic. He gathered a valuable multilingual library, mainly in the field of art history, although in its collections it was included. The original Constitution on 3 May and a very interesting collection of liturgical robes from the 16th to 18th centuries. In 2003, Bishop Martian of the then Archdiocese had plans to create on the basis of these collections of museums. Father Augustine Mednis died in 2007 and according to my information, the fate of his collection remains unknown. I therefore request that information be provided in the present case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-01-senat-34-1.u227	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 22 minutes 18]]
