ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road. The text of the Act is contained in print No 421 and the committee report In print No 421 A. Please... [[Mr. Marshal!]] [[Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator Rulewski.]] In what mode? [[On the agenda.]] [[There's no more...]] No, but we've already established order, that's... [[Formal conclusion.]] Formal conclusion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you know, yesterday, during the vote on the order of the sitting, I made a motion, and Mr. Marshal rejected it because of the fact... Proposal to proceed at this meeting of the draft resolution with an appeal for the Government to put forward a position in support of Donald Tusk's candidacy. Mr Marshal rejected this request, and in his explanatory statement he stated that he could only be dealt with when the committee's report was made. He also told the public and the High House that he had passed this draft resolution to the committee for consideration, and that a few days ago, probably three days ago... [[No, no, no. Come on, Mr. Senator...]] I mean, two days ago... [[Mr. Senator! Mr. Senator!]] I'm sorry, but I'm done, Mr. Marshal... [[But I'm agitated, well... you can't say the truth.]] Turns out it wasn't true, Mr. Marshal didn't hand it over to two committees, and it's not just a mistake, it's a conscious act blocking the powers of us senators. [[Conclusion!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u3	Mr. Senator, there was no formal motion. Thank you very much. [[I'm asking you to vote again.]] [[Vote what?]] There's no such... [[But vote what out?]] Mr. Senator, come on, understand that we have regulations. If you submit an application, please refer to the relevant article. There's no committee report because it didn't get through. I, Senator... and please listen carefully and do not mislead the public. I said that I sent this request to two committees, and I directed it. And did it get to you or didn't it get to you... I directed it, just signed it and directed it. [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] I directed it, and when the committee takes care of it, I don't know. [[No, look at that.]] So, Mr. Senator, please don't enter... [[Don't make the Senate laugh that there's two days in the mail!]] I ask the Senator of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a report to the committee. Oh, and I'm gonna finish by saying that even if such a motion were voted out, and it was voted out according to your intention, we couldn't consider it, because there's no printing or anything... Well, senseless... [[Thank you.]] We can't vote on proposals that are, well, pointless. Thank you kindly. [[Thank you for the explanation, but it's hard to consider something that hasn't been passed on.]] Oh, well, it's a good thing you figured that out. That's what I've been talking about since yesterday. [[I finally get it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[All right, let's go!]] Great. Thank you so much for knowing what this is all about. Thank you very much. Senator Pekkis is the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u4	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The purpose of the Act is to lay down rules for monitoring the carriage of sensitive goods by road and to determine liability for infringements of obligations relating to such carriage. The joint committees were sitting with a large representation of external actors. In view of the fact that lobbying entities participated in the committee's deliberations, on the basis of Article. 63. 3 I would like to inform you that the meeting was attended by lobbying professionals and that the representatives of these entities did not take part in the discussion and made no proposals for amendments to the Act. Other entities, which were numerously represented, who took the floor and presented their conclusions, are the Polish Chamber of Liquid Fuels, ROWE Poland, Business Centre Club, the National Road Transport Employers' Association, the Confederation of Leviathan. The contested law is an attempt to address the problem of inappropriate, reprehensible practices, fraud of the State in respect of taxes due, in particular VAT and excise duties. In the course of the discussion, some shortcomings have been revealed by the legal services of the Senate, the legislators, which have been partially, with the agreement of the Minister present, covered by the amendments tabled. The amendments were taken into account: 11 senators voted in favour, 5 against, 1 abstention. The joint committees recommend that you adopt the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u6	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, two short questions. At the committee's meeting, we submitted a proposal to postpone the session, because it was to be held earlier. The state, as senators, did not agree, considering that the matter was urgent and important enough that it could not be done. Mostly you were the author of this opposition, and he said no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What's the matter? Did you decide whether or not you received the request? But you've postponed this session to this day? That's the first question. And the other. Could you tell the senator what the opinions of these organizations, the representatives of these organizations, were? Because you've flown so nicely over their speeches. Would you mind telling me a little bit about these speeches? What kind of character were they? Have the organizations praised this fantastic solution? What did they think? [[The thief won't praise you.]] What was the main object of their praise or criticism? If we could just have a few words about this, Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u7	I'm answering the first question. Well, the deadline was changed after the committee's deliberations. This was not the subject of the committee's work. I'm answering question two. Opinions that were presented in quite a long time... Do you want me to fill in the minutes, or... I don't really understand if... You took part in this meeting and, therefore, the opinions differed. They usually started with this, you could say, common denominator, that basically none of the representation And that's what I've been paying attention to. It did not deny that these changes were expected to meet their long-term practices and confirmed their finding that there were irregularities and that these changes were expected. However, various proposals were presented in terms of detailed solutions and their differences depended on which party proposed them. Other were proposals from the fuel chambers, others were proposals from the representative of the National Road Transport Employers' Association. This representative of the National Road Transport Employers' Association, as I recall I can say that with a lot of honesty and honesty. Twenty-seven minutes, so I think it would be a mistake to try to summarize it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u8	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u9	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, one sentence. [[It's in the discussion.]] [[Please.]] Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Senator, but I'll give you a few elements of these speeches. I didn't want you to read it from the report, but in the discussion, I would like to mention it to you, because I see that we were at two different committee meetings. But thank you very much. [[I mean, I have...]] But...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u10	But, gentlemen, here's the question: the answer, the question, the answer. The debate will be on in a minute. I didn't open the debate. Senator Andrzej Biesiołek and then Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. [[I can't turn on the microphone, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voices from the room: Card, card, insert.]] Maybe we should reschedule. [[It's okay.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u11	Mr. Senator, I happen to be a member of the same committee that you are a member of, and I have participated in the entire deliberations of this committee. I get the feeling we've heard things. I mean, to be honest, I haven't heard one flattering opinion from any of the entities you've been talking about. I would like to ask you whether you will confirm the fact that one of the representatives said that the introduction of this law will cause most transport companies to disappear in the late summer or early autumn and the analysis of the operation of this law will be a section of the bodies of these entities. [[But professional.]] Yeah, yeah, professional. [[Voice from the hall: So it was said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u12	We can, if that's the will, open protocol and compare our observations... [[No...]] If you... wait a minute, I'm gonna... [[No, there's nothing to talk about.]] But I'm sorry, can I talk? [[The Senator has the floor. You're welcome.]] Thank you. I have some opportunity to present to you, as I understand it, a short, limited period of time, what was happening at the committee meeting. If that's the will to open protocol... The same gentleman who said that this proposal from the government, this proposal from the Ministry, meets their expectations, and then, in his long speech, he said what the senator was talking about. It's true. The same gentleman, representing specifically... It was the president of the National Road Transport Employers' Association. Yeah, that's right. Maybe his speech was a little too open and too long, but we wanted to. This is my impression of listening to each of these representatives. But the very same gentleman said at first what I was talking about earlier. If the senator's impression is that it's not true, if there's a suspicion that I'm not telling the truth, we can verify it by reviewing the protocol.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u14	Senator rapporteur, could you tell me which of these organizations were behind this bill and which were against this bill? That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u15	During the committee meeting, there was no vote that would reveal that the organisation was in favour or against. [[Mr. Senator Dobkowski...]] [[But I'm sorry, did they speak?]] [[Not all of them.]] Not all representatives of the organisations who were present at the committee's meeting took the floor, some asked and did not express their own opinions. [[Mr. Senator Dobkowski...]] 'Cause, you know, like... The lobbyists, Mr. Marshal, didn't speak at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u16	Mr. Senator Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, was it considered to replace this bill with the introduction of reversed VAT? [[It was.]] Were there any such suggestions?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u18	There were also proposals. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u19	Any more questions? You're welcome, Senator... Senator... Very... [[Władysław Komarnicki.]] I know a name, a name... Mr Władysław Komarnicki, Senator. You're welcome. [[You don't know Władysław?]] Excuse me? No, no...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Yes, Wladyslaw. [[Komarnicki, yes.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[There you go.]] I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Why was there a complete omission at the level of government work in the public consultation phase? That's the first question. Second question. Are there any expected compensation... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...for more than 100,000 operators... [[May I ask you to repeat the beginning of the second question?]] Is there any compensation envisaged for more than 100 000 operators, i.e. suppliers, customers, especially I particularly stress that, Mr. Senator, the carriers, the transport companies and the drivers? These companies already operate in a very competitive, difficult European market and will be subject to additional costs, Senator rapporteur, after the introduction of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u21	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u22	I answer the first question: this was not the subject of the committee's work. I answer the second question: no, there are no anticipated compensations. I don't know why Mr. Senator claims they're in very bad shape. My knowledge is that the pace of development of these companies since the 1990s is constantly growing... that their economic potential continues to grow, that their hardware base is constantly growing. So I don't know why you're saying they're in a bad situation or working on the edge... [[Was he at the committee meeting?]] If that were the case, their potential would not be increased. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, if you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u23	Here you go, question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u24	I have another question. I don't agree with this claim about potential because I'm not saying... [[But, Senator, the time for debate is when I...]] Then I have a question. I have another question. [[That's right, the question. I'm asking you a question. We're not commenting right now. This debate is a good time to comment.]] Okay, good. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Next question. Why does the Act impose financial penalties on a driver who is often unaware of what he is carrying and is to be liable under the threat of a fine of PLN 5.75 thousand. Such responsibility should be borne, Mr. Senator, by ordering the carriage or the consignee, but never by the driver. And I'll ask you another question, if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome.]] Why does this law have such a short deadline for entry into force? This will cause chaos because the transport industry will not have time to prepare for change properly. And one last question, Mr. Marshal. If a transport register is established, each transport It doesn't matter whether it's a few miles or thousands of miles. You will need to report to the office and apply for a registration document. Only with this document will the driver be able to move on. How soon will the carrier be able to get such a permit? This is the result of a consultation with seven large transport companies. I've conducted this consultation in my district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u26	I'll answer these questions one at a time. As for the first question, this was not the subject of the committee's work. The second question was asked at the committee meeting, but none of the senators had tabled an appropriate amendment and the committee had therefore not expressed an overall opinion on this subject. As for the third question, I think... Besides, the Minister is here, who was also at the committee meeting. With all due respect, this question was not the subject of the committee's work. This is a question about the contents of the bill. I understand that the senator has had some meetings in the meantime, but I am responsible for presenting the committee's position and the opinion of the case on what happened at the committee meeting. And the senator knows that. There's a minister here who's about to answer all these kind of substantive questions, and I think he's gonna do it right. Mr. Marshal, I kindly ask you to relieve me of this kind of question. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u27	Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u28	Mr. Senator, I have tabled amendments and we have voted on them. I also put forward a proposal on how this law should be dealt with, you can say, a massive criticism of its effects. It's not about criticizing her purpose. I agree with you because no one questioned it. But the consequences of this law. I suggested we interrupt the committee's deliberations. Unfortunately, this proposal did not pass, but I was hoping that we were giving ourselves time to consider this bill until the next Senate meeting. Do you know anything about this time being used to improve this bill? That's my first question. And the second question is that I actually tabled an amendment extending the vacathio legis to give companies a chance to adapt to this new system. Because you said here that there wasn't... [[...correction.]] There have been adjustments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u29	Mr. Senator, as a matter of fact, you have requested a change in the time limit for this bill. [[And there was an amendment to the vacathio legis.]] I was also requested to reject the law in its entirety. [[Yeah.]] This was the subject of the committee's deliberations, and as far as what was going on after the committee's meeting is concerned, in fact my report does not cover it. But I'll tell you, because it's not common knowledge that yesterday, until late evening hours, there were concrete arrangements that would probably make it stick. I'm just telling you a little bit of the facts. The amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u30	Mr. Marshal, the last question I'm going to ask is... [[There you go.]] ...the numbers that were raining there. Of course, other numbers fell from the social partners and others from the ministry. Can you tell the High House how many times a day I repeat: a day and how many times a year will there be reports of traffic registrations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u31	There were given numbers and these numbers oscillated... According to my memory, And that was some time ago, when we were talking about 40,000 a day. This is the number of electronic, systemically reported transport applications. And now that the senator wants concrete, maybe I'll fill in the numbers, because that's very important. This bill will not generate additional new jobs. In other words, 1 000 500 people will be appointed to serve this law from among those already in office.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u32	Thank you very much. [[Senator Kazimierz Klein.]] Excuse me? [[Kazimierz Klein.]] Senator Kazimierz Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u33	Mr Marshal, Senator rapporteur, you said that there would be no new jobs or new administrative responsibilities on the side of the administration. But will this bill have the same effect on business? This means that there will also be no need for additional employment, i.e. raising the costs of operating companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u34	One of the organizations raised such a request, except that it did not show how to calculate it, but said that it would increase costs. But it was a statement not supported by numbers or calculations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u35	Thank you. Senator Andrzej Bear. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u36	Mr. Senator, maybe this slipped my mind at the committee meeting... Was it advisable in the case of 1,500 jobs, where will these people come from? As I recall, it was said that these would not be additional jobs, only existing jobs. Existing where? What kind of jobs are these gonna be? Where will these people be transferred to these activities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u37	Mr. Senator, I'm looking at the watch. It's March 3rd. We've had the National Tax Administration for two days. In the case of mergers, there is usually a reduction in the number of persons serving the administration of these offices. I'm just guessing. 'Cause it wasn't on the committee. That gives you some possibilities to optimize your service.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u39	Mr. Senator, what is this non-generation of costs? If, as part of the introduction of another law, the cost is eliminated, let's say, 1 000 500 jobs are reduced... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, keep your voice down!]] ...employment... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]] ...then what is the advantage of this bill is that it employs 1,000 500 people?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u40	Thank you very much. [[Where's the profit?]] [[Profit for the state...]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator, 'cause we're gonna have to sort this place out a little bit. Who else wants to ask the senator a question? Nobody. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u41	The purpose of this law is to amend the areas where the greatest tax irregularities are found, in particular as regards fraud, non-payment of taxes on goods and services and reductions in excise duties. Senator, last year additionally, in addition to what was planned, the Polish state gained PLN 11.5 billion from goods, services and activities. This is the amount which, in addition to the plan, the Polish State obtained just from the so-called. VAT seals and excise duties. So if you're asking where the savings will be, then there'll be savings here in further sealing the system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u42	Thank you. You're still Senator George Wright. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u43	But we don't understand each other because I'm asking about the savings from the traffic monitoring bill, not the KAS. Because you said this bill wouldn't generate costs, and she would generate costs because 1,000 500 people would be employed to handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u45	This is a law not so much about traffic monitoring as about monitoring the carriage of goods by road. Yes? That's what we're talking about. About monitoring the carriage of goods by road. Yeah, except every time, every time we do business, we have a list: we have some expenses and we have some profits. And here's the difference, because it's either worth it for you to introduce the rule of law and order, or the state doesn't want to do it. This is what the country wants to do. It is a country that wants to introduce a certain order, a certain order, a certain system, so that citizens feel that they pay taxes not without meaning, but because it makes some concrete sense. And that's what it's done for.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u46	Thank you. There are no more applicants for the question. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Leszek Skiba is present. Hello. Do you wish to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. As I see that there are questions, I ask the Minister to take the floor. Senator Władysław Komarnicki, please, and then Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I need to ask you something. I'm after consulting the transport companies. I knew you'd be with us today, and hence my questions for you. Minister, why has there been a complete omission at the level of the government's public consultation stage? That's the first question. Second question. Are there any compensation foreseen for more than 100 000 operators, namely suppliers and customers, in particular carriers, transport companies and drivers? These companies already operating on a very competitive, difficult European market after the introduction of this law will be subject to additional costs. Third question. Why does the bill impose financial penalties on the driver? He is often unaware of what he is carrying, and is to be responsible for this under the threat of a fine of PLN 5.75 thousand. The responsibility should be borne by the ordering carrier or consignee, never, Minister, the driver. My fourth question. Why does this law have such a short time limit for entry into force? This will cause chaos and the transport industry will not have time to properly prepare for change. And one last question. There will be a transport register. Every transport, whether within a few kilometers or several thousand kilometers, will have to report to the office and apply for a registration document. Only with this document will the driver be able to move on. How soon will the carrier be able to get such a permit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u48	Thank you very much. Because there were a lot of questions, I'm asking for answers right away, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, such questions also arose during discussions in the Seym. The discussion at the Senate meeting was also fruitful. I'll start over. Firstly, the public consultation took place. There's been a lot of meetings with the industry. This bill at the stage... Let me remind you that this is a government project that went through all the stages of the consultation one by one. So that the project was transferred to social organisations, it was also consulted with other ministries. There were meetings, there were many meetings with organizations. During the session of the Senate Committee, this element was stressed. Part of the organization was talking about the fact that this project had changed, i.e. those transport organisations, the organisations that deal with excise goods, knew the project, which was indeed wider at the beginning, although of course it covered the scope which is now. An important change is the removal of the obligation to have transmitters, so-called. GPS. It is difficult to conclude that these consultations did not take place because the project in this version had already been known before. The fact that the organisations paid attention to the broader nature of this law earlier and to the removal from the provisions of the obligation to have transmitters is proof that the organisations knew this project from a previous version, still from the second half of 2016, or actually from the end of 2016. As far as compensation for companies is concerned, it will be such a real compensation that an effective law will lead to a reduction in the grey area of illegal goods transport, i.e. an increase in the volume of goods sold by excise goods, fuel and other excise goods, for which a transport obligation is required, as well as an increase in the scale of the services of transport companies which... This will be the most important and really crucial compensation. Because no compensation from the state would ever match... Because, in fact, the demand for their transport services, for the sale of fuel, as sales, sales, refineries say... So we are faced with increased demand from consumers, because the grey zone is indeed really and strongly limited in Poland. And that's the real competition. There are also more customers because these customers move from the gray zone to legal companies, including transport companies. As for the third question, the driver's sanctions, the driver is not punished for not knowing what he's carrying. The driver may be punished in this dimension, which is between 5,000 and 7.5,000, only for the absence of a notification number. I repeat, for lack of a call number. And that's the only sanction. So, actually, today is also... As we are dealing with drivers who do not have an international licence, a financial penalty is also imposed. Yes? There's a full analogy here. So we actually have a licensed international transport, which means that the driver has a duty, he should have the right licenses. And there's a penalty for... There's a complete analogy to these solutions. The fourth question is a short date for entry into force... Let me remind you that the bill will enter into force 14 days after the announcement. The public consultation has been ongoing at least since November, which is what we're really dealing with... In December, more detailed data were presented on the IT standards allowing for the automation of the notification made by these companies, which will have a lot of applications. The companies will want to automate the shipping reports of their goods so that they don't do it manually. Although it only takes three minutes to do it manually, the point is to automate it. In any case, IT data, so-called. The API was presented in December. Transport companies, including companies that will register, report goods, have since December information about the IT standard to automate it. As for the fifth question about the transport register, could the senator recall... [[It was a question of reporting to the office and how long it's been...]] As long as it lasts... the recording system works, based on an existing system, so-called. PUSC, which includes e.g. notification of the transport of excise goods. This system works The procedure takes if not minutes, then hours And automatically records... This allows the applicant to receive an electronic notification number efficiently. The system is prepared to increase... The level of use of the PUESC system will be increased as the number of goods covered by the notification will increase. The Ministry of Finance is prepared to actually increase the number of applications for the PUSC system. The IT services have prepared this system, the functioning of this system is relatively efficient, i.e. we do not have the experience to make it difficult to get a notification number quickly enough in a few minutes. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u50	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Minister. The question is Senator Kazimierz Klein, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u51	Mrs Marshal, Minister, the rapporteur, Senator Pekkis, said that last year, thanks to the measures sealing the tax system, the revenue to the state budget for VAT and excise duties increased by PLN 50 billion. [[Eleven and a half.]] [[Voices from the room: Eleven.]] How much? [[Eleven and a half.]] Oh, eleven, okay, that's good. I didn't hear that. [[You heard wrong.]] In that case, going back to the bill... Minister, what new obligations will appear on the part of entrepreneurs and recipients of sensitive products, e.g. fuel oil? As a rule, the customer of fuel oil is a customer who buys about 1 thousand l at a time. Will he also have additional administrative responsibilities, apart from those he has so far, i.e. the transmission of that information to the supplier? Has it been estimated that the cost of handling this system will increase on the part of entrepreneurs? Has this element also been analyzed during the design of this law? And the fourth problem, actually the third one, because the first one has already been explained, is the increase in administration, or actually the increase in administrative tasks. Senator Pekkis said that an increase in the number of tasks requires 1,000 500 officials. Is this really the case in the explanatory memorandum of this law? I would like to know whether the service of this law actually requires employment, the work of 1 000 500 civil servants on a national scale, in the light of the fact that it will be people who have ceased to carry out their duties in the areas to date in connection with the reform of the tax administration, or whether it would be the newly employed workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u52	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u53	Mrs Marshal, Minister, if I may, I would refer to the discussion that was held during the committee meeting. There were questions about the situation: what will happen if the system does not work for some reason? You said the Minister that the hour... If someone is waiting with a tanker, then of course nothing happens, but if someone is waiting to drive 500 l to a crash, it's important to him. There were voices. Do you have an alternative, especially for small-scale transport to individual customers? When it comes to the big one, I understand that you have to wait, there's a lot, 20,000 l, okay. But when it comes to licensing, you have to have a system prepared. Do you have a system like this? That's one thing. Secondly, there were questions about the regulation and the Minister replied that they were probably in preparation. Has anything changed? At what stage is the preparation of regulations? I'm asking because it's important. The bill's about to enter into force. What's the stage? And the third question. Minister, we are talking here about transport, among others. excise products, road transport. And if there is a transport of alcohol and tobacco I'm not talking about the transport of diesel, but I'm particularly talking about the first two products I've mentioned. By air, will it be internal air transport, will it be subject to the same procedures? One last question, Minister, about what Senator Pekkis said, I'm talking about 11.5 billion VAT income. Does the increase by 11.5 billion in VAT income for 2016 mean the amount of VAT increase in general, or is that the amount of VAT income increase resulting only from sealing? Is this the total increase in VAT income in 2016?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u54	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u55	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start by asking about the officials. Indeed, the intention of the head of the National Tax Administration, Minister Banas, is to make the most of those already working in the tax administration structures, the Customs Service, and now, from 1 March, the National Tax Administration. The Act does not provide for any increase in employment, the Act does not involve any increase in employment. The task of the administration, the National Tax Administration, is to implement it as effectively as possible, and best to implement it in such a way as to move 1 000 500 people from the field of other tasks to the area of performance of key tasks for monitoring goods, limiting the grey zone, limiting the illegal carriage of excise goods and those other tasks that will be included in the regulation. The point is to keep these 1 000 500 people up to date monitoring the carriage of goods. This is precisely the increased activity of existing employment, without increasing employment. This is important information. These 1,500 people are not, once again, newly recruited people, they are mostly customs officers who are already on the roads today, who today... And the target plan is that on roads and in other areas related to the implementation of this law, these tasks should be carried out as if by 1 000 500 people rotationally. Why is this important? I will allow you to provide more general information so that you can understand the context of this entire bill before we go to specific questions. Please note the standard problem of the grey zone. As regards the VAT gap, the illegal carriage of goods, the non-payment of excise duty, the problem is that in part for goods that are transported to Poland, the situation is that these goods are not reported, we have no information about it in any documents, because this trade most often takes place without invoices, very often without invoices, the goods are illegally transported to Poland. It seems that formally we have information that the tanker is going from Germany to Lithuania or there is an intra-Community acquisition which is not reported, i.e. imports. fuel from Germany to Poland. On the German side there are some traces in documentation, on the Polish side they often do not appear. So we're dealing with a situation where, in fact, the only sign of criminal activity is that it's just a commodity... that the truck is going. And that is indeed an important problem, that often there is no sign of this operation in documentation, in invoices or in transfers. So the tax authorities are unable to respond to this problem. Of course, there are also such crimes which involve VAT fraud, it is about tax carousels, although this is less often used for these goods, it is more often used for goods related to electronics. And that's the fact that invoices are being produced. And the goods most often don't exist. In order to extort VAT. But it is worth saying that these are two different sources of VAT gap The one which consists in transporting goods without documentation and the one which consists in creating documents without goods. The purpose of this law is to address this problem concerning goods which are transported illegally... The point is how to solve this problem. Examples of countries such as Hungary and Portugal are slowly entering this process as well Austria shows to monitor and control the transfer of sensitive goods to the territory of the country. We have a certain number of people who can devote themselves to this task, and the tax administration can, let's say, devote these people to these tasks. And it is crucial that these 1 000 500 people as many fuel tanks and excise goods as possible covered by this Act check to make the best use of man-hours. For this reason, the Act requires the registration of the carriage of goods. It will look like that in a situation where a truck is stopped, a tanker controlling it will be able to determine if it is dealing with someone who is honest, because there is a report, the driver has a registration number, it is checked out what is in the application number. If it's given what this stuff is, it's given its mass, it's all right, then after 5 minutes the truck goes on. And you can stop another truck. Today, under current conditions, there is no such law. Therefore, each time you have to devote much more time to determining what the company is or what it is. The driver shows his transport documents, we need to verify whether these documents are true or not. In fact, the key to this law is to say... I mean, the solution contained in this law is to do such an operation that we actually impose certain registration obligations on companies carrying, in the working hours of these 1 000 500 people as many trucks as possible. effectively check. The idea is to check as many trucks as possible to make sure that every truck that enters Poland from the territory of Germany, Slovakia, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, as well as from the eastern border, although there is a slightly more difficult system, but we cannot overlook the eastern border... The point is that every truck driver knows that there is a high risk that he will be stopped and checked, so that there is a risk in Poland Well, from the criminal's point of view, of course. It's a mistake. In fact, that is the basic purpose of this law. However, we impose these obligations in such a way that as short as possible the control of legal companies, because electronically we are able to determine everything in 5 minutes. And now I'm gonna answer these questions one at a time. Of course, 11.5 billion is the sum of excise and VAT revenue. As regards the new notification obligations for persons trading in fuel oil, there is, of course, an obligation to notify transport at a volume of 1 000 l. What is the estimated cost for entrepreneurs? Well, it all depends on the company and how many calls it has. System tests lead to the conclusion that in fact one application in the form of manual data entry into the electronic system takes about 3 minutes. Automation in large companies will, of course, lead to this becoming a standard for functioning information systems. Well, it's hard to deny that these are actually extra responsibilities. If you have to spend 3 minutes on each application, because this is how long it takes to fill out the form on the PUESC website, it is obviously some cost, but on the other hand it is worth to weigh the benefits, i.e. the reduction of the grey zone, the increase in revenues of companies that sell fuel legally, and the increase in demand for transport services provided by companies that legally carry fuel in Poland. In fact, per balance this law will improve the competition of legally operating companies, which are often in a difficult situation because they compete with companies that do not pay taxes and therefore have a competitive advantage. The benefits seem to prevail: greater demand, greater competitiveness of legally operating companies and, of course, fiscal impact, which is higher budget revenue. The next question, Senator Czarnobaj's question, was what happens when the system doesn't work. It's in the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 It shall be stated that, in the event of the absence of a register, the consignor, the receiving entity or the carrier, as far as its jurisdiction is concerned, shall send to the designated body of the National Tax Administration a document replacing the application containing the data referred to in Article. The notification data, hereinafter referred to as the document replacing the application, and is confirmed by the competent authority of the National Tax Administration. So there's an alternative. If the electronic system doesn't work, we have an alternative opportunity to submit a paper report. As far as regulations are concerned, two of them have already been sent for inter-ministerial consultations. As regards the regulation, which concerns the obligation to notify other goods, e.g. The issue of rape oil is often a recurring issue. This internal consultation at the Ministry of Finance is already being completed, and most likely next week, at the beginning of next week, it will go to inter-ministerial consultations. And rape oil is included in this project. In fact, what is important is the possibility of completing this list of goods by means of a regulation, but this really must be presented fairly in the form of analysis and justification. Therefore, the time devoted to the work on this draft law, which has been taking place in the Senate for two weeks, is used to provide a really good justification. Because there's no doubt about rape oil. The scale of these problems is large, but at the same time it is worth remembering that it meets with some kind of discussion about character... And here there is no doubt that this problem, the major problem of tax fraud and irregularities, is a strong basis for the return of rapeseed oil to the list under this regulation. As far as air transport is concerned, it is not subject to notification. The bill only talks about the transport of goods that... It's just about transport. And this is... I think Senator Czarnobaj had another fourth question after that about air transport, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u56	Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator... You've already had your answer, haven't you? [[Yes.]] Good. Would you like to ask? [[Yes.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u57	Minister, I also asked about responsibilities on the part of recipients, e.g. as regards fuel oil or municipal gas supplied by road. Will these obligations on the part of the recipients also occur here or not? Doesn't anything change around here? Oh, and one more question, by the way. Because those officials who will serve the programme will be mainly those of the customs services to date. Right? Does this mean that there will have to be some relocation of these officials from different places in Poland? Will they operate mostly on the border, near the borders? Well, as a matter of fact, customs offices have not been evenly distributed throughout Poland so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u58	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u59	As far as the first question is concerned, I answer: the recipient must confirm the delivery upon receipt of the delivery. That's the responsibility for the recipient. And as for the customs services that operate within the National Tax Administration... Well, it's also a certain practice currently adopted, which seems to work effectively. So, of course, customs offices are spread all over Poland, but goods control actions are generally located close to the border, so as to monitor in fact the transport of goods from... I am referring to the acquisition of an intra-Community. This is the most important source of crime. And really, nothing's gonna change in this case. So that those who operate the PUESC electronic system, the notification mechanism, will work where they worked before 1 March, before the implementation of the KAS and also before the Act in question entered into force. And those who control today will get additional powers, but in fact their primary task, namely to control tanks, to transport excise goods and those covered by the regulation... That's what they're gonna do in general here... where it works. Because the benefits of the action so far allow us to say that properly these tasks are carried out correctly, and what needs to be done is actually better use the resources of these people.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u60	Now, ladies and gentlemen, more people. You can sign up for a question after the senators who have already volunteered. Senator Andrzej Bear, please. And then Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u61	Minister, I'd like to ask you about these 1 000 500 people... 'Cause if these are the people I understand, they're Customs. Yes? Yeah, so these customs guys are working. Now these people are going to be separated from these customs services in some way? Will they be equipped with any additional resources? Well, because it's hard to imagine that they're gonna be doing this job from behind a desk. They're gonna have to have some, I don't know, vehicles, some equipment to test what the tanker's carrying. Is it gonna be something new, or is it gonna be something that's already there? 'Cause if it's gonna be something that's already there, then... so to speak, we mix it in a glass, but from mixing tea it doesn't get any sweeter. And the second question: did the Ministry estimate the additional costs for entrepreneurs, i.e. how much more will the entrepreneur have to invest in the operation of this system? Well, because business representatives at the committee meeting claimed that these costs would be, and high. High enough to make such statements. As a result of the act under consideration here, this segment of the transport market can suffer very serious losses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u62	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u63	Minister, when you talk about the purpose of this law and its scope, you mention a few countries that monitor intra-national transport. And the ones that are just getting started in this area. And when you talk about possible achievements, you only talk about cross-border transport. And that was the main controversy at the committee meeting. . that the measures related to this law are inadequate to the objective that could be achieved by monitoring only cross-border transport. I would ask the Minister to take this into account. What domestic fuel producers produce is simple to monitor without this law, what we know well, and what they are trading comes from, according to my knowledge, but coming from interested companies. Only from abroad. And that's what we need to seal. In this part, this law never raised any objections. All the comments we are talking about here are really about the desire to control all movements of liquid excise goods. The lubricants are also an option here. In the territory of the country. Why are you doing this when you can use tools to monitor what will flow from Płock, what will flow from Gdansk? These are our state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the Minister to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u65	I'll start with the last question. In Europe, there are two patterns of control of goods. And so on. The Hungarian model relates only to internal transport of goods. Portuguese model And internal, and external. And that's an essential choice, because the problem... I understand this strong argument. After all, there are such experiences The fact that cross-border transport is much more risky, but the fundamental problem is legal and concerns whether we can impose obligations under European Union legislation... It is about exposure to the risk of cross-border trade being treated differently from internal trade. And that's the main problem. I generally understand a position that... One could say this: we use a certain preference for internal trade, and in some sense, as I say, we discriminate against cross-border trade because we impose additional obligations there. There is a belief that, despite the strong right behind this point of view, the European Commission could find such a draft law incompatible with the principle of the free market. The justification may be that such a model does not work in Hungary or Portugal. The Hungarians are trying to limit the gray area inside the country, which is why they didn't decide to... a little bit different is the purpose of this bill. There is that the EKAER system is designed to reduce the gray area and is aimed at retail sales. Online system where fiscal cash registers have a connection to servers of the Hungarian Ministry of Finance... The point is to be convinced that there is no sale without a receipt. In order to be able to check whether retail trade does not happen so that a commodity is sold without a receipt, the retail control system has been supplemented with an internal sales control system. There are many goods involved in retail sales, and therefore this objective is slightly different. [[There's another ceiling, Minister.]] Yeah, okay. In this respect, this bill is intended to introduce obligations... It is addressed, so to speak, aimed precisely at the problem of transporting goods from abroad. But, of course, there is also a problem in Poland of selling fuels without invoices to some petrol stations, selling out of control, and it is like the second element. I mean, we're aware that it's more crucial to locate and limit the gray area, which is precisely that goods come from abroad. Unfortunately, the legal problems I was talking about with the European Commission, with its doubts As for equal treatment of entities... It is these doubts that have led to such a shape that we have both cross-border and internal monitoring. As far as the 1,500 people are concerned, the question of 1 thousand 500 people was asked by Senator Bear It's just that they're people... These tasks are already being carried out today. And these tasks will be carried out by an increased number of people, reaching just 1,000 500 people. And it's not like we're dealing with some really new situation. In fact, excise goods are already being controlled today and this results in increased excise and VAT revenues. Therefore, it is not that it is mixing, so to speak, with a spoon in tea, because this bill is supposed to make those people who control today have better efficiency. I mean, this bill is supposed to make this more efficient... It is about shorter inspection time, faster information that there is a declaration, and focusing primarily on those tanks that carry unregistered goods, on the analysis of inter-stock transport data. It's supposed to make those 1,500 people actually do the job... that those people who already control... I would like to point out here that from the data I have concerning the total control in Operation.Contras between 10 January 2017 and 1 March 2017, it appears that a total of 25 000 879 controls have been carried out, i.e. almost 26 000 controls. So the purpose of this law is to make at the same time Here it was all February and two decades of January, more inspections were carried out and more tanks were checked. As a result, there is such a belief that each... There's a high risk, almost 100%. that the truck that enters Poland will be checked for at least once, therefore this risk is serious. And these 1,500 people will do it more effectively. As a result, the number of people who will attempt to enter Poland in an illegal manner will decrease and will try to transport illegal fuel. The additional costs for enterprises, let me put it straight. They are not estimated in this draft law. However, I would like to remind you here that these additional costs are offset by the benefits of reducing the grey zone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u67	Mrs Marshal, Minister, about this previous round of questions I may have missed the interpretation of the Minister in terms of 11.5 billion VAT income. Could I ask you, as the Ministry, to make such a calculation in writing? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Yes.]] Let's say that such estimates: the VAT revenue for 2016 has increased by this much, and that's that, including the sealing, is that much, and that's that. from increased consumption. But, Minister, I'm going back to what I asked you. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 the notification and the receipt of the reference number. The Minister here said... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 It is mentioned that if the register is not available, there is a procedure and the entity receives confirmation and acceptance from the competent national authority of the administration. My question is, let's say, technical. Tank wants to move, launch procedure, and the system doesn't work. What we're doing is we're running this article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5, we're sending a report to the institution we're reporting to, which is the tax administration, and we're waiting for confirmation? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Yes.]] That's all I wanted to know. How long is this gonna take? I'm not talking about the electronic system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u68	Okay, thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Well, that's all...]] Wait, wait, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Sorry.]] Thank you very much, that's all the questions. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I was very clear about VAT and excise. I don't know why you're skipping excise duty, because that's a very important piece of information then it's a very different number. I don't know why you're permanently... You've done it for the fourth time. I was clearly talking about VAT and excise duty.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u70	Thank you very much, Senator... [[Mrs. Marshal, can I be more specific?]] Mr. Senator, now you're going into polemics... [[No, I just...]] You'll be able to ask questions in a moment, and now you're Senator Andrzej Spider. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u71	Mrs. Marshal, Minister, I have two questions, the problems you have raised to me, the problems you have led by the CPN; he leads on a franchise basis, working with PKN Orlen. He's a very positive judge of this bill. He's been talking about them, and today, as I'm saying, he's judging very positively... Moreover, cooperation with Orlen, who has such a large increase in income over the past year, already indicates that, let's say, some very good projects have been undertaken on this subject. This gentleman asks, among other things. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, The point is that when carrying out transport between warehouses of the same economic operator, i.e. storage shift MM, goods subject to SENT regulations, add an obligation to enter the registration number of the vehicle to which this transport will be carried out. Does that even make sense? Is this possible at this stage, when a programme has already been implemented, done, prepared? It also brings up a second topic, a problem. He asked for an analysis of the situation in which the customer, a non-farmer, fills not into the tank of a car or another vehicle... If it's in the container, it's obvious. If the fuel in the tank is fueled into a barrel of more than 500 litres, it shall be carried by a vehicle, e.g. for construction site There could be cases like this... Is it subject to SENT rules in this case and is that justified? [[He's underneath.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u72	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u73	I'll start with Senator Blackbay's question. We will prepare in writing information and excise duties, and VAT, full information about the collection... [[Good.]] I understand your intentions. We will present the effect of the fuel package covering VAT and excise duty to show what the effects are. I also understand the argument to take into account the issue of the natural increase in consumption income. [[Send it to me, too.]] Good. [[I'll tell you.]] As regards the obligation under Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5, it is reported in paper form, and the institution, the national tax administration body, is required to issue confirmation of receipt of documents. Confirmation of receipt of documents is quite simple, because this is not a task that involves entering data. In fact, the confirmation information is just giving a number, it's quite efficient and fast operation. We don't expect it to last long, that it will last for no one knows how many hours. In fact, it's an operation that should fit in a certain number of minutes. She's just saying that someone comes in with the files, finds that the electronic system doesn't work, presents the documentation on paper, and gets confirmation of acceptance. The issuing of a confirmation of acceptance shall be the sole responsibility of the authority. As for the two questions that... the first one was about the registration number of the inter-stock transfer. Suggestion to enter a registration number seems justified. Indeed, we have wondered whether there is room for this to happen now. Most likely due to the advancement of this project... This project involves restricting the transport of goods from abroad, so we propose that this solution be introduced along with another project, which is processed in the Ministry of Finance and concerns GPS transmitters. The point is that this bill should then be supplemented by this registration number. It's like it could take a few months, but it's definitely gonna be in the first half of the year. I mean, I hope that by the first half of the year the legislative work will already be advanced and therefore this draft law, which is also revised in this respect, will appear here in the High House. As far as 500 litres are concerned, the bill has a certain advantage of restraint in order to act effectively. It is so that if the trader carries more than 500 l, any transport of more than 500 l from the trader to the trader is subject to an obligation. Let me remind you that this bill covers the sale of fuel between traders. This means that it does not cover the sale of fuel to farmers, to natural persons not engaged in business activities. If we are dealing with a situation where the trader sells more than 500 l, in any way, and the goods are transported, then there is a reporting obligation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u74	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Spider wanted to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u75	Very briefly. So with regard to this first proposal, you think the Minister is reasonable and will be implemented?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u76	Yes. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u77	Please, Minister. Do you have anything to say?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u78	No. No. I confirm that this is very... [[Uh-huh. I see. Excuse me...]] I mean, we're aware that these comments are right. They will be taken into account during the revision of this law in the first half of the year.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, Minister, I have two questions. First: what are the expected profits from the implementation of this law? How do you estimate that? And second question. The farmer who does not conduct business orders more than 500 l. Is there any need to keep records on his side? Does he report it and he can buy more One thousand or two thousand liters? And who's reporting the sale to this farmer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u81	You're welcome... No, I'm sorry... wait a minute. Senator Piotr Florek. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u82	Minister, I remember that when we tried the National Tax Administration Act, it was concerns about the dismissal of employees of the Customs and Treasury Office. I understand that these 1,500 people who are going to be employed are in such a good direction. If only this had some financial effect... Mr. Stanisławek was actually asking me what I wanted to ask you. Because you had to estimate the possible costs. I would like to know not only the revenue, but also what the income of these changes will actually be. With this employment, of course. Minister, Senator Czarnobaj asked about air transport. Then I'll ask you again. 'Cause this bill only applies to road transport and road transport, and that's what I'm asking you. It's about revenue. What are they like? Of course, those relating only to this bill. And I'd like to know if, as far as rail transport is concerned, you're not worried that maybe... [[And sea.]] [[Shoulders.]] I can add seaman too. Don't you have any concerns? We want to look at these issues as comprehensively as we already do. Do you think there's a need for interference in this case, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u83	Please, Minister, answer the senator's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u84	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start with the farmer's problem. The Act introduces the obligation to declare the carriage of goods between traders. So if we're dealing with a situation where someone's transporting 1,000, 2,000, 10,000, 20,000, 20,000 l, there's no obligation. So there is no obligation to report such transport either on the sender's side or on the recipient's side. Of course, we are aware that when a tanker arrives on the road, this situation will be analysed. Because notice what the value of this bill is. The value of this law is precisely that we want to get as much electronic data as possible. The point is to quickly make the transportation of goods between companies based on reports... The person stopping on the road states that he is dealing with legal transport on the basis of a notification, and then he has more time to analyse these cases when a tanker is actually going to a natural person, without reporting or without documentation. Such situations are analysed. We have more time and more energy. Well, 1,500 people analyze these cases and decide whether to use a convoy. Between 10 January and 1 March, the convoy was used 424 times. In fact, it is an instrument that seems effective in many cases, you can say, border, when we assume that there has been or may be a crime. Convoying is a kind of risk mitigation instrument. The point is to get the tanker to the site and see if the customer is really a natural person and why the fuel was transported there. If we are dealing with a legitimate situation, e.g. It turns out that it is a farmer who really needs fuel Then we solve this problem by deciding that everything is legal. It would be difficult to impose a notification obligation on individuals. This law has been balanced so that those people who carry out business activities and have instruments to carry out settlements, as well as have certain obligations relating to the conduct of business, also accept these additional obligations related to that law. In the case of individuals, it would be difficult Well, that would be pretty embarrassing. To introduce a number of new obligations, as individuals are not... Let me put it another way: if there is a situation in which we are dealing with the smuggling of goods and convincing people who operate on the roads that the goods are being transported to a natural person, then either convoluting or monitoring this transport will be applied so as to settle this issue and not imposing unjustified obligations on individuals. There was also a question about the fiscal effect. Well, the impact assessment states that budget revenue in 2017 will increase by around 380 million and that in the following years this amount will increase to over 1 billion. In fact, today we are dealing with the most important source of crime, road transport. It is about tankers, often from overseas, often from other countries of the European Union. This is the biggest, most important source of these problems. This law aims to address this problem and reduce crime in this area. We know that there is probably also a problem with the carriage of goods by rail or sea, for example. On the shoulders. It's analyzed. In fact, there is still time for further steps to check and discuss whether it would be justified to monitor this transport closely. Therefore, we need to check whether there are instruments other than the notification mechanism. Please note that rail transport can also be verified by other instruments. The aim is to address the problems of crime in a proportionate way and not impose excessive responsibilities. If the problem of maritime smuggling can be resolved otherwise It's analyzed. This will be the solution that will be put into effect. For the time being, these issues are being analysed at the Ministry of Finance, but we thought it necessary to take this first step, which is to reduce the smuggling of goods in tankers, through wheeled transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u85	Thank you, Minister. And Senator Robert Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u86	Minister, I mean goods that are classified according to the PKWiU group. This is a very broad classification, because among others. there are ingredients such as cement, mortar and concrete additives. Should such things also be reported if they are carried in containers of more than 500 litres, or is this not an option? That's my first question. And second question. As I understand it, this bill will also affect honest entrepreneurs. It's a complication of certain actions. Can we be tempted to say that with the help of honest entrepreneurs we are fighting the grey zone? Because the job is to fight the gray zone, but it's gonna be harder.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u87	Is there another senator who would like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u88	First thing. The Act was amended in the course of internal legislative work so Also under the influence of the Government's Legislative Centre To leave excise goods in it. So I don't have any information that they're there. If they are not excise goods Cement additives. Other goods which are not excise goods and for which there are certain doubts, e.g. as often mentioned rape oil would be covered by the notification obligation under the Regulation. The idea is to make it possible for such a more flexible introduction and removal of goods from the list when, in their case, the crime problem disappears. To be honest, I can't... I can answer that question in writing later. But I don't know about cement additives that are covered by the law. Only excise goods are included in this Act. As far as honest entrepreneurs are concerned, this issue has already appeared in the discussion. In general, the problem of non-payment of VAT and excise duties is a common problem in the European Union today. This is due to an important problem which is being observed by all, all European Union countries, which is precisely the zero VAT rate for intra-Community acquisitions of goods. Thus, in a situation where the goods cross the Polish-German border, the seller receives a VAT refund on the German side and a zero VAT rate applies during intra-Community acquisitions. This raises a number of problems relating on the one hand to carousel crimes, and on the other hand to the mechanism for placing goods on the economic market without paying tax. Last year, the European Commission prepared the so-called. action plan, a document setting out an action plan for changing the VAT system. The point is to solve this problem by eliminating the zero VAT rate, but this is a very distant perspective, because this position does not receive such strong support. In particular, France is a country which is most strongly identified with the current VAT system. There is therefore some difficulty in resolving quickly the key gap created by the VAT system in the European Union. The point is that the goods pass through the border without being noticed, because the border is actually invisible, so the goods appear in the territory of Poland and there are not always taxes paid. As a result, many countries are solving this problem by trying to monitor... Many countries monitor this problem to know how to solve this problem. Of course, you can change the VAT system, but you can see that the way to doing this is far away, or you can improve the functioning of the tax administration by typing entities into risks, by having better instruments, data collections, better functioning tax administrations. The VAT gap varies depending on the efficiency of the administration. Those countries that are quickly able to conclude that the entity is suspected that this is the entity that should be checked and checked within 24 hours have a VAT gap smaller. And those countries where the administration has just acquired these competences have just obtained such IT instruments, including analytical instruments, rapid response efficiency, have a VAT gap greater. Poland is a country that tries to catch up with the best countries as soon as possible, the best patterns. Many countries are modelled on the Netherlands, which has already rehearsed the problem of illegal transport, VAT gaps, with its customs union of Benelux countries many, many decades ago, even in the second half of the 20th century. And this is the instrument of effective administration. But at the same time, in order for this efficient administration to function, we need to monitor And that is also, you can say, the consensus that is adopted Three rounds. First of all, the circulation of money. For this reason, there are solutions to use money transfers between entities to better monitor the payment of invoices in order to better see what money transfers are. Secondly, the circulation of documents. The documents are very important from the point of view of VAT refund, billing, tax reduction. So the point is to monitor both the circulation of money and the circulation of documents. But the third circulation, which is the circulation of goods, is also increasingly being analysed. Although monitoring the circulation of money and goods solves the problem of tax carousel, we do not really solve the problem of this second source of VAT gap, which is the sale of goods completely without any documentation, illegal sales, without invoice, without receipt, hidden in fact transactions between traders. Of course, it leads to... Is it possible to say that this is an invention of Poland to introduce these solutions here? This is, you can say, a standard, that is actually for entrepreneurs... Entrepreneurs with whom we are discussing are aware that it is so that criminals, which are very often foreign companies, use the inefficiency of the administration and use just the lack of knowledge about the economic turnover based on the transmission of electronic money, on transfers, lack of knowledge, which is given by the analysis of invoices. And that's why the single control file, the Central Register of Invoices... It will also be possible to work on it once a single control file has been established. And also the circulation of the goods... It is extremely important to have a full analysis. Unfortunately, the businessman... I mean, the entrepreneurs I talked to are aware... If we want honest entrepreneurs to win in the open market, it can't be that those dishonests have excessive preferences, they don't pay taxes, they earn more, they can sell goods cheaper than the market. And that, of course, also has fiscal effects. These obligations are partly borne by traders. And the main problem is that the competition in the European Union between countries is a little bit that countries that are effective, you can say, push this carousel to other countries, push this activity to other countries that are less efficient. In this respect, Germany, which does not have overdeveloped IT instruments, is only building them, are much more effective in terms of efficiency in administration, and can make these tax carousels... that those who sell fuel illegally will appear on the Polish side rather than on the German side, rather they will function somewhere at the borders of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. Although the Czech Republic and Slovakia are also trying very quickly to solve this problem, they are putting Dutch experiences into practice. So here's the problem: if we don't do this, that is, if we don't go the way other countries are going, introducing new instruments, then our VAT gap is going to grow, criminals from other countries are going to move where these solutions are not, where it's hardest to find a criminal. And that's the reason. You could say, if we're standing still, we're going backwards. And that is the biggest problem when it comes to the bill under discussion. That means, in fact, that certain obligations are imposed, and that must be truly acknowledged. But the benefits of the bill are much greater than those 3 minutes spent on the introduction of goods into the PUESC register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. There won't be any more questions, so thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Minister! It so happens that there are companies in my district who have been asking for action to prevent unequal competition for years, mainly in the fuel market. And, of course, it's a good thing that there's such a proposal. The same was said by the Polish Chamber of Liquid Fuels. Actions in this area have long been expected. And it can't be, it shouldn't be that those who illegally import fuel into the territory of the Republic of Poland and sell it side by side, devastate the market. Earlier activities have already started, according to my interlocutors, to produce positive results. However, I think we need a good thought, to think about how to do it, so that this is appropriate to the problem. On a good case and the Minister, as I pointed out in the question, showed that the real problem concerns imports from other countries in the territory of the Republic of Poland of excise goods, mainly liquid fuels, and unregistered trade. Yes, it is true that the reverse VAT would not work here because it is not registered sales at all. So this isn't VAT fraud, this is VAT avoidance. However, the fact that domestic transport, internal transport, is also covered by this regulation is not only a handicap. It seems to me that the effect of this, Minister, will be unnoticeable, and maybe even lead to the fact that instead of focusing on what is most important... Because our boundaries, as it turns out, are still not tight despite various actions. But instead of focusing on it, Several directions were indicated here, other than land transport only. We want to monitor a large group of entrepreneurs. That's where the sentences are very different, isn't it? At the committee meeting asked by me, the Minister said that these applications, so the companies that will carry out these transports, are 40,000 a day. In turn the Polish Chamber of Liquid Fuels said that it could be 100,000 or 150 thousand. It's totally excessive. The pair that will be activated will largely go, as it is commonly said, in the whistle. We're gonna get people to monitor business-to-business traffic. Ladies and gentlemen, what does reality look like? I hope the Minister knows. Well, the tanker is leaving and has an order to reach several tens of thousands of litres to dozens of customers, dozens of companies. Carnivals, bakeries, agricultural rings, schools which are heated for oil, etc., etc. These are both those who have the status of entrepreneurs and those who do not have such status. And what happens if someone goes to the entrepreneur first, Minister, and then goes with another party from the same tanker to school? Imagine this is a whole new operation. How do I identify her? How do I save it? What do you mean, drive in a tank of 10%? capacity to each recipient separately? This is nonsense. So it's pointing to this, and it's not just from today. The Minister mentioned a consultation. That's what's been said, but this case hasn't been settled. In addition, such a low level of transport was set, that it is even below the level of fuelling the tractor in the company, e.g. construction. Well, I guess there's no imagination here, and that's absolutely true, Minister. I understand the desire to seal, but you have to set a ceiling either higher or more precisely indicate who the entrepreneur is. The Minister probably knows that municipal companies have recently been identified as those that have to pay VAT. Of course, there is one definition of the company in the Business Act, and there is already another definition in the VAT Act. So isn't it the case that somebody has already decided to do so, that the judgments of the court will also be... The Minister denies it, says the farmer doesn't. I don't know. What about special ops? What about farm circles? It's really going. The furthest in Europe, and without any piloting. You want to do an experiment in a living economy? Do you have the guts? Are you willing to suffer the consequences of what might happen? I take it you do. We asked you to think about it. We asked for a dialogue. And it seemed like we were saving ourselves some time. I even approached the Minister and congratulated him on this. But it turns out that the yield of time is, so to speak, minimal. That is why, of course, I am making a whole set of amendments that could improve this bill, and I reiterate the amendment that this law should enter into force a little later. Minister, I'll repeat... You've already told the senator, but it's worth it again. I think it was Senator Bear who said, "Let us not witness repairs or attempts to repair, which will actually resemble the autopsy of many companies that will not be able to meet these requirements." I am surprised that financial specialists, that economic specialists are deaf to the substantive arguments. If the Minister could convince me of this speech. And I asked you that. The problem in Poland is internal transport between companies, I would certainly not dare to go out here with such words. But even the Minister has admitted here that this is not a problem, or at least it is not a major, fundamental problem. Ladies and gentlemen, what is produced here... We know that because it's produced by domestic companies, we know how much it's produced to whom it's sold. And in reverse VAT, we can delete it immediately, that's not a problem. I respect these rules and make an amendment, in the hope that we will try to make the necessary changes at the committee meeting by throwing on the tape. Otherwise And let's get this out of this place. You will take on a very serious responsibility for what is happening with these bakeries, butcher shops, cooperatives, and even, who knows, maybe with some public institutions after the introduction of this law. It seems that it should be, Minister, vice versa: six months we check, test, learn and then enter. And the minister tells us we're bringing it in, and we'll see it in six months. Well, we'll see... Only it's playing the company's fate, playing the company's fate. That's not how it's supposed to be. Mrs. Marshal, I'm putting together a team of amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is another important act concerning business activity in Poland, but also a law valid from the point of view of the state's income, sealing the tax system. That is also what the Minister said: a bill that is intended to lead to a good, fair business activity. And now a few words. 'Cause Senator Pekkis didn't say exactly enough about it. On the committee's meeting. Entrepreneurs said with one voice that what is related to the activity of honest entrepreneurs is in the right direction, that is to say, paying taxes, what is involved in the integrity of the market, so very important that we are talking about here, namely the market for excise goods, fuels and all these products that are related to this law. [[Mr. Senator Secretary, this is...]] But it's about a thing that's accepted, non-killing entrepreneurship... [[But this is it...]] Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, but I'm a little upset about this. ...and not causing an excessive bureaucratic and administrative burden with poor results. Entrepreneurs say that a good example of VAT sealing and solving problems was reversed VAT on steel products. It was a bill that was introduced in the previous term. As the Minister said, reverse VAT cannot be introduced in this area, and we understand that. However, we would like to draw attention to a few things. Minister, the first aspect is the one you were talking about: the ratio of effects to inputs. Well, if we put together 1 000 500 people to do this, even if some of the responsibilities are gonna be different, although in general it's gonna be their main task, with 300 million revenue, then we'll see that the effect isn't lightning. If we put together the operating costs of this number of people working with income estimated by you, we need to think deeply about this. But what's even worse? We impose an administrative obligation on internal traffic, internal transport, and the main problem is what, as the Minister said, comes from the outside. So there is no country in Europe that is successful and based its actions on monitoring the internal market. And here entrepreneurs gave a lot of examples: 500 l or 500 kg is moved in internal traffic as part of the normal technological movement of many devices. These are sectors such as construction, transport, agriculture, but the one with a lot of agricultural activity, and all other industries that are based on excise products. And there was an example when it came to transport. Association entrepreneurs say this: Polish transport gives 18 billion PLN of revenue, and 2 million entrepreneurs who operate in this industry, thus uncompetitively burdened with various kinds of excessive tasks, become less and less competitive. The Minister answered the question: we will introduce it and then we will see how it will work. A representative of this industry said that after this six-month period, when you do your analysis, it will be a professional autopsy. Well, you can't do that, you know, that we're putting something in first, we don't know what the effects are, and it's only six months later that we're saying, but we're wrong. This is too important a problem, ladies and gentlemen. Entrepreneurs' proposal was clear, simple and clear: let us monitor more, even more, everything that is happening in the course of the movement to Poland. Everything that is created in Poland is subject to registration, and the case of everything that enters Poland, it is necessary to increase registration. I also enjoyed the comparison presented by the person acting on behalf of the transporters. Ladies and gentlemen, you should not look for VAT revenues in cans, but in tanks. Examples given at the committee meeting I'm not going to quote them here. They pointed to the risks posed by the introduction of this system. That's one thing. Secondly, none of the countries has decided on such a system. As the Minister said, Benelux countries with great success in this area And I asked the Minister about it. They do not have such an internal tracking system. If we're talking about Hungary, we have to say that they have five times higher standards for tracking internal transport, but they don't have external... what Senator Robert Gaweł just said here... We want to eliminate the grey zone in Poland with our hands of honest entrepreneurs. Next line. Minister, I asked that in the debate. I know that we, as people who regularly receive salaries, salaries... It's indifferent to people like that. Like the Minister said, there's art. 9, so the entrepreneur reports and waits for it to be registered. However, imagine that these are often decisions that... were mentioned during the discussion at the committee meeting. I'm talking about the construction industry now. If there is a failure and you have to pour 600 l of oil into the entire hydraulic system, then every hour is important for such an entrepreneur. Right? And if there's a system failure... It could completely paralyze your job. Earning poor, and problems for Polish entrepreneurs plenty. Let us not approach the issue of VAT sealing, thinking that if we call about 1 000 500 people and add official orders and bans, the problem will be solved. None of the countries do this, and there is no such experience. The important thing is It was praised by entrepreneurs and I also believe that this is a move in the right direction The fight against unfair competition, fraud, VAT fraud. Yes, it is the foundation of the state, the foundation of economic development, but if we want to fight it by imposing additional burdens on honest entrepreneurs, creating further administrative and technical problems, introducing questionable solutions from the point of view of cost efficiency and profits for the Polish country... Well, Minister, we need to think about this very seriously. Mr. Senator and I are making amendments, including amendments. to delay the entry into force of these solutions. Well, Poland won't collapse in three months or six months. We are talking about coming here, about increasing revenue by PLN 300 million. Every money is important, but compared to the problems they can... It is worth considering the consequences of this law for Polish entrepreneurs. I'll tell you what the transport companies said. 2 million drivers, 2 million people involved in transport There's a lot of competition in this industry today in Europe... What do the Germans or the French do? The idea is to eliminate Polish drivers from their market. This is the action that Minister Szymański was talking about. And we want to further undermine them with our actions... I can still understand the actions of the neighbouring states, although I do not support them, but I completely do not understand why we impose such burdens on them within the internal market. Minister, we would really like to ask you, by the time the committee is sitting, to consider whether any loss will result in this bill having a six-month period of vacathio legis. I'll get back to the business situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about tracking, monitoring the internal market. This is an entrepreneur with a problem with a low threshold system, which is these 500 kg, about getting and registering... Let's say that the Polish entrepreneur would like to know if he is actually interpreting the rules. What have you proposed to such an entrepreneur? The company asked the authorities of the State for an individual interpretation cost 20 PLN. Now it's 20,000 zlotys. And here is the situation that the driver conducting business activity or companies applying for an individual interpretation are to pay the amount of PLN 20,000. In addition, there is a whole range of administrative obligations imposed. It's not like that, Minister, it's just a click, and it'll be in two minutes. Well, it is always a problem concerning the imposition of additional obligations: the effect of this miserable, and problems for Polish entrepreneurs a lot. And once again, let's hope we don't do a professional autopsy on these industries in six months. That's why I'm asking you. On behalf of the Senators of the Civic Platform, as well as the entrepreneurs who attended the committee meeting and from whom we also received various kinds of proposals To reflect on these amendments while there is still time until we have implemented this whole system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u93	Thank you, Senator. Senator Władysław Komarnicki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law we are discussing was intended to facilitate the fight against the grey zone and reduce the level of the State's revenue reduction from the tax on goods and services and excise duties on the trading of the goods concerned. The initiative, Minister, is a fine one, and there is no division among us. But to prepare a good and effective law Everyone who knows a little about the law knows that. It'll take time. Meanwhile, unfortunately, we're dealing with Besides, we know this with a certain standard in this term: passing the law to the wrong person, without public consultation, and worst of all, Minister, without the voice of the interested. This is the most painful: without regard to the voice of the interested; for this law, of course, I am referring to the entrepreneurs in the transport industry. God knows how many times this has been the case and how many laws in the times of good change were pushed by the knee, without careful analysis; without a thorough analysis of the whole set of regulations and orders for particular areas of life. My wonderful fellow senator, Senator Pekkis, didn't answer my questions because he has doubts himself, only that he's a representative of a good change and he certainly won't admit it. Dear Senators, once again, I agree that the bill is needed. For we all know that the grey zone exists and it needs good law to fight it. I used to get close as an entrepreneur when I was losing to the people who were up to it. And that's why I'm in favour of everything being done according to the law. But, for God's sake, with the law, not improvising the law. And these are two different things. That's not how we're supposed to kill the transport industry. Using this law, instead of strengthening Polish entrepreneurs and helping Polish business to compete with foreign carriers, we throw logs at our feet. I'm not just talking to talk. I'm after a lot of meetings with the owners, with the employees of the transport companies. I'm saying it from an autopsy. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes sealing the supply chain are needed, but by introducing such high penalties, you need... For 26 years I have been an entrepreneur and I know that you need to give entrepreneurs time to get along with their partners. Every entrepreneur has partners. We must establish procedures, and at that time we must, Minister, train the workers. This is the essence of things. Anyone who has managed human teams knows that this is the standard to be followed. We strike at Polish entrepreneurs, who supply huge sums of state treasure every year. They are, as Senator Blackbay said, two million... Remember, you're touching a huge crowd of workers. It is about 2 million people, and I therefore appeal: let us respect them as partners, and let us not treat them as criminals. It's about the style of making these changes. Otherwise, Parliament will break the law, not create good, coherent laws. The Senators of the ruling party, you promised to listen to the citizens, so I'm asking you today as an entrepreneur. Władysław Komarnicki: listen to them because it's worth it. And one more sad statement. Whoever touches the transport industry knows how Polish companies have been pushed out of the European market over the past few years. Meet with the entrepreneurs, and you'll find out how badly they have to fight to break through. But the giggle of history: we are today helping the foreign competition with this bill. I appeal, and please, because I promised these entrepreneurs that I would ask you to wait six months. Sit down, do some analysis. Every businessman does an analysis, otherwise he'd have fallen out of the market long ago. And don't help foreign competition. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u95	Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Klein will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not repeat those words that my colleagues have said about the fact that the bill is going in the right direction and that action to limit the grey zone in the trade of various kinds of fuels is right, because none of us are discussing it. In order to seal the whole sensitive area, especially the one connected with VAT fraud, in previous years we have taken various kinds of actions. These measures are undoubtedly going in the right direction, but it seems to me that the pace is too fast at this point in time, and the area that we want to develop today, by introducing this law, is too high. I think so. I think I found some key to this haste and the scale of the operation. The fact that all this is due to what has also been pointed out today is that we are introducing a reform of the customs-treasure administration. As of 1 March, the administration had undergone far-reaching transformations. That's a good thing, but remember when you pass this bill, that part of the dispute from which the government later withdrew... The idea was that customs officers, who have so far dealt with customs matters, should also deal with security issues at airports. They had a talk about nearly 2,000 customs officers. To replace airport security workers and address security issues at airports. The government has withdrawn from this idea, but the question of these people remains... And when we say in the explanatory memorandum of the bill that the problems that we are regulating today will be dealt with by about 1,000 500 people, former customs officers, well, it is clear that it is probably the idea that this group, in order not to fire them from work, should be able to deal with this matter immediately. It seems that in the end it may and would have to deal with 1,500 people. But if we were to gradually reach that goal that we want to achieve, that is, to reduce unfair practices, it would seem that today we would have nothing to do with this surplus tax administration. And you need everything... And it is necessary to make such profound changes to the bill, to control the transport of sensitive goods, in order to give the work of such a multitude of officials who could not be exploited so far. It seems to me that it would be better if, when we adopted the bill discussed here, we wrote that first of all we are doing a great control at the border, where the goods are actually introduced without paying taxes, and if, after six months or a year, it turns out that it does not work out that these checks, these records are too weak, too small, you could enter... deeper, deeper and deeper. And so the law enters into force immediately, immediately, and it is already so far gone, so profoundly introducing administrative tightening that it can prove extremely burdensome, especially for those probably more than 90% entrepreneurs who are honest. If we say that around 1 000 500 people are to be dealt with on the side of the state administration, at least as many people in practice as possible. It's a normal thing. It must be dealt with on the business side. And it is those who are honest, because those who are dishonest will not keep any additional records, they will flee somewhere. Or maybe some of us can go to the fair zone. So I think the moves we're doing here are too fast, too violent and too far-reaching. If we were to approach this issue gradually, I think it would be much better. And I think the amendments that Senator Blackbay and Senator Augustine have made are heading in this direction. All the more so, as we have discussed with the Senators of Law and Justice in a similar way. They also pointed out that even this issue of 500 l... that this is too little and maybe this issue affects various actually easy to imagine today, and as a result it will be extremely burdensome for many entrepreneurs and can de facto compromise this law, which, after all, has, one can say, good goals. Therefore, I ask once again to look at the proposals for amendments that my colleagues have made in order to actually try to correct the law in those areas where this is still possible at this stage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u97	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u98	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Minister! I've been a little bit influenced by the senator's esteemed colleague's statement about the doubts I have. And I actually have some of those doubts. The first such general question concerns your good and pure intentions. There's no doubt... Because such a law in most neighbouring countries which have encountered the essence of open borders, full capacity of borders, should have appeared a few years ago. We know this precisely because for several years we have been registering a very bad, spoiling state and the market for theft, fraud, gently called depletion. And it flourished in the best for many, many years. There was an awareness that there was such a thing, and nothing was done about it. These actions, these... [[That's not true.]] ...all the treatments that were done were simply ineffective. Even if something was done, it was a game of appearances. For reasons that have not yet been explained, someone wanted that to happen. And those reasons would have to be in the future. I think I'll explain soon. Why did someone want to do so, those specific provisions in the law that allowed such a possibility? This is the first doubt. Another question concerns those shortcuts of thought that you are committing. My esteemed previous speaker spoke of 2 million entrepreneurs who will suffer from this right. Ladies and gentlemen, 2 million road transport operators do not serve the transport of tobacco, alcohol and fuels. They operate in general transport, the carriage of various goods, and only part of these goods are fuels and other sensitive substances. The power on the European market is the Polish transporter It's undeniable. What Polish transporters should be protected from And the senator knows that. These are raging hordes of immigrants allowed into Europe, raging in Calais, hermeticizing loads, spoiling, devastating cabins. And it's undeniable. What is to be defended from the Polish entrepreneur is the very harmful and very dangerous actions of the Austrian authorities, which regularly charge very high penalties for not fully proven offences. This is what we need to do, and this is what Polish diplomacy is doing on an ongoing basis. Anyone who attends the meetings of the Infrastructure Committee knows that. One of the last meetings of the Infrastructure Committee was precisely on this subject. So this is done. I'll keep you posted. However, I am proud to be able to participate in this, to look at the work of the government, which is taking on an ongoing and, above all, efficient legal action, legislative action aimed at the physical destruction of all these criminal, fraudulent actions that have robbed the Polish people of due taxes, due excise duties, due VAT, which prevented the economic development necessary for us, which prevented our young people from earning their jobs, so she had to emigrate. And all of this is done after a lot of hard work. I would like to thank all those who have worked on this very difficult document from this point of view. This is a document that will generate... I think the calculations included in the so-called. the impact assessment of the regulation is, I would say, delicate, and the actual profits which the Polish state, which our nation will achieve after regulating this zone, will be much higher. First of all, if we care about our transporters, we must ensure that their development is not contaminated by the fight against fraudsters, against criminals who earn their profits illegally bypassing taxes. You can't compete with them, because the charges, the excise duty sometimes exceeds the value of the goods that you transport, so if you avoid them, if you can effectively avoid the excise duty, you earn a profit disproportionate to the profit of the rest of the entrepreneurs. And that's the essence of fighting for this market. And this is being done by the Polish government now. Glory be to these people. I would like to thank Minister Wiesław Jasiński, the Deputy Minister, who has no longer dealt with this, but I am aware that the number of these changes, those proposals that have been worked out, is due to his work. I'll say something else at the end. Hungary, which is being subjected here... This is one example of good examples of countries that have tried to control this situation. The direct monitoring system, the so-called GPS, Hungary has been in place for 2 years. It hasn't been a year since we started working on this bill. I know this monitoring system is already at this stage... The work is well advanced and will soon be processed. And it will eliminate the human factor, i.e. it will be possible to monitor the flow of goods electronically. When we compare the cost of such a GPS device They're not expensive devices, it's a few hundred zlotys per unit. The cost of monitoring, the effectiveness of mobile networks in Poland with losses that the Polish state suffered from unpaid taxes will be an open question: why no one has done this yet? And I would like to ask my fellow senators today who are concerned: why didn't you? Why the next years passed and the next billions of gold Because we are talking about billions, and this will be presented to you in writing, fleeing from the Polish people? Why did my colleagues have to go abroad to work because the level of corruption in the country made it impossible to generate jobs? These are the consequences of these actions. And in this light, all of them, especially this very strong financial change that's already giving... Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't know this, I'm going to say that in recent months there has been an increase in the legal sale of fuel by 12%. That's not the limit of error, that's not promile, that's 12%. and sales of diesel increased by 20%. You are also a technician, Senator, so you know very well that such a level of growth cannot be generated by some manipulation. These must be really systemic actions that hit the problem well. And that's what it is. I am proud and hopeful about the development of the Polish state, for which I thank the Polish Government very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Andrzej Stanisławek to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a very difficult bill, which took us a very long time to work on at the committee meeting. But even though we spent more than 2.5 hours on it at the committee meeting, I am so pleased that we have listened to so-called representatives. the social side and we have become familiar with both the advantages and possible disadvantages of this law. We must make it clear to ourselves that the purpose of the Act is to seal the tax system by providing information on the carriage of sensitive goods, which is intended to direct the checks carried out to operators operating in the grey zone. The Act amends the areas where most tax irregularities are found, in particular the fraud and non-payment of tax on goods and services and the reduction in excise duties. The Minister said that in the future income is expected to be up to a billion zlotys. That's not enough. Of course, we also understand the problems of entrepreneurs, on which additional obligations will be imposed. Well, doing business in Poland, and not only in Poland, involves various burdens. What I am most pleased about, despite all my doubts, is to agree with the Minister, with the Ministry, that we will return to this law in order to examine its effects immediately after the holidays. Suppose, in September or October, we agree on a deadline for the Minister to tell us if we have anything to change in this bill. It is not that for these 2 or 3 months companies will disappear in Poland. We were already worried about this in the case of the previous act with regard to VAT sealing. We were afraid that gas companies importing gas would disappear because, according to many, the bank security was too big, many claimed that 10 million was a lot, that 3 million would be the right security. And it turned out, after Minister Naimski's presentation, that none of this had happened and there was no deregulation of the market. I believe that if, after a few months, we go back to this law and the Minister gives us the results, then we can either change it or not change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u101	Thank you very much. And Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Just a little bit. Until my previous speech, there was one more thing that was mentioned during the committee meeting, which I did not mention here. Namely, entrepreneurs also submitted that in one of the articles it is stated that in the public interest the official will be able to benefit from a withdrawal from punishment. This is a very dangerous road. That is, what concerns the decision-making of an official, even at the highest level, should be horizontal. It either decides or withdraws from it. and should be indicated in which situations and parameters. Such records are, on the whole, always not used for controlled persons. And that's the point about the draft law. And now a few words for Senator Pekkis. Mr. Senator, it is unnecessary for you to raise the atmosphere of this discussion when it comes to things that are not the subject of our deliberations. But you had a need, so go ahead. Why are you talking about stealing from the Polish people, about some conspiracy, etc... If you know about the conspiracy, go to your prosecutor and file a report. The Minister, as I know, is to say, in such cases of conspiracy detection very eager to act, and he will. Why do you move these things when we talk about it and quote what entrepreneurs... Didn't you hear the entrepreneurs at the meeting? If you've heard it, you've heard what you wanted. Both myself and the senator quoted businessmen's speeches. But what I'm trying to say is that entrepreneurs started with praise. And what did they say? That a very good solution, sealing the first decisions concerning VAT sealing, was VAT sealing in the field of steel, so-called. Invert VAT. Do you know who brought it in? The previous Senate was also working on it. That's not what it's about today, Senator, who's neglected how much. These are things for the election campaign, for the media page. I'd like you to call a conference on this. Today we are debating an important problem for Polish entrepreneurs. If you say that such actions will benefit from the fact that young Poles will be more willing to stay in the country, they will not leave, then please read the latest sociological studies. There has been an increase in the number of young Poles wishing to leave Poland. Good change, Mr. Senator? That kind of VAT seal and they're leaving? I mean, you're gonna be monitoring everything. I also want to say yes. And I recommend it. I have a document on me, probably from 1946, about the fight against crime, which affects the inefficiency of the national economy. Such documents do not create a climate. Entrepreneurs say, let's sit down and talk. What you said here, Professor Stanisławek... okay, this is a very good initiative, if you can't do another one, at least it's good. What the Minister was talking about will, I hope, be the subject of the committee's deliberations. Just so it doesn't turn out, like the entrepreneurs said, it's gonna be a professional autopsy. And it is not that for six months we will introduce things that will kill Polish entrepreneurs, that some of them will actually have problems. And what was raining here... Senator Komarnicki made it very clear that external competition wants e.g. lead to the elimination of Polish transporters from the market. And that was pointed out. 18 billion revenues create the transport market in Poland, 2 million people... This kind of thing is not something that gives them arguments when it comes to fighting on the European market. And for that reason, It's a good thing it's gonna happen. I hope that the Minister may yet lean on the amendments and say: okay, let's extend the deadline. That's it. It's not about not bringing it in. Thank you, Senator Pekkis, for your wonderful emotional performance. It's just that the election campaign, Mr. Senator, is over, and it's not a press conference, and that's not what we're talking about. But sometimes it's worth listening to what's going on in the political circle. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u103	Thank you very much. [[If you don't have arguments ad rem, you say ad personam.]] The discussion is closed. [[I was talking about arguments.]] Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer a number of questions briefly. Thank you so much for the whole discussion. Of course, we are aware that questions of doubt are important They are also taken into account. We certainly want this bill to work as best as possible, which is to limit the VAT gap, the excise gap, so that it reduces the gray zone and actually brings money to the budget. But we also want it to allow honest companies to win in the open market with criminals and to make bureaucratic difficulties, which are not as significant as the debate said. They weren't sick. A few more really important things. Indeed, the problems associated with the smuggling of fuels from abroad are the most important or major problem that we see today, but internal problems, of course, also exist. I will mention here only the problem of lubricating oil, which is produced in Poland, is reported to be its fictional export, but he later illegally, without paying taxes, appears in Poland and in this sense turnover it, you can say, is internal. Therefore, it is also necessary to analyse what is happening when it comes to the sale of goods internally. So some of the goods, including this lubrication oil, are hundreds of millions of litres, and this is the product, which is also worth remembering that in Poland it is somewhat an opportunity to not pay tax, to sell illegally. The price was mentioned here for an individual interpretation of 20 thousand PLN. But this is an inaccuracies of the fact that we are dealing with two types of individual interpretation. The standard ones used so far will continue to be covered by the price that was in force earlier, and the 20,000 were in the case of interpretations related to the circumvention clause in very complex optimisation schemes, mainly in relation to CIT. And these are exceptional issues, such issues were several hundred in the previous year. Therefore, it is not so that there is a significant change in individual interpretation. We are dealing with a significant number of entrepreneurs, but there are 8 thousand tanks that can transfer fuel in Poland. So it's worth remembering what was already mentioned here, i.e. that not all transporters carry excise goods. Tank, which can carry goods, is in Poland 800. Currently, around 1 000 200 people are involved in the control of... the fight against crime. In fact, 1,200 people are involved in the monitoring of the carriage of goods. And as a result of this law, this task will be carried out by 1,000 500 people. This is the number spike we were talking about. As far as I'm concerned... This is the last point that was mentioned here at the end: are we faced with equal competition between domestic and external companies? This law imposes obligations on Polish and foreign entrepreneurs. If it is so that a foreign trader, a transport company will transport fuel from Germany to Lithuania or Ukraine, it will have the same registration obligations as a Polish company. So there's no difference here. Also a foreign company, if it wants to carry out transit, transfer goods from Germany to Ukraine, will have to report... it will have to be registered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u105	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 411 and the report of the Commission In print No 411 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 20 February, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance dealt with the opinion of the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws. It was a government project. At the committee meeting, you presented him to Minister Skiba. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland passed this law on 10 February. There were no votes against. This law deals with two main issues. The first issue is the abolition of the OTC market and the replacement of the existing stock market and the OTC regulated market. The consequence of this change is also the change of the regulator which permits the functioning of the regulated market from the Minister responsible for Finance to the Financial Supervision Commission. And that's the first line. And then there's the second line. It is about introducing a new concept into the national legal order, namely the concept of derivatives account. The Legislative Office proposed three amendments, which dealt with technical issues, references to specific rules, and the Ministry of Finance agreed to these 3 amendments. These 3 amendments were tabled by the Commission and, following the introduction of these 3 amendments, it issued a positive opinion on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Paweł Gruza, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, is present. Would the Minister like to speak? No. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 412 and the report of the committee In print No 412 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I had an honorable duty to report on the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The meeting took place on 20 February 2017. And I would like to start by saying that during the meeting, the committee recommended positively the draft submitted, in a version submitted by the government. During the vote there were no votes against, 7 senators voted in favour of this bill. What is this bill about? It is a law from a package of laws on the trading of financial instruments. This law implements a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council in the Polish legal order. the MAD Directive, and the European Parliament Regulation, so-called the MAR regulation governing the financial market. This concerns EU rules on criminal sanctions for market abuse. The proposed act strengthens the protection of participants in the Polish capital market, including individual investors in public companies, and increases the safety of trading on this market, among others. by increasing the maximum penalty from 3 to 4 years of imprisonment for disclosure of confidential information and for recommending or encouraging the acquisition or disposal of the financial instruments concerned. In addition, the Financial Supervision Commission will be able to impose on a central securities deposit that violates financial penalties up to more than 82 million or an equivalent amount of 10% the total annual income shown in the last audited financial statements for the financial year if it exceeds 82 million. The Commission will also be empowered to impose a fine on the natural person responsible for the infringements To the amount of more than 20 million. The law shall enter into force 30 days after the date of publication, except for certain provisions which will enter into force on 3 January 2018. During the committee meeting, a discussion was held on the level of penalties. The Ministry of Finance has taken the view that the directive and regulation governing the level of those penalties are a rigid legal act and that there is no way, so to speak... Within the framework of the Polish legal system, the level of these penalties cannot be regulated at the statutory level. The request for a reduction in the amount of penalties, and in principle not so much a reduction as the introduction of a certain adequacy of those penalties, was made by a representative of the Stock Exchange Issuers Association. On the part of the representative of the Ministry of Finance, the Minister present at the committee meeting, we have heard a declaration that, in view of the fact that such regulations cannot be introduced and reduced at the statutory level of the directive and the regulation, this will be... This can be done by means of an implementing regulation, which will regulate the level of those penalties and possible gradation in this respect, taking into account the seriousness of the offences and irregularities carried out by the Financial Supervision Commission. Actually, I think that's it. As I mentioned at the beginning, 7 senators were in favour, there were no votes against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u109	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Paweł Gruza is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? Thank you very much. At present, senators may raise questions from a place of no more than one minute to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 414, and the report of the Commission In print No 414 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present a report on the Act amending the Public Finance Act. Two projects appeared last year: the Senate of March last year and the second one presented by the Council of Ministers in autumn in November. Both of these projects were merged and presented to the Sejm. The Sejm passed the bill, and our committee discussed this project on February 20th. What is the purpose of this bill? It is because the application of the current rules has given rise to various kinds of doubts. These doubts concerned whether civil claims could be remitted in whole or in part and whether such claims could be broken down into instalments. This draft gives answers to these questions, gives solutions. These solutions concern several areas. First of all, the Act refers to when these entitlements can be spread over instalments or decommitted from office, and introduces the possibility to take such a decision upon request. It also introduces a second regulation which excludes the possibility for local self-government entities to waive claims on independent public health establishments. The third point introduced by this Act is the possibility of non-payment where the principal, together with interest, is less than PLN 100. Another fourth regulation is to introduce the possibility of remission of claims ordered in favour of the Treasury in the form of reimbursement of the costs of the procedural replacement if they were ordered in proceedings aimed at preventing violations of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. In the next fifth area, the Act also clarifies the entities competent to call for the reimbursement of European funds which have been used improperly or in breach of procedures. In the sixth area of regulation, the Act repeals a provision which may give rise to interpretation doubts as to the scope of documents produced by the internal auditor in the course of internal audit. By this provision, we are satisfied with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 April 2015. The last seventh amendment is to extend the scope of the Article. 163 Act on the collection of income from compensation, rental income or interest in entities established abroad under two ministers: the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Economy. And that's seven areas governed by this new law. The Commission recommends adopting this submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u111	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government and the Senate. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Tax Code. The text of the Act is contained in print 432, and the report of the Commission In print No 432 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission met at its seventy-sixth meeting on 2 March and considered the Personal Income Tax Act and the Tax Code Act... i.e. the Law amending these laws, of course, yes. It was a 432 senate print. This bill brings a number of facilities for our citizens. The aim is to free taxpayers from income tax on individuals earning income exclusively from payers, including pension authorities, from making their own tax returns. It also allows those taxpayers who are cleared by pension authorities to transfer 1% a tax for a public benefit organisation without the need to provide a tax return solely on the basis of a statement made indicating the appropriate public benefit organisation. This law is also important for the functioning of the tax system, as it reduces the costs associated with collecting personal income tax, primarily eliminating paper tax returns. During the committee's work, there was talk of saving about 10 PLN in the processing of one paper PIT statement and replacing it with an electronic form. Amendments were tabled in committee: 2 legislative amendments and 1 substantive amendment, which I would like to discuss further. This is an amendment designed to make it easier for citizens to access this possibility of electronic submission of tax returns. We want the committee to propose... That's a very good amendment, Senator Sagatovska's amendment. It was tabled during the committee's work, and the committee accepted it after a long discussion and a number of self-corrections to this amendment, so it accepted the draft of such a way of giving testimony or communicating with the tax portal of the tax administration. And here we are talking about communicating through ICT systems, which are run by financial institutions, banks and cooperative credit and savings banks, which ensure the security, integrity and confidentiality of the data transmitted to the tax portal. Thus, citizens of the Republic of Poland will be able, using Internet banking, to communicate very conveniently with the tax portal. In this way, more quickly, this way of testifying is more easily disseminated. There will be no need to enter a separate tax portal. You will be able to do this PIT, pass this settlement when making transactions by electronic banking. During the committee's work, the success of using this communication channel to submit proposals in the 500+ programme was recalled. About 90% applications were submitted by an Internet channel... Did I get the data wrong? No. The Minister confirms I remember well that 90% data was provided via the Internet channel, a significant part of which is the communication with the use of banking information systems. So while we are talking about building a digital society, spreading Internet contact, eliminating paper, saving office hours, this proposed amendment is appropriate. A similar solution, similar, almost identical amendment, was made by the government. The Sejm has not decided to open this communication channel, but the Senate Committee has a different view on this matter. We believe that the right move is to open up, make it easier for citizens to participate in such digital communication with the tax administration. What we've improved on about what was in the government project... There has been a clear statement that digital communication, through the use of the bank's or SKOK's IT system, is to be provided free of charge by these institutions. So we are not talking about building a service market for these institutions, but rather about a function of service, which these bodies of public trust would perform for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic, their clients, but also partly for the benefit of the fiscal apparatus. So much for my report. The Commission proposes to be adopted in accordance with the report submitted. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u113	Thank you very much, Senator, thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I won't ask if any of your senators... because I see Mr. Czerwinski's raised hand. Please, first Senator Czerwiński and later, second, Senator Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u114	Thank you for your voice, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr Senator, Mr President, do you have any idea why the Sejm has not decided to adopt an amendment on the possibility of using... bank statements? Were there any arguments against it, and if so, what were they like?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u115	We asked this question, I myself asked this question during the committee meeting, but unfortunately the rapporteur, the rapporteur, the representative of this law, did not attend the committee meeting. We have been given explanations from Minister Skiba here. The debate in the Sejm was primarily, I understand, about equality or equal access for all institutions holding clearing accounts to this channel of information or to the use of this provision. In fact, the committee did not get a clear explanation of the reasons why the Sejm decided to vote against this provision. Perhaps the Minister in his speech will be more involved in this, because, as I said, the rapporteur did not attend our meeting, we could not directly ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u117	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, Mr President, I am speaking because, so to speak, the purity of the transcript. In the course of discussing the report of the committee meeting, the senator used such a wording that the bill was intended to eliminate the tax return made by taxpayers so far. At the committee meeting, it was clearly stated that this is basically... [[Cell phone signal]] Oh, I'm sorry. ...easing, improving, reaching out to the citizens. It's kind of a delicate suggestion. And as for the question... Mr. Senator, are you... Because here, so to speak, there was a discussion about the amendment tabled during the committee meeting. I would like some clarification on how to make this statement through banks or cooperative savings and credit banks. Will this be a paid service? Because that's important, too. What will happen to the data obtained by the banks in this way? Is the amendment exhausting the possibility, so to speak, of making use of such facilities for citizens by those who will serve these bank accounts and allow such statements to be made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much...]] Mr. Senator, wait a minute, let's see if... Would any of you like to ask the senator a question? No. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u119	Thank you very much for your attention, perhaps I have expressed myself imprecisely. After all, the intention of our work is undoubtedly to eliminate paper evidence and replace it with a digital form. Well, we're talking about the whole program, the Polish Digital one in which we participate, and that's part of the program. Taxpayers will be making these... communicating with the tax portal. The tax office will calculate the tax amount for them itself. The taxpayer will have to confirm this calculation, also by communicating electronically. Hence, it is the security of processing that is important, the reliability of the electronic signature, which taxpayers use, after all, by communicating with the institution running their bank account. So they're going to verify themselves in this communication using bank codes or cash-delivered codes. Of course, this law does not eliminate paper settlement, it can still be done, but we open up the possibility of using not only electronic communications, but also, which is very important, of carrying out the tax settlement by the tax authority in which the taxpayer merely approves its settlement. Is that gonna be paid? I was talking about it, it was an important self-correction made during the meeting. In point 2, we're talking about making this free of charge. Thus, the benefits of taxpayers, which will mediate the exchange of data, cannot be obtained, cannot introduce fees for the transfer of data into their price list to tax portals. Data protection. The data contained in this application are of course subject to the Personal Data Protection Act, as all processed data are subject to the Personal Data Protection Act. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 in this amendment it is clear that the bank or SKOK may not process, disclose or use the data contained in the application for purposes other than the transmission of the request or statement referred to in the case of an indication of the public benefit institution to which the taxpayer wishes to transfer 1% Your tax. Therefore, the data are duly protected, subject to the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act applicable to this provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u120	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the senator, so thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome, Minister. Mr Leszek Skiba is also with us at this point. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you very much. I'll answer your questions.]] Good. Of course, the senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the Minister relating to this item on the agenda. Any of you... There's a question. Here you go, Mr. Arkadiusz Grabowski. Is there anyone else? Yes, Senator Czerwinski, second in order. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u121	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about... The Senator rapporteur has discussed the committee's meeting quite thoroughly. My first question concerns the amendment tabled, which was not really an amendment, because it was in the government project, but it was not accepted at the Seym stage. It is about the role of banks and SKOKs throughout the process, about you discussing it, because it is not going to be, as I understand it, to make statements, rather the role of intermediaries. That's one thing. I'd like you to take that into account. The second question is how much interest... In order to carry out the whole procedure by banks, if the bank decides to make such a service available, it is necessary to know what is the interest of the banks this year, because the law will enter into force already this year and will concern the current settlement, the settlement for 2016. What is the interest of banks and SKOKs? And the third question. During the committee meeting, it was said that the intention was also to eliminate... not eliminate, but reduce the share of paper tax returns. But it was also said during the committee's meeting that the Ministry would like to release official resources and redirect them to other tasks, more important than data input, the common application of data from paper documents. What kind of resources would that be? How many officials? What will they be involved in? Will there be reductions in employment due to the introduction of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u122	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u123	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I will only concentrate on this amendment that we know of. The first question is a repetition of what was addressed to the President: why did the Sejm or the Sejm committee in general not decide to accept the draft, however viewed by the government in this regard, on this amendment? What were the specific causes, doubts, fears? The second question is related to the content of this amendment. Well, we often refer to the 500+ family witnessing bill here. There may have been electronic requests. But there were more institutions out there that offered that possibility. These are not only banks and SKOKs, but also other institutions, including government. Why is it that, when we are talking about the dissemination of the electronic version, we do not reach more widely, especially to those institutions which have already covered this route when submitting proposals for the 500+ benefit? And one last thing. The law, which allowed this to happen, which talked about family benefits, contained quite precise conditions for the participation of these institutions, especially banks, in the process of transmitting data electronically, through the IT system. In this amendment we have 3 paragraphs and they do not exhaust the whole complexity of this problem, especially since it is not only the process of the bank, but in fact the Minister of Finance, but also the ordinary citizen. He could lose it, he could lose it. In particular, there is no e.g. provisions on the need to extinguish, delete the data that the bank will have at its disposal because it will have them. He can't process them, but he'll have them in his resources. Are we okay with that? And that's in the bill I referred to earlier. There is also no detailed procedure; it should be regulated at least by means of a regulation. Aren't you afraid that the rules that are here... Well, there's also no suing the bill, because we've talked about this before. This would be the easiest: the transmission of data takes place in a similar mode as in the Act... and here the title of the Act would have to be specified. The question is: will such narrowly outlined provisions in this amendment suffice to protect the personal data and clients of banks who will use this way and use this mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u124	Thank you very much, Senator. Well, maybe in a minute... You're welcome, Minister. Then Senator Grzegorz Bierecki will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u125	Thank you so much for these questions. The first point is to discuss the role of financial institutions in this project. I will remind you of the order of action set out in the Act. At the beginning we are dealing with the taxpayer's application, and in the case of the person who collects the pension, with a statement; this is the first step in saying: The tax authority will, of course, be based on PIT-11, i.e. the statements of payers, employers. And that is the role of financial institutions in the first step. Somehow you have to present this information, express your will, and in the proposal whether to include additional information in the statement, but this information is quite scarce. Because what information is needed in the first step? Information on which institution I allocate 1% , sometimes, if there are doubts about the place of residence, information about the costs of obtaining income, sometimes there are additional information about reliefs. Please note that there is really no information on aggregate income. So declaring that I want my annual declaration electronically filled out is the first step. I'm gonna use... Today there are several methods After the adoption of this law, there will also be several methods for fulfilling the annual statement. First of all, I can actually fill out the application with one of two important channels. Please note... Excuse me, I'm going to take a step aside to present the situation in order to allow a good understanding of the context of this bill. Today, a taxpayer who comes and wants to settle his annual statement has actually three options. First of all, he can put them on paper. Secondly, it can submit them by means of an e-declaration system, in a standard way, which today is the most widespread. So I go to the Ministry of Finance website, download the application, fill in the PIT-37 in an editable form using the e-declaration system, the statement is verified by the amount of revenue from the previous year. The less popular way to settle the annual statement today is the PFR method, i.e. from the English language of the pre-filled form, which is that I declare that I want this tax office to fill out the statement for me, based on the information that it already has, contained in PIT-11, from the employer or from the pension authority, and I only view and accept, i.e. I do not make all these calculations. This bill aims to make the electronic channel even more popular. There is still a standard e-declaration system, which was the most popular in the previous year, but the second channel in which the tax authority calculates the amount of revenue for me is precisely this channel... Now, the question is, how did you... We want this second electronic method, i.e. with a pre-calculated amount of revenue, to be as widespread as Senator Grabowski mentioned, to limit the popularity of paper declarations, which last year was 7 million. So it's about spreading the possibilities... Of course, I still have the opportunity to make a paper statement, but it is easier for me to fill out a request via a bank channel, also using an e-Corporate system, using a tax portal. There are many channels. Here is a confirmation, as in the 500+ system, that today I will be able to... that the PFR... that I will be able to submit the annual statement completed by the tax office not only by the bank channel, by the SKOK, but also by the e-Report system, by the tax portal. And that's the first step, so we're talking about how to make these conclusions appear in the system. Then the tax authority has 5 days to prepare the annual statement. Then the taxpayer gets a link to the e-mail address indicated on the e-mail address... But it enters the tax portal, here financial institutions no longer have a role. So this is what it really looks like: I'm going into the tax portal. I don't need to log in, because the link and authorization allow me to see what the effect of the application is, I watch my annual statement calculated by the tax office, I find that everything is okay, I accept it and the entire operation is complete. Therefore, in answer to the question of limiting the popularity of paper testimony, I can say that the dissemination of the electronic system is about to lead to... And in a moment's time, about the resources being released... As far as 500+ is concerned, government channels are still present. It's not that... it's basically about giving the taxpayer as much freedom as possible: I can use both the e-declarations channel and the PFR system, and under the PFR system I can file a document through the bank, through the tax portal, there are many possibilities. So that if someone does not have an account or does not have a preference to use a financial institution, he does not need to, but still has the possibility to complete, submit an application and then receive a link with an annual statement which is visible only on the tax portal, i.e. it is not visible in any financial institution. So if there are doubts about what the financial institution actually sees... He sees the cost of revenue, potential deductions, an indication of the target, which is the organisation I want to allocate 1% to. Of course, full agreement on what the President, Senator Bierecki, was talking about. The Personal Data Protection Act is in force. All the provisions of this law are in force. As part of the amendment tabled at the meeting of the committee recommended by the government, banks shall only store this data for the purposes of the transmission of the proposal. They do not have the possibility to use this data in any other way. And these sanctions, these consequences are enshrined in the Personal Data Protection Act. And so it was. Of course, in the case of a request for 500+. Second question: what banks are prepared for this? The discussion is being held because, actually since January, there has been media information about the fact that such a government project is prepared, that there will be an opportunity to propose a new free service as indicated in the amendment. Several banks are therefore interested in this, so there is a discussion. Any financial institution wishing to take advantage of this option will, of course, be able to take advantage of it. Several financial institutions, as far as I know, have asked more questions. Technical standards are presented and therefore there is no such situation that some banks or financial institutions or SKOKs are in an extraordinary privileged situation because the technical standards are presented, proposed to all financial institutions, are publicly known. As a result, any institution that decides... Of course, all this depends on the costs, on the adaptation of information systems, on whether or not a financial institution has the possibility to propose this service. This is actually dependent on specific financial institutions. At the committee meeting, there was a discussion as to whether this could affect competition. I don't think so. It's a one-time service. Rather, it is unlikely that because of the application someone... that it would be a strong incentive for consumers to make some changes, to move from a bank to a bank only because one bank offers such an opportunity and the other not, since they can benefit from several other channels, public systems. It seems to me that these opportunities should not affect competition between financial institutions, as they did not appear to have affected in the case of 500+. In fact, citizens are driven by much more important motivations such as the proximity of a banking institution, the proximity of a facility, the proximity of ATMs, the experience of longer cooperation, also the possession of loans, the interest rate of investments. These are much more important factors that guide consumer choices. As far as resources are concerned, in fact, annual statements in terms of personal income taxes appear just after submission and for months of May, June these paper versions are introduced into the system. This causes during this period in tax offices to shift part of the persons to these tasks, so as to make decisions about returns or verification of statements as soon as possible. The more electronic applications there are, the less it is necessary to transfer resources to this seasonal work, the settlement of PIT. And this allows those standard tasks that are carried out by these people, i.e. tasks related to work on the collection of other taxes, VAT, CIT... It allows these people not to be taken away from this work for this period. And in that sense, That's the greatest advantage. As far as the change in employment is concerned, the reform of the National Tax Administration, which Minister Banaś is running... He already, you can say, has his goals of reducing employment. In fact, the intention of the National Tax Administration is to make the most of the resources of people working in customs offices and tax offices. There was a question about the amendment. In fact, in the Parliamentary Committee, in the context of a clarification, which was... It was a parliamentary amendment, which she specified in the article. 45cb that a system that can be used is an e-declaration system. And this article has indeed changed the fact that it is this e-declaration system that is the channel by which an application can be made and used by this electronic route. And by the way, by the way... In fact, this amendment had a broader scope and the intention of the Member making the proposal was precisely to include the e-declarations system in the amendment. At the same time, the records from the original project... It's hard for me to say, because it wasn't really a discussion. An amendment which, as was apparent from the first discussion, was only intended to correct the recording of this channel What did the senator say? In fact, the government, or e-declaration system, has led to the disappearance of this banking channel. This was not, according to the reasons for the proposal, the intention of the rapporteur. So it is difficult for me to comment on this, because there was really no discussion on the Sejm committee about the fact that there is some declared doubt that issues relating to financial institutions are somehow put into question. This topic hasn't come up at all. Therefore, it is difficult to comment on parliamentary work, because there were no questions to the government party, nor... When I am present at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee, I am unable to determine whether the amendment was intended to do so, whether it was intentional, whether it was a deliberate intention or a mistake resulting from the fact that the article had also corrected other paragraphs. What was the nature of this amendment, it is difficult for me to say, because neither on the basis of justification nor discussion, I am unable to say that there is any doubt about it. as regards the role of the financial institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Then you're Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u127	Thank you very much. One quick question. 7 million Poles settled PIT online. What was the cost of promoting this tax settlement channel? Did the Ministry carry out any campaigns to promote this form of annual settlement? And how much would that cost?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u128	Then maybe Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u129	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome.]] Minister, I'd like to ask, on the one hand. I was interested in you and, on the other hand, worried about this amendment and the actions in the Sejm. Here's what I'm gonna say. At least that's how we work, I suspect in the Seym too. That if there are any changes in the type of addition or removal, then we ask for the position of the government. And you, as the minister who represents the government in this area, say: I agree with that, and I do not agree with that. And then the committee votes either in line with the government's position or against that position. And now the question is... I understand that this amendment, which we are now making, which was removed in the course of work in the Sejm, or actually in the Sejm committee, somehow passed by. Did you express any position in this regard, or was it just like that? It's gone, and that's why we're bringing it in now?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u130	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u131	As for the answer to the first question, which is cost, I plan to answer it in writing because I don't really know these numbers. We will be happy to see what the cost of promoting applications online was. So, if I may, I would suggest this form of answer. Question two, that's the amendment. What was crucial is indeed a clear declaration that we are really dealing with the e-declaration system, because originally Here I will admit my error on behalf of the Ministry of Finance Instead of the e-declaration system, the ePUAP system was entered, which did not allow these applications to be submitted online. I mean, he allowed it to be submitted online, but after the deposit, there was no communication with the systems of the Ministry of Finance. It was therefore crucial. The e-declarations system is the government channel which... The introduction of this amendment was also important from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, and there was hot support here. And in that sense, it really is. It was crucial. And was that the decision of the High House? It was important for the Ministry of Finance to introduce an adjustment with this amendment concerning the e-declaration system to ensure that this government channel was guaranteed. And that was the most important issue that motivated me as the representative of the Ministry of Finance to support this possibility. Because it's crucial to make sure that all the channels that are running... I mean, for the e-declaration system to show up. At the same time, this change, from our point of view, which, of course, restricts, has led to a change in the mouth, perhaps. 3 who talked about financial institutions. Indeed, this amendment removed the mouth. 3. Is it so that... the position of the Ministry of Finance was clear The most important thing is that taxpayers have the most effective opportunity to use the government channel, the e-declaration system. And that was the justification for the positive position on this amendment. If we supplement this with financial institutions, then of course there is also a benefit, but, you can say, second order. In the first step, we must ensure that all channels offered by the Ministry of Finance are correctly presented. And, of course, the second step It's also good, you can say, second order It is important that this popularity includes the possibility of using financial institutions. Therefore, if you weigh all the rations, then you can say that the key decision... I mean, the only possible decision was that, in fact, if there is such an amendment that clearly shows that the e- Declarations system, popular today, will be able to be used... Well, that's the most important point in supporting such an amendment. Of course, if the High Chamber extends this possibility to other channels, there are no obstacles. And the government's position on this proposal at the Senate committee was also positive. The senator has tabled such an amendment. And I believe that what is most important is to give the taxpayer as many opportunities as possible to submit online... Of course, the government channel is crucial. But it is worth remembering here that financial institutions can make it easier to apply online.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u132	Thank you very much. There's no more questions... [[And Senator Grabowski.]] Oh, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u133	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have such doubts... I wouldn't agree with you exactly when it comes to the distortion of competition in the market, especially this year. You said here, during the Senate meeting, and also at the committee meeting, that, apparently, 5 entities, banks were more interested in, deeper in the IT system, the requirements of the IT system to send such declarations from the level of the bank account. And my question is this. Whether this disorder occurs or not, it is not really to be evaluated. However, I would like to know from you, Minister, how many PIT taxpayers do not have a bank account, i.e. make... What is the scale of people, what is the potential customer market? Because in fact, making a declaration through a bank account for people who don't have an account yet... And the banks, let's say, five banks, will be able to set up such an account this year and send out such a declaration. This can actually affect the competitive system. I'm sure the biggest banks are interested. Smaller operators will not be able to meet certain technical requirements for the provision of such a service quickly. I'd like to know what scale taxpayers... How many taxpayers without a bank account who traditionally submit a paper version of the tax return and come to the tax office to collect in cash form... What's the scale? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u134	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u135	I'd still have to verify that number, but, as I recall, the number of tax returns that you're referring to is about $3 million. I'd have to... I'll verify that if it turns out that this number isn't true, I'll allow myself to make a written reply. But based on the information that's in the Ministry of Finance, I think there's about 3 million people who... but that means really... I mean, that's the information that's... We're talking about people who have declared a potential tax refund, but who haven't provided information about the bank account, the account number. But whether these people have a bill or not, it's hard for me to say. Anyway, this is the only information we have.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u136	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u137	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, well, your answer has inspired me again. I told you there wasn't gonna be another one. Of course, whether we're returning the overpayment to the bank account or, as it's said, to the hand doesn't depend on whether or not someone has an account... Perhaps the opposite: someone who has an account does not have to demand that the surplus is transferred to that account. But that's usually the case, because it's convenient. I have another question. You said $3 million. But these are just the people who get paid back the surplus. Tell me... You'll figure it out quickly, you're a financier, which means you probably have five in math. So do we, most of us... What is the percentage of those whose surplus is returned to all taxpayers? We're going to multiply it, or we're going to divide it by 3 million, and we're going to get the answer to the question of how many taxpayers are there, who are probably That's a reservation. They don't have an account. Okay, here's the last line. Can you imagine this situation, that after the entry into force of this law on 15 March, I recall In some selected banks, such announcements will appear: Sit with us and create an account, and we will fill out a PIT for you. It's as simple as a hood. Minister, we would like to avoid such situations, because if such information appeared in all banks, it would not be a problem, but if only in selected... We don't want to be considered lobbyists. I would ask for a serious answer to that second part of the question, to the first part too... Let's see what the scale of the market is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u138	Thank you so much for asking. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u139	Unfortunately, I don't have any information about the number of returns right now. In total, the tax returns were 16... [[That's 1/5.]] The tax returns were 16 million 500 thousand. I have no information about the total number of taxpayers who have the right to return; that is the question. And those on paper, and the electronic ones for which bank account information is provided. Therefore, the calculation of this relationship is a little embarrassing. Second line. I understand the doubt, because in fact, if any financial institution says that we're gonna settle your annual statement, that information is gonna be false. Because what's the job of a financial institution? Only mediation in the submission of the application. The annual settlement shall be carried out by the tax office, calculating this sum on the basis of the data... And that information will not appear later in the bank channel or in the SKOK channel. Therefore, it can be said that in fact such declarations and declarations concerning online settlement are false. What can be done is simply to correct this kind of public information, because in fact the only task of financial institutions is merely to pass on the proposal, which is to take the first step. Only in the second step is the calculation and the performance... The statement is submitted for acceptance already by means of a tax portal. So if we had to deal with this situation, it would have to be made clear that this is an unfair practice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u140	You're still Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u141	Yeah, that's the last question. Minister, or without this single amendment that triggers the banking channel, this whole project, i.e. This bill holds together, is it consistent? Maybe we could pass this bill without this one amendment, taking our time with this banking channel, right now, 1.5 months... well, two months before the end of the PIT submission? Of course, without this amendment, she is also bearable, little is desirable. She really simplifies the procedure and gives more opportunities to the taxpayer, and to you, the tax administration, makes it easier to work. So, yes or no? Short answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u142	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u143	Without this amendment, the main objective of the law, namely the dissemination of the electronic channel, will not be achieved.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u144	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Andrzej Stanisławek was the first to speak in the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to say that I am very happy with this law, because this is another stage in building a society based on the flow of electronic information. We can refer to practices in other countries where money is slowly withdrawn from the market, passing only on to electronic payments. I say this in this context, that most Polish society has bank accounts. As far as the number of bank accounts is concerned, there are more bank accounts than the population of Poland. Of course, some may have more than one bill. This indicates that society is running its finances using banking institutions. This law imposes additional obligations on banks. The bank won't make money on us, on society. Of course, there is nothing to worry about banks, because the bank's profit for last year is much higher than in previous years. It is also interesting that, despite the bank tax, the profit of the banks is greater. Maybe this bank tax is too small? Well, let's not worry about the banks having to do this kind of service free of charge. This is not a service for banks or SKOKs, but a service for society as a whole. I am very happy about this, and I support this law and all kinds of laws that will make life easier for us. I can only hope that similar computerisation will also take place in health care, which is what we are waiting for, because without this computerization our health reform is limping. So that I support this bill. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will now speak to the president, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u147	Mr. Marshal, I should actually start with where you ended up. Without this amendment, this law will not carry out the task of promoting the electronic channel for submitting tax returns. 13 million Poles use electronic banking, and only 7 million Poles have benefited from the possibility to settle their PIT through the tax administration portal. There is, therefore, a gap of 13 million adult Poles using electronic banking, and only 7 million account for their PITs online. PIT settlement, I'd say, paperwork is an effort for about 15,000 tax officials. Seasonal upstairs when we fold these PITs... They have to manually enter them into the electronic tax system, and the tax administration must store these paper PITs, protect the data contained therein, transport these tons of paper and finally provide free tax forms, paper tax forms, taxpayers. We are dealing with the possibility of saving work and materials used by taxpayers. I informed in the report that the savings resulting from the operation of this law are estimated at about 10 PLN from PIT. The comfort that we will offer by introducing this amendment was here, I would say, the most intensely discussed It will make the taxpayer able to settle their annual accounts within 2, 3 minutes. He will be able to do so within 2, 3 minutes, using a channel he knows well, which he can use, i.e. an electronic banking channel. We facilitate the use of this channel. However, we need promotion in this area, hence my question about the cost of promotion, encouraging citizens to use this electronic channel. I don't know how much that promotion costs. I'm sure it'll cost you something. But I do know one thing: the entry into this system of financial institutions operating electronic banking for 13 million citizens gives this promotion to the tax administration free of charge. It is due to the fact that these financial institutions, banks, SKOK-i In their electronic banking they will place such a bookmark, provide information to their customers about the possibility of using this form of settlement, show, teach their customers how to use it comfortably, perhaps not 7 million citizens will benefit from the online settlement of their PIT, but just 13 million taxpayers will benefit from this possibility. So there's a big benefit here from the promotion of this channel. We are building digital Poland. We are trying to get as many things as possible for our citizens to do without leaving the house, thanks to the computer, just clicking. We have to teach them that. It's a big task, and it's a cost, too. If the annual settlement of PIT over the Internet will teach bank employees, SKOKs, this will be a great help in the implementation of the plan for the construction of digital Poland. The fact that a given bank account will be an account to refund a possible overpayment, is also saved money for the budget, saved on a cash transfer. And we're trying. It is one of the objectives of our action to promote non-cash trading. Thus, this amendment in my understanding is not only necessary to achieve the purpose of the law, but also very useful for the construction of digital Poland and the dissemination of non-cash turnover. After saying all this, I would like to make an amendment to the wording in our report. The amendment that follows from the ongoing work of legislators, which is a better, legislatively better version of what our committee has adopted in its report. This amendment does not contain a substantive change, but, however, because of the protection of the purity of the law, I feel obliged to submit it. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. We've exhausted the list of speakers. For the record, Senator Bierecki has filed... [[Voice from the room: Martynowski.]] For the record, Senator Martynowski made his speech in the discussion on the protocol... [[Voice from the room: No. There was an amendment.]] The protocol first. Who made it? [[Voice from the room: No one.]] So I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Martynowski and Senator Bierecki. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law The text of the act is contained in print No 420 and the report of the committee In print No 420 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the Law on the amendment of the Law on Local Government and Local Government Act adopted by the Sejm on 10 February 2017. The committee held its meeting on 20 February 2017. Mr Tomasz Zdzikot, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and Mr Grzegorz Ziomek, Director of the Department of Public Administration, who are also present today. What is the purpose and subject of the bill? The purpose of amending the Law of 10 May 1990 is to adapt the article. 18 of this law to the provisions of the Constitution and to simplify the procedure for appointing members of the National Court of Justice. The Commission was established on the basis of Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act of 10 May 1990 as an appeal body against the decision of the voivods on the communalisation of property. According to Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The President of the Council of Ministers shall appoint the chairman and the members of the committee at the request of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration and shall determine the procedure for its action. The order of the President of the Council of Ministers of 7 May 1997 on the establishment and mode of action of the National Court of Justice set out the personal composition of the committee, the way in which the cases are dealt with, the rules for convening meetings and matters relating to the organisation and financing of the committee's work. The Act of 10 May 1990 and the said Regulation entered into force before the date of entry into force of the Constitution of 2 April 1997. The proposed amendment to the Act of 10 May 1990 aims to bring its provisions into line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland by transferring issues related to the mode of action of the committee and appointing its members to the level of the Act. In addition, a provision is introduced stating that the seat of the committee is the capital city of Warsaw. The amendment also provides for a change in the procedure for the appointment of the members of the committee. In accordance with the new regulations, the chairman and the members of the committee shall appoint and dismiss the minister responsible for public administration. The committee shall consist of six members, including the Chair. The amending act shall also specify what requirements must be met by the members of the committee. I'll give you an article. 2, which contains a transitional provision providing that the former members of the committee and the Chair shall carry out their duties until the Chair and the members of the committee have been appointed on the basis of this amendment. Art. 3 Novels, in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1a the Public Finance Act of 27 August 2009 sets maximum limits for budgetary expenditure, indicating the amounts of expenditure per year. The bill will come into force after 14 days. On 10 February 2017, the Sejm adopted an opinion on the law at its thirtieth meeting on the basis of a government submission. The Act raises no legislative objections. At a short committee meeting, 2 amendments were tabled, the second amendment concerning the guarantees of proper performance was withdrawn by the applicant. So there was one amendment left. The point was that, according to this law, the members of the committee are appointed and dismissed by the minister responsible for administrative matters and previously appointed and dismissed by the President of the Council of Ministers. Because the National Court of Justice, as the name suggests, After all, it is a national commission It considers appeals against the decision of the voivode, there has been such a suggestion that its legitimacy should be at the same level as the appointment of the voivode, i.e. that it should continue to be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers as a national committee. This proposal did not find support for the government side, the vote of 3 senators was in favour, 5 against. The entire bill was voted unanimously, all voted in favour of this law. So I recommend on behalf of the committee the adoption of the entire bill without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u150	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. I would also like to inform you, for the record, that Senator Łuczak made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the attainment of the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health care. The text of the Act is contained in print No 429 and the report of the Commission In print No 429 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u151	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Senate! On 24 February this year, the Senate Health Commission considered a law on obtaining the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health protection. I will briefly outline this bill, what it concerns. The Act lays down the rules for the establishment of a programme of specialised training in the field of health care, accreditation for specific training, supervision of the implementation of the training and control of the training, and the conditions and modalities for obtaining the title of a specialist in the field of health care, including traineeships and traineeships, as well as the organisation and conduct of the State Medical Examination in the field of health care. The current legal situation lacks provisions on the scope indicated. The Regulation of the Minister of Health of 30 September 2002 on the acquisition of the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health protection, maintained by the Law on Medicinal Activities of 15 April 2011, was in force until 1 July 2016. So right now there's a legal gap that makes it impossible to run exams and specialized training. It is therefore necessary to adopt the legislation under consideration today in order to regulate the rules for obtaining the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health protection. The decision of the legislator is not another amendment of the Law on Medicinal Activities, but a separate law which does not concern persons engaged in medical professions for which the rules for obtaining the title of specialist are laid down by the rules governing the pursuit of these professions. In accordance with the Act adopted on 24 February 2017, the title of specialist will be obtained in the case of: completion in post-graduate education of one-stage specialised training in the field of health care or recognition by the Minister of Health of the scientific or professional achievements obtained as equivalent to the specialization programme and the opinion of the State Specialist Examination. The specialist training programme shall be prepared by a team of experts and approved by the Minister of Health. The specialization training system consists of training units that have been accredited, included on the list introduced by the Director of the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre. The Ministry of Health shall supervise the conduct of specialization training through the Director of the CMKP, who shall appoint a special control team for this purpose. The qualification procedure for specialization training shall be conducted by the voivode responsible for the place of training. Overall, as indicated by the justification of the project, the existing solutions have been maintained, although procedures have been revised in the section on specialization training and examination. The aim of the amendments is to streamline and shorten the selection procedure. Transitional provisions allow for the continuation of specialisation training initiated before the entry into force of the Act. The quick entry into force of the Act is linked to the planned spring session of the State Specialist Exam and the deadline for submitting applications for this session until 31 March of this year. The law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. In advance of any questions, I will tell you what competitions are concerned. This includes epidemiology, medical physics, medical engineering, health promotion and education, clinical psychology, neurologopedia, public health, environmental health, toxicology, microbiology, pharmaceutical industry, radiopharmacotherapy, surdologopedia, as well as psychosexology and clinical embryology. The Senate Committee, Mr Marshal, requests that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u153	I support the bill and ask that it be passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u154	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the withdrawal from the Sejm of the draft law on the amendment of the law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. I would remind you that this project was introduced by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski. The project is included in print 410 and the report is published in print 410 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u155	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report by the Joint Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the draft resolution on the withdrawal from the Sejm of the draft law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The joint committees discussed this project on 21 February this year. The withdrawal of the project involves the possibility of endangering good neighbourly relations with other countries. A brief discussion ensued during the work of the joint committees, which divided the senators. It was followed by a vote. There were two proposals, including a motion for a resolution in the proposed wording, which was not supported: 9 Senators voted against 11 abstentions. There was also a motion to reject the resolution, which received the support of the joint committees: 11 senators were in favour, 6 against, 5 abstained. The joint committees ask for the rejection of the draft resolution on the withdrawal from the Sejm of the draft law amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a question to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant, Marshal Stanisław Karczewski, for a maximum of one minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u157	I would like to ask the Senator rapporteur what was the argument of the Senate Marshal for withdrawing the legal project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u158	Mr. Marshal, Your Senate, Mr. Senator, Marshal Karczewski wasn't at the committee meeting. [[I represented him.]] He was represented by Senator Mammoths. As I said, there was an argument that this could compromise Poland's good neighbourly relations with other countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u159	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u160	Were the names of specific countries for which... what countries were listed as those which might be affected by this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u161	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u162	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Mr. Senator, yes, these countries have been named: Ukraine, Lithuania, Germany.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u163	Are there any more questions? There isn't. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll split my speech into two parts. In the first I will refer to formal matters, and in the second I will refer to the substantive issues which are related to the draft resolution. For the first time we observe such a strange, unique mode in which we are to refer to a project addressed by us to the Sejm. I'll admit I haven't read about this mode before, maybe it was used, but probably in emergency situations. The Senate, as an applicant, withdraws after only two months from the project which it sent to the Lower House, i.e. the Sejm. Few of this, the application was submitted by the Senate Marshal, not by a person authorized to do so, i.e. by Senator Robert Mamytkow, who represented the Senate in the work on the bill in the Sejm. And as I said, very little time has passed since the submission of the draft in the Sejm until this resolution was sent and the Senate leaned over it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The question is, what exactly happened? What changed in the last two months that the Senate must, let's talk colloquially, the cancer withdraw from this resolution? Well, we don't really know what happened because the resolution wasn't justified. There is not a single word of justification in the text, and the justification that has just been given from the speaker cannot be called exhaustively. So we can only guess. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom because the noise makes it impossible for the senator to speak to you. You're welcome.]] All we can do is guess, but keep on talking about it. The question is whether we need to adopt such a resolution in order to achieve the goal that the authors of this resolution want to achieve. No, it's not. At the moment, the draft resolution of the original amendment of the law should be called short. The decounization, is in the Sejm and the Sejm is its host. This project, ladies and gentlemen, has passed the first reading without much tension on the committee. There was Senator Mammoths present, perhaps he will confirm that. With minor changes, rather legislative, technical, clarification, he was presented for second reading in the Sejm. At this famous meeting of mid-December... the facts that occurred after the meeting was interrupted, as if they covered what was happening at that time in the Seym. And probably the day before the second reading of the Marshal of the Sejm, Mr Marek Kuchciński, withdrew this project from the session, he did so on a one-man basis, without consulting this decision either with the committee or with the Lower House in the gym. And in the Seym, ladies and gentlemen, there are several different possibilities at the moment. Both the committee and the plenary may make amendments which the most uncomfortable provisions of this project could remove could change. You can do almost anything with this bill. Not much, Marshal Kuchciński may ask the Sejm committee to draw up an amended report. Another solution: our applicant, Senator Mammoths, if he's actually here. I don't doubt that much; I'm against it. I don't know. I don't If one of the provisions of this project would actually compromise our relations with our neighbours, our applicant could, in the course of the work on this project, submit a request to the Sejm for a proper record. Why, then... As I say, it is enough to do so at a committee meeting or at a second reading of the applicant who represents us has the right to do so. Why don't you do it in the Seym, just try to do it with some weird mode that's really going to humiliate the Senate? I'm saying it with full responsibility. Why should we now, at the stage of the Parliament's work, withdraw from this project when there are simpler ways to achieve this goal? Perhaps the answer to this question is the fact described by some of the web portals, which was not discredited, namely that the withdrawal of the project from the second reading in the Seym took place after the conversation... Let's call it simple: after the intervention of the Ukrainian ambassador in Poland. If so, I find it very reprehensible, because it would indicate that... In the past, for a long time, because over 40 years, we listened to Moscow, then for several or several years Berlin, and now we have to listen to Kiev. Should this be the way both Chambers of Parliament of a sovereign state such as Poland should work? I'm leaving this for your evaluation. There is another element, perhaps a moment more distant in time and not so obvious, which can confirm my assumption that this is about humiliation of the High House. I'll remind you what happened at the beginning of July of the previous year. At that time there were several draft resolutions concerning the commemoration of victims of genocide in Volyn and in Eastern Małopolska, genocide carried out on the Polish population by Ukrainians. None of these projects could break through. It was pretty much the same situation as it is now. None of them could have gained, let's face it, political will to vote on their content. And then what happened? It was then that the Senate, perhaps less susceptible to this political will, perhaps more independent, was the first in the free Republic to call the crime in Volhynia and in Eastern Małopolska genocide. and in the title, and in the content of the Senate resolution adopted on 7 July of the previous year. When the Senate dared, he stood in the truth, so did the Seym. After two weeks, after this symbolic date of July 11, the Sejm decided in its resolution that the crimes of genocide were committed on Poles. I'm saying this situation is very similar. Now we have the Sejm's hesitations, only this time the Senate has to submit. Do we really have to? No, we don't. [[Then we're not going to comply.]] And perhaps sending it in such a mode, in a rather strange mode, and in such a form to the Senate's decision is to testify that the Senate is withdrawing from its intentions, from its views, and is to redeem its faults from the previous year. I hope the High House doesn't agree to that. I therefore express my fundamental opposition. Now on the matter of substance. All the novel we're talking about, this novel project... It is quite extensive, these are 3 bite pages of text. She introduces you, I do not know if you remember, I will briefly remind you of new names, new units, new names on buildings, objects and public utility devices. It also prohibits schools and institutions from giving names that refer to communism and other totalitarianisms, but it also contains a record that was the most contested... Oh, and above all, it refers to symbolic commemorations, which was not before, because we in the original law were referring only to names from that year. In this novel we are talking about symbolic commemorations, i.e. monuments. She's quite extensive, but a fundamental protest. I am talking about the discussion that has turned in the media, and in Internet forums, it triggers the wording of the proposed paragraph. Article 3 1 mother's bill. It sounds like this, I quote: "A different totalitarian system is considered in particular fascism, German Nazism, Ukrainian and Lithuanian nationalism, Prussian, Russian and German militarism. I was the author of this amendment to the novel. I'm not backing out of this amendment. The first issue is legislative. This way of introducing content, namely by stating that something is considered to be in particular, is often used in legislation. I have here, ladies and gentlemen, the titles of several dozen legal acts in which such a formula is contained. This is the opening of the directory. It's about the word "specially" but that doesn't mean that the legislator is equalizing and saying that: the totalitarian system is this And now it's swapping. Militarism, nationalism, etc. Because we all know that ideology is something else, and the system is something else. It's obvious. Just a question of how else to put it. In the simplest way, which is, incidentally, understandable to most of our citizens, because I consulted this amendment perhaps not with professors, but with those who feel this problem. [[Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes.]] I'm almost done. I'm just gonna finish my thought. [[Please.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is understandable to our citizens. It is only from the title of professor up that unfortunately begins a lack of understanding for its content. What does it mean to be considered in particular? This means that as far as the effects of this bill are concerned, such commemorations cannot arise. This means that just as we will remove from the public space commemoration crowned with a red star, i.e. those commemorating the communist system, we should also remove those commemorating Prussian militarism, German nationalism, Ukrainian nationalism, for example. crowned with trizub or the Iron Cross, because all these systems and ideologies were equally misplaced in Polish history, and in general ended in genocide. And that's what this amendment is all about. Of course, the effects of this amendment... I won't be able to talk about it again, maybe on the occasion of my next speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the effects of this amendment may have an impact on political issues, but I will try to convince you why, contrary to appearances, this will be a positive impact, just as the resolution adopted in July that year had a positive effect. We stood in the truth and nothing happened when it comes to Polish-Ukrainian relations. On the contrary, we are one step closer to the fact that Polish-Ukrainian relations are based on truth, because on something else they cannot be effectively and stablely based on.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u165	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Five minutes.]] [[Senator Żaryn checked in.]] Senator Żaryn. Okay, it's the senator... [[The lighthouse and then...]] Let's say, Three minutes, two and a half minutes, because you extended... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am speaking not only so that the senator may have a chance to speak again... [[Thank you.]] But yes, I've been expecting your word, thank you. I would like to say that this is undoubtedly one of the laws that order us both public spaces in monumental matters and historical memory issues, but in fact this is not only a sequencing dimension, it is also a protective dimension. As a nation in the 20th century, we have been subjected to such multidimensional acts of genocide that we should also think in terms of protecting us, our children, our grandchildren, against any possibility of repeating such acts and repeating ourselves in the atmosphere of today's negligence. I understand that was Senator Czerwinski's main intention. As always in such cases, it is also necessary to consider not so much the reflection of a given law in the external spheres, outside the Polish state, but, above all, whether the actual record fully reflects the idea whether it was perhaps too hasty and, above all, vaguely formulated. It's possible to predict... If it turns out that we will accept the proposal contained in point 10 of our agenda, I very much hope, Senator, that you will not break down and create a new legislative basis, which will cause us to be protected today against the real threats that arise from our history. I therefore strongly encourage you to reflect so humbly on the fact that perhaps there has been a mistake somewhere in the record. If so, let us assume that we will manage and both improve this law, which should enter into force as soon as possible, and refers to the non-violent writing of monuments after communism, and we will secure it as soon as possible. So that we don't neglect what we can do today Our national interests, which involve staying on this land of our children, our grandchildren, our great-grandchildren, those who will later accuse us, and we do not want that in free and independent Poland we did not do everything to give our neighbours, because we are talking about them, it is about them, a clear signal that we must not repeat bad fragments in history and relations with Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Czerwinski for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Do we now have to adopt, not a resolution that I object to, but this law that is now in the Sejm? Continuing my thought, I'll say yes, we should, and with such records. Why? Because if we don't put these entries in the text of the bill, they'll still come back, maybe not to us, but to the IPN. Please note that these monuments in public space exist. And it's the IPN that will decide whether or not to remove the commemoration data. And then what? The same discussion, which we here can not only analyse, but we can to some extent harden it and close it unambiguously, will repeat itself in the case of every commemoration. So let's give a clue to the IPN, how it should treat individual commemorations. The argument often raised by the opponents of this law in the way in which it is at the moment, opponents of such a project as it is in the Seym at the moment, is this way: not now, let us not irritate someone there, not now, too soon. So I'm asking, when? Is that when you... Time flows and neo-Banderism develops in Ukraine. There are called streets, there are resolutions taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are commemorations of Bandera, Shuchevych and others. Will it be easier for us to have bilateral relations when this neobanderism is established? Should we now warn the Ukrainians, or should we wait for it to settle down, and then gently knock on them? Well, think about it, it's completely illogical. If it works, it's now that this movement is reborn. There is an argument: it will prevent the Ukrainians from fighting the Russian side. And, ladies and gentlemen, what is the Russian side's argument, what is the saturated maybe not ideology, but propaganda? That they're the bandits fighting those green men in Donbass. So if we urge the Ukrainians, don't go this way, don't fame Bandera, do we act against Russian propaganda or Russian propaganda? For if we say, "Don't go this way, withdraw from the founding myth of Bander, UPA and the CNS, then we say, "Build your international relations, your history on something else, not on genocide." And then we're gonna knock the Russians' guns out of their hands. Well, these are logical arguments. And one last thing. If all this has not reached you, I would like to quote the person who should be a part of your authority, I am talking about the President of Jarosław Kaczyński. It was an introduction from the beginning of February, in which among others. He said: "The level of ignoring by the authorities in Kiev the genocide of our citizens in Volhynia and Eastern Galicia, and often of lying to their true course, glorifying the perpetrators, has exceeded the limits of acceptance. We support Ukraine's independence, the development of democracy in this country, but we will not give up the claim for truth. I'm totally signing those words. As for the suggestion of Senator Prof. Żarin, of course the bill must be passed, but perhaps, because no one is infallible, it must be changed to a more descriptive one, so that these adjectives of the Lithuanian, German, Prussian, do not irritate. Ladies and gentlemen, if she leaves the Sejm, we can do anything with her, we can change her as she should be changed. But let's not run away from responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u169	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich. [[How much time do I have?]] Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u170	I'll do it in five minutes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for your vote. Mr. Senator, I think this is paranoid. Well, now I'm going to defend the Polish state's right. There is some reason for the state that came from the debate that took place in the Sejm and in the government. You tabled an amendment that we did not accept, namely the Civic Platform rejected this amendment in its entirety. The Lord tells us some stories that the Senate is insulted by it, you are acting against your own minister. I'm just gonna tell you that this time we're gonna agree with the Marshal of the Senate and the government. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there's something called the state's right. I took part in the debate on genocide and indeed we failed to introduce a record of genocide in Ukraine, there was a record, which you all remember, of the signs of genocide. That was the point of the state. You are quoting Prime Minister Kaczyński in a situation where at the moment Polish policy is completely different in relation to Ukraine and eastern lands. We asked that there be no amendment, we rejected it. Now we're going to vote to reject it. As far as the bill on these changes you're talking about is concerned, she's needed. But I just want to remind you of one thing. The crime in Volyn, which has touched us all and our families, is a crime that requires the harshest judgment. However, I would like to remind you that if it were not for the letter of Polish bishops and if it were not for Willy Brandt and the meeting, we would never have renewed Polish-German relations. Because the crimes committed in our nation by fascist Germany are ten times greater than the terrible misfortune that occurred in Volyn. And now you can see, observing history and today's policy, that we have no better ally in Europe than Germany. Politics and historical politics are more than our emotions about the experiences of our loved ones. That is why I understand perfectly well the senator who, on behalf of the marshal, asked us to reject this amendment. Let's sit down on the real Relic Act of that time. I gave an example that was rejected; there are countries that leave these monuments around them. I don't know. The fence, the park, to say the least, we lived in such times, we were destroyed in this way, etc. We were enslaved. And now look at the situation your parents were able to deal with. That's what happens in places where we show... That's what happens in Germany. That's what happens in Spain. It is and it was so that we could see it. That's what museums are for. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, I think my time is up. I believe that we, as the Civic Platform, will vote against this draft resolution in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u171	Thank you very much. Your time hasn't passed, but thank you for the speech. [[Sorry, you should have pressed the button.]] [[It's not over.]] [[Voice from the room: Not over.]] It's not over. Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll talk even less, I'll try to finish my speech in one and a half minutes. I do not want to develop in particular this thread that appeared during the debate when we spoke. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with That this amendment is bad and that it will simply interfere with the adoption of this law. I suggested that the record sounds just like the Constitution. You turned it down. Today's situation is that the Senate has passed this bill to the Sejm. For me, it is not understandable why we should withdraw this law from the Sejm and why Members cannot simply improve it. If the Members of the Law and Justice, perhaps the Civic Platform, maybe other parties, recognize that these records are wrong, then they will simply have to be amended. This situation is a bit of a curiosity. The Senate runs the bill, then withdraws it. This situation is incomprehensible and I think it will be incomprehensible to the public at all. So I call for the lower House, however, to bend over this law and make appropriate amendments to allow it to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u173	Thank you very much. Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u174	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to thank Senator Fedorovich because he said what I'd like to say. There are times when our personal affairs don't matter much. There are important and more important things. This is one of the most important issues. There's a difference between neighbors, but there's a point to the state. And right now... Maybe it sounds high-pitched, but it does. We can't afford to ruin our relationship with just the neighbors that they are... not once has the word come out here... This amendment also includes the words "Lithuanian nationalism," right? And nobody said anything about it here. Ukrainian... After all, the main point about this law was that we wanted to eliminate the remains of communism. That was the basic purpose of this bill. This bill has been greatly extended. I agree with Senator Bear, who then pointed out to me that this amendment would undermine this bill. I misjudged it. That's the truth. And I should have opposed it then. I misplaced it, and it turned out to be a much more serious case than we thought. Today, from this speaker, I ask all of us to withdraw from this bill together, withdraw it from the Sejm and re-submit it. I'll see to it myself. And then we can discuss the inclusion of these amendments, but in a bigger forum. Let me repeat: I can only ask you to adopt this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u175	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u176	Mr. Senator Mammoths, I think I I can only speak for myself, but please tell me how it happened and why we're talking about it right now. The amendment we proposed should have been accepted, and it would not have been all the trouble. [[That's what happened, Senator.]] I know it happened, but we should get two lessons out of this. First of all, sometimes it's worth saying sorry, fellas, you were right and for the second time we will listen carefully. And secondly, when you vote, whether it's the first time or the second time, you always have to think about the Polish state right. That's what I'm proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u177	Thank you very much, Senator. We're having a discussion. I'm so happy for you. However, I would like to inform you that we are still going to have a rather long break for committee meetings before the vote. Senator Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I vote in favour of both of these solutions, which is your wish for a break, but also in the case that he presented here... Well, the Sejm took the initiative, mastered by the majority that he won, rather than briefly, the PiS. I don't understand why Senator Mammy's putting up a white flag for a decision he's already made. In a way that's made clear... I am thinking, here, of their colleagues who have wondered and tabled amendments, defending the position in which there was a certain truth. I'm looking at the biggest specialist in this area right now, which is Senator Zarin, a man who's been to the IPN. After all, the essence of the law on IPN, which also stems from the constitution, is the fight against totalitarianism, not against nationalism. For this reason, I share the position that Senator Fedorovich presented so beautifully here. There is no reason why the Senate should fight in the chest when it does not fight in the chest when it makes mistakes in other matters or when it improves different laws. I share the position expressed by Senator Bear and Senator Fedorovich, that the domain and authority, and even the duty of the Sejm, is to consider this bill. And I will vote in favour of maintaining the status quo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. I'm gonna have an announcement, but I'm gonna schedule a recess by 3:00. [[Can't it be any shorter?]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u180	Message one. The joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Road Freight Transport Monitoring System will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in the meeting in Room 182. And message two. Immediately after the end of the joint meeting of the committee in Room 182, the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances will begin on the examination of applications submitted at the Thirty-Sixth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Tax Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u181	Time-out till 3:00. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 29 to 15 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u182	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 416 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u183	Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, but I'm gonna give you a little space. [[Yes, yes, of course.]] After today's meeting, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendments. But there's a motion from a minority that you'll be presenting to Senator Augustine. He made this request with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u184	Thank you very much. I would ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Our conclusions go to two goals. Firstly, since so far the ZUS circular was such that the limit date which allowed the ZUS to investigate its debts back was 5 years, let's not make the situation of taxpayers, customers of ZUS worse. And the second team of amendments is that if we say that this is about situations where crime has occurred, then let's not break it down into other situations, which are also a crime, for example. to make false documents or conscious false statements. It seems to me that the intention was not to make things worse for those who have so far applied... And a group would, in my opinion, be in a more difficult position than before.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. Please, we are voting on a proposal to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you very much. Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 28 were against, there were no abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] The bill was adopted without amendment. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: a law on special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 422 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! At a joint meeting, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions discussed today the proposals made during the debate on 2 March this year on the Law on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law, and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to accept the proposals set out in points 3, 7, 9, 15, 26, 27, 29, 30, 32 and 33. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u188	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński presented his conclusions. In addition, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń was the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. I don't see anyone who's willing to speak. Thank you. [[Me.]] Mr. Senator. Sorry, I didn't notice. Please, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator Secretary, I...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u189	Everything's fine, Mrs. Marshal. Your marshal accidentally didn't notice, but the High House will notice my motion in point I, in which I appeal for the rejection of this bill, because... I will use the known and supported maxima experience, of course. What's the committee for? The Commission is then called upon to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh.]] ...when some institution can't do anything. The Commission, as always, has unclear competences. The Commission isn't needed. He's not gonna do anything. She's done. So I call for the bill to be rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Oremski... There isn't. Good. Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 30 for, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] I state that the Senate has rejected the motion. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 aims to ensure that the law not only deals with property located in the capital city of Warsaw and covered by the so-called. By decree of Bierut. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted against, 2 against, 81 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] I state that the Senate has rejected the amendment. Amendment 2 provides that the seat of the committee is the capital city of Warsaw. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 30 for, 55 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] I state that the Senate has rejected the amendment. Amendments 3 and 7 should be voted together. The adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 5 and 8. Amendments 3 and 7 change the system positions of the members of the committee in the rank of State Secretaries. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 Senators voted, 83 for, no one opposed, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] I therefore conclude that Amendments 3 and 7 have been accepted. Amendments Nos 4 and 31 should be voted in total, so that the members of the committee who took part in the contested decision do not participate in the proceedings, in particular from the request for re-examination. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 29 votes against, 54 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] I therefore conclude that Amendments 4 and 31 were rejected. Amendment 6 provides that the requirements set out in the provision must be met cumulatively by the candidate for membership of the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 28 votes against, 56 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] I therefore conclude that the High Senate rejected Amendment 6. Amendment 9 sets out the source of funding for the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 votes, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 9]] I therefore conclude that the Senate has accepted Amendment 9. Amendment 10 provides that the Commission's rules of procedure are to be determined by its chairman. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 26 votes against, 56 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 10 has been rejected. Amendment 11 removes the rule excluding the responsibility of the chairman and the members of the committee for the activities falling within the scope of office in committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 28 votes against, 55 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 11 has been rejected. Amendment 12. Amendment 12 aims to ensure that NGOs report to the members of the Social Council. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Zdrojewska, vote. And please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 28 votes against, 56 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 12]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 12 was rejected. Amendment 13 makes it possible to appoint members of the Council from among the members of the Foundation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted against, 27 against, 56 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 13 was rejected. Amendment 14 deletes the provision whereby the Commission's decisions and provisions are signed by its chairman. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 28 for, 56 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 14 was rejected. Amendment 15 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 84 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 15]] I state that Amendment 15 was accepted by the High Senate. Amendment 16 excludes the possibility for the prosecutor to take matters in order to secure evidence of or return the equivalent of undue benefit at the request of the chairman of the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 28 for, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 16]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 16 was rejected. Amendment 17 provides that the committee shall also carry out checks at the request of the person covered by the reprivatisation decision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 27 votes against, 56 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 17]] I conclude that Amendment 17 was rejected. Amendment 18 eliminates the provision that notices of initiation, decisions and other activities of the committee may be published in the Public Information Bulletin, assigning such an announcement of fiction to service. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Silence... Good. Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 29 votes against, 55 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] I conclude that Amendment 18 was rejected. Amendment 19 provides that the public announcement of decisions and other activities of committees and notification of proceedings may take place only if the committee is unable to establish the address of the party. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Silence... Good. Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 28 votes against, 55 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 19]] I conclude that Amendment 19 was rejected. Amendment 20 specifies that the publication in the Public Information Bulletin of notices of initiation, decisions and other activities of the committee is only of an additional nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 29 votes against, 54 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 20]] I state that Amendment 20 has been rejected. Amendment 21 introduces secrecy before the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Boris-Damięcka and Senator Golba... You're welcome. Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted against, 27 against, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 21]] I state that the High Senate has rejected Amendment 21. Amendment 22 provides that the suspension of the reprivatisation decision pending before the authority or court shall take place for a period of not more than 6 months in connection with the initiation of the exploratory procedure by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 28 votes against, 56 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 22]] I conclude that Amendment 22 was rejected. Amendment 23 replaces the term "legal views" used in the provision by the phrase "expression of law." Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 28 votes against, 56 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] I conclude that Amendment 23 was rejected. Amendment 24 eliminates one of the grounds for a decision by the committee repealing a reprivatisation decision or declaring a reprivatisation decision in breach of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 54 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, Amendment 24 was rejected. Amendment 25 is editorial and improves the readability of the rule. Who's in favor? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 34 were in favour, 49 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate rejected Amendment 25. Amendment 26 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 82 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, Amendment 26 was accepted by the High Senate. Amendment 27 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 84 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, Amendment 27 was accepted. Amendment 28 eliminates a section of the provision restricting the possibility of compensation or redress by persons occupying premises in Warsaw real estate and injured as a result of a reprivatization decision. Who's in favor? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, Amendment 28 was rejected. Amendment 29 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 84 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, Amendment 29 was accepted. Amendment 30 clarifies the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 82 were in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, the High Senate accepted Amendment 30. Amendment 32 is intended to indicate the correct reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 84 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, Amendment 32 was accepted. Amendment 33 also allows the State Treasury to be entered as owner next to the capital city of Warsaw in respect of real estate for which the perpetual entry based on the repealed reprivatization decision has been deleted in the register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna ask you to give me the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 35 were in favour, 49 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the High Senate has rejected the amendment. Amendments 34 and 35 are voted on together. They shall assume that the committee is to operate until 31 December 2018. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted against, 27 against, 56 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the results of the vote, amendments 34 and 35 were rejected. Amendment 36 extends the period of vacathio legis to 90 days. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 84 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, Amendment 36 was rejected. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 55 were in favour, 29 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 421 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u191	The committees recommend that the High House adopt amendments that have been accepted by the government, i.e. Amendments 2, No 4, No 7, No 8, No 9, No 10, No 11, No 12, No 15, No 18 and No 22. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u192	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Marek Martynowski, submitted their conclusions during the discussion. I don't see any calls. Thank you. We'll proceed to the... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're coming... We're gonna vote now. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. [[Voice from the room: What about the motion for rejection?]] [[Voice from the room: There was no...]] Amendment 1 makes it necessary to obtain... [[The voice in the courtroom: Mrs. Marshal, and the motion for rejection?]] There's no such conclusion. [[Voice from the room: No, there isn't.]] There isn't. There's no such conclusion. Amendment 1 makes it necessary to recognise as the receiving entity, in the case of transport involving liquid fuels, to have a licence for the marketing of such fuels. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 56 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, Amendment 1 was rejected. Amendment 2 aims to clarify the definition of the consignor by taking into account the cases in which the goods are moved in order to supply the goods after the goods have been transported. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one was. against or abstained from voting. [[Voting No 37]] I state that the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 4 clarifies that the monitoring system... [[Voice from O.R.: 3rd...]] She's been ruled out. It is only possible to vote on Amendment 3 if we reject Amendment 2. As Amendment 2 has been accepted, we are not voting on Amendment 3. Amendment 4 clarifies that the monitoring system will not cover all consignments of goods below 500 kg or 500 l in volume, as well as consignments of selected materials in small individual packages, even if the total weight or volume of the consignment exceeds those limits. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 84 were in favour, 1 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] I state that the Senate of Amendment 4 accepted. Adoption of Amendment 4 excludes voting on Amendments 5 and 6. Amendment 7 indicates the necessary data to be included in the document confirming the inter-stock transfer. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 were in favour, no one was. against or abstained from voting. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, Amendment 7 was accepted. Amendment 8 extends the scope of the exclusion of goods from the monitoring system to goods carried by all military and other designated entities by vehicles, and not only to goods carried by vehicles used by those entities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Bierecki, Senator Mammoths... You're welcome. Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 were in favour, no one was. against or abstained from voting. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, Amendment 8 was accepted. Amendment 9 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 41]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 9 has been accepted. Amendment 10 deletes the provision allowing the imposition of a security charge and the storage of a means of transport, the amount of which is determined not by common rules but by an agreement concluded between the tax authority and the private operator of the designated place. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Bierecki, Senator Klich and Senator Infantry... [[Voice from the hall: Ooh, they're talking...]] Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] I therefore conclude that the Senate has accepted Amendment 10. Amendment 11 clarifies that the principle of rounding up the maximum rate of charge should result from the substantive provisions of the Act and not from the authority to indicate that rate in the notice of the competent minister. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senators Bierecki, Komarnicki and Romanczuk... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 83 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 43]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 11 has been accepted. Amendments 12, 15 and 18 should be voted together. These amendments modify the rules on administrative responsibility. They assume that the imposition of a penalty may be waived not only at the request of the party but also of its own motion, and that the waiver of the penalty may take place in all cases provided for by the law, and not only in most such cases. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 83 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] I therefore conclude that Amendments 12, 15 and 18 have been accepted. Amendments 13, 16 and 19 should be voted together. They shall delete the provisions laying down the conditions for withdrawal from the imposition of a penalty. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 30 for, 53 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 45]] I state that the amendments have been rejected. Amendment 14 aims to reduce sanctions from PLN 5 000 to PLN 1 000 for not supplementing the data reported by the carrier. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 82 senators, 28 votes against, 53 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 46]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 14 was rejected. Amendment 15 has already been voted out. Amendment 16 was voted in conjunction with Amendments 13 and 19. Amendment 17 aims to reduce from PLN 10 000 to PLN 1 000 sanctions imposed on sending, receiving or on carriers who have not updated data or reported data that are not factually correct. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 29 votes against, 51 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 47]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 17 was rejected. Amendments 18 and 19 have already been voted out. Amendment 20 aims to define a general directive on the imposition of fines. Penalties should be imposed where there has been a reduction in the budget due to infringements or where the recipient of the goods has not been identified. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 Senators voted, 29 for, 51 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 48]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 20 has been rejected. Now Amendment 21, which extends the vacathio legis to 6 months. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 32 were in favour, 49 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 21 was rejected. Amendment 22 modifies the vacathio legis so that all provisions on the imposition of fines are included in the catalogue of rules exempting them from subsequent entry into force. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 79 votes against, no votes against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 50]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 22 has been accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 52 votes against, 28 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Senate Act No 411 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 is a consequence of the repeal of Article. 166 Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 80 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 52]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 1 has been accepted. Amendment 2 is a consequence of the repeal of Article. 37 Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 80 were in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 53]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 2 has been accepted. Amendment 3 introduces an amendment to the amendment to Article. 2 Against money laundering and terrorist financing in connection with the abolition of the division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 80 were in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 54]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 3 has been accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 81 were in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 412 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 79 were in favour, 1 against, no abstention. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. Thank you. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate printing No 414 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, 77 votes against, no votes against and no abstentions. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Public Finance Act. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Tax Code. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 432 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a report to the committee... [[Senator Frost.]] Please, Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u193	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The High Senate shall accept the proposals set out in points 1 and 3. That's the committee's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u194	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Marek Martynowski and Senator Grzegorz Bierecki submitted their conclusions during the discussion. No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety will be adopted, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 clarifies that the tax return drawn up by the tax office is only made available on the tax portal and that the taxable person accepts or rejects the statement through this portal and not in any way, e.g. by post. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voices from the O.R.: It's not working. It's not working.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's working. Please state the results of the vote. 70 senators voted, 70 votes against, no votes against and no abstentions. [[Voting No 58]] I conclude that Amendment 1 has been accepted. Amendment 2 introduces the possibility to apply for a statement using the IT systems of banks and cooperative savings and credit banks and indicates that the data contained in the applications cannot be processed, disclosed or used for purposes other than the transmission of the application, unless they are processed on the basis of separate provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 72 senators voted, no one was in favour, 72 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 59]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 2 has been rejected. [[Who submitted the amendment that everyone rejected?]] [[Voice from the room: Bierecki.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Amendment 3... I therefore conclude that Amendment 2 has been accepted... [[Voices from the hall: No, she wasn't accepted!]] Amendment 3 introduces the possibility to submit requests for a statement by means of the IT systems of banks and cooperative savings and credit banks and indicates that the data contained in the applications cannot be processed for purposes other than the transmission of the application, provided that the data which have been disclosed in connection with the execution of the activities set out in the separate provisions can be processed for the purpose for which they were transmitted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 73 senators voted, 72 for, 1 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 60]] I therefore conclude that Amendment 3 has been accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 73 senators voted, 72 for, 1 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Law on Criminal Tax. Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Local Government and the Local Government Act. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate print No 420 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 68 senators voted, 68 votes against, no votes against and no abstentions. [[Voting No 62]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Local Government and the Local Government Act. Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the acquisition of the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health care. The Health Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 429 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the courtroom: Mrs. Marshal...]] Senator Bielan, Senator Jackowski, Senator Rotnicka... Please state the results of the vote. 70 senators voted in favour, 70 in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 63]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on obtaining the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health protection. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the withdrawal from the Sejm of the draft law on the amendment of the law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. Let me remind you that the committees are asking for the rejection of the draft resolution, print no. 410 S. First of all, a vote will be taken on the committee's proposal in print No 410 S to reject the draft resolution and then, in the event of rejection of the proposal, to adopt a draft resolution submitted by the Senate Marshal on the withdrawal of the draft law from the Sejm, print No 410. [[Voice from the room:...Project resolution, right?]] First of all, a vote will be taken on the committee's proposal in print No 410 S to reject the draft resolution and then, in the event of rejection of the proposal, on the adoption of a draft resolution tabled by the Senate Marshal on the withdrawal of the draft law from the Sejm. We proceed to the vote on the motion of the joint committees to reject the draft resolution, print No 410 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[What a grave silence.]] 68 senators voted, 11 voted in favour, 52 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 64]] So I'm saying that the Senate rejected... No, no, I'm sorry... We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Senate Marshal on the withdrawal from the Sejm of the draft law on the amendment of the law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices contained in print no. 410. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 68 senators voted, 49 votes against, 12 against, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 65]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the withdrawal from the Sejm of a draft law amending the Act on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the thirty-sixth Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would remind you that the order of the next meeting, scheduled for 15 and 16 March this year, was forwarded to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Janina Sagatowska... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Because... the Senators, because the statements are now being made, please remain silent in the courtroom. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Comfort! Mr. Senator Fedorovich! [[No, it's Senator Comfort, he's guilty.]] I ask you to be quiet now, because statements are being made. [[Don't listen to this comedy guy, Mrs. Marshal. Really.]] [[A voice from the Comdiante's room?]] [[A tragedian.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, just a moment. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and State Administration. Dear Minister, We all want to build civil society, to activate local communities. We all know that activity contributes to the development of these smallest communities, especially when they seek to demonstrate their identity, their pedigree, their roots. Because without roots, there's no fruit. I allowed myself to make such an introduction in connection with the efforts of the village of Bieliniec in the municipality of Ulanów in the district of Niedanów, i.e. in my constituency. This village is trying to get a coat of arms. She acted on this matter to the then Minister of Administration and Digitization in November 2015 and received a reply that only a municipality as a local government unit could have a coat of arms, while the local government is only an auxiliary local government unit. I do not agree with this view, all the more so because I know that there are towns, villages in Poland, which, after the opinion of the Heraldic Commission, received the coat of arms. I know the village of Bieliniec in the municipality of Ulanów personally. She's unique when it comes to preserving her identity, her culture and her wealth. I participate there in many cultural, religious, economic, tourist activities. This activity is also due to the fact that the pedigree of this village dates back to very distant times, times of John Długosz. Herb was and is a trademark of medieval genesis associated with ancient knighthood. The possession of the coat of arms was reserved for rulers, states, lands and knights. In time, crests began to be used, among others. Cathedral chapters, religious assemblies, municipal authorities, universities, etc., so it was a wide range of entities, because, for example, universities... Minister, I am convinced that this proposal of mine, my support for the request of the village of Bieliniec, will gain recognition in the eyes of the Minister and the village of Bieliniec will get the coat of arms he is applying for. The relevant documentation is in the Ministry. And if they don't, of course they're willing to come to the ministry at any time to find out the details. I would like to thank you for understanding this matter and for informing me of the further development of this matter, because I am so strongly supporting this undertaking. I think that granting this coat of arms to the self-government support unit will also encourage other auxiliary units, other very small local communities to present their achievements, for example by having a coat of arms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u196	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Zbigniew Cichonia to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two statements. The first, addressed to the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs, concerns the problem of registration by persons entitled to obtain compensation for property left behind Bug, because contrary to the wording of the article. Paragraph 7 3, in conjunction with Article. 19 of this law, the voivodship offices refuse to register decisions previously issued by various kinds of institutions, namely the presidents of cities, and these are the chiefs of municipalities or leaders of other administrative structures, who once decided on the property of Zaguża, those decisions which have just stated that property has been left outside the current borders of Poland and which thus confirm the right to obtain compensation. They refuse to register where they have partially exercised their entitlement. This is contrary, in my view, to the wording of the article. Paragraph 7 3, which expressly provides for the registration of all entitled and therefore not only those who are 100% entitled to do what they are entitled to do. And let me remind you that this is the value of 20%. the assets left behind But also those who have already received some. Because there are people who, as part of this compensation, got e.g. apartment or other property, but still up to 20% they are lacking and have the right to be satisfied in this respect. Because the practice of voivodships deviates from this Article. Paragraph 7 3, in conjunction with Article. 19, I request that the Minister instruct the subordinate voivods and establish a uniform interpretation of these provisions. Because people feel hurt because if they are left out in this register, which leads the voivode, they regard it as a denial of their right to be satisfied, even though administrative matters are being conducted, they are in progress. As I say, they should be included in this register. Second Statement I am sending them to the Minister of Infrastructure and at the same time to the President of the National Bank of Poland. It's in the so-called case. Housebooks. It is known that in the previous system there were so-called. housing books, which were usually founded by people for their own children so that they would gain an apartment in the future. There was a fund-raiser on these books. At the time when the full contribution was paid into the apartment of a specific category, e.g. M1, M2, M3, etc., followed by the so-called. vinculation and it was established that such a person had the right to receive an apartment, that he already had a completely accumulated contribution and that he did not need to supplement it any more. As you know, there were huge queues to get this apartment and people have been waiting for years. Of course, a large part of this never happened, and she never got the apartment, and the money is still on these books. At the moment, there is only the possibility of obtaining some minimum compensation if they have taken e.g. building your own home. Otherwise, if they give it up, they get penny money. This is due to one flaw, namely that on the occasion of the amendment of the Civil Code in 1990, when the article was introduced. 3581, which introduced the principle of revalorizing liabilities by taking into account not their nominal amount but their real amount, so taking into account changes in the purchasing power of money... Then this novelty introduced into the civil code did not include - and that's on the basis of Article. 13 of those provisions which introduced the Civil Code Amendment Act This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, This defect was also recognised and, during the last term of office, the Members of the PIS applied to the Constitutional Tribunal for a declaration of non-compliance with the Constitution of this Article. 13 of these provisions, which introduce this amendment and exclude the introduction of a valorisation clause for these savings books. An application was submitted to the Constitutional Court, but unfortunately the Court did not have time to recognise it and, in view of the principle of discounting the procedure, to the extent that the application would not be renewed up to 6 months after the new elections. Because this is the procedure for proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal that there is a period of six months left to repeat such a request after the new elections, in the new term of office. I believe that, since it is obvious that this error should be corrected, the political situation has changed. Previously, we had only the opportunity to question this as a party which was not in power, we had the opportunity to challenge it only by bringing an action, or, in fact, by requesting the Constitutional Court to declare such a regulation incompatible with the Constitution, but now the Party of PiS has power It would be advisable to take a legislative initiative. For this can solve the matter much more quickly than the second application to the Constitutional Tribunal. Because you know how long these procedures are. Besides, I think it would be even more elegant on the part of us as rulers if we brought such a law at this moment. I also believe that the Minister for Infrastructure has a major legislative initiative in this respect. That is why I give this thought to the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u198	Thank you, Senator. And to speak, please, Senator Stanislaw Gogach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. My statement is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Minister! I was approached by the Union of Poles in Ukraine by the Branch in Slavut, asking for help in organizing the celebration of honoring the Sanguszko family in Slavut on the 100th anniversary of the assassination of the last prince, Roman Damian Sanguszki, by the Bolsheviks on 1 November 1917. The Sanguszkos lived in Sławut for over 200 years. Since 1703, thanks to their efforts, 25 companies have been established, a church, a hospital and professional universities, as well as a library of several thousand exceptional works. There were a lot of manuscripts there. He owes fame to the prince's family a dynamic development. At that time the city became a trading point in Volhynia, as witnessed by the king of Poland August III in 1754 by Magdeburg law. Prince Roman Sanguszko helped the insurgents of January 1863 who stopped and stayed in the woods of the Volyn Forest. The Association of Poles in Ukraine, the Sławut Branch, asks for assistance in the construction of the monument to the prince Roman Sanguszka and in the organisation of an international conference devoted to the respect for the memory of the Duke of the Sanguszko family in 2017. Minister, Poles living outside Poland give further proof of how important Polish culture is to them, showing how much they remember what is connected with Poland. And that is why I ask the Minister to take all possible measures and to assist in organizing celebrations dedicated to the memory of the Duke of the Sanguszki family in Slavut. I would like to know what action the Minister may take in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u200	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u201	Mrs. Marshal, the statement is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, My statement At the same time, the request to the Prime Minister to take his position concerns the situation in which the inhabitants of Red Jarzabine's settlement in Warsaw Targówek and several other settlements in the area were found. These people purchased from the developer of the apartment segments And paid the full amount into a special account managed by SK Bank's developer in Wołomin. The deposit to this account was intended to result, in accordance with the bank's declaration and the buyers of the apartments, in a photo of the mortgage from the land on which the estate was built. In this way, housing buyers would also become landowners, so that they could satisfy the demands of the banks that granted them loans for the purchase of housing. These banks agreed to grant loans on condition that they could secure them on land which would become the property of the residents as a result of the implementation of these promes. Unfortunately, SK Bank collapsed and the syndicate considered that the settlement areas already developed by the residents constituted a mass of bankruptcy and initially refused to implement promenades, i.e. to allow the uncharged separation of premises. Recently, he has changed his mind and is willing to do so, but this decision depends on the approval of the Ministry of Finance. However, the Ministry of Finance does not make any decisions by translating this into a complicated case. At the beginning of December, when asked by me about this matter, Deputy Minister Leszek Skiba informed that the Ministry of Finance was preparing a legal opinion and that it would be ready within a dozen days. It's been three months since then, and there's no decision. The Ministry of Finance refers to the syndicate and the syndicate refers to the Ministry of Finance. However, the inhabitants of these settlements are in an increasingly difficult situation. Banks that have granted them loans, unable to secure themselves on land to which the residents still do not have rights, demand additional financial collateral and even announce an accelerated repayment procedure. This results in additional expenditure and creates an atmosphere of uncertainty among residents who are helpless against the state bureaucratic machine. I ask the Prime Minister to take a personal look at this issue and stop this chuckle-dance. Hundreds of people who have fulfilled all their obligations have paid the appropriate amounts to the bank and have received the necessary promeses, cannot today be held hostage in legal expeditions between the ministry and the syndicate. Sincerely, Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-03-senat-36-2.u202	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking Senator Secretary to read the messages. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no messages, okay. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office in room 255. The Thirty-Sixth Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 16 minutes 08]]
