ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Members Margaret Golińska, Marcin Duszek, Arthur Sobonia and Sylvester Tulayev to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Artur Soboń and Mr Sylvester Tulaev. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Artur Soboń and Margaret Golińska. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Justice and Human Rights - immediately after the end of the votes, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - Infrastructure - hour 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Legal notice - hour. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Economy and Development - h.m. 12, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Foreign Affairs together with the Legislative Commission - hour. 2.30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 16, - Social and Family Policy together with the Committee on Education, Science and Youth - hours 4:30 p.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Countering and Addressing Obesity Problems together with the Parliamentary Panel on public health - hour 10, - Parliamentary Team of Lviv Friends - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Military and Territorial Defence - h.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: investments: Złoczew - exploitation of the brown coal deposit as part of the energy security of the country 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 12, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Team of Friends of Gdynia and the Little Tricity of Kashubian - hour. 18.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u3	Thank you, sir. High Izbo! I would ask your fellow Members to rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I would like to inform you that on 3 June Mr Władysław Bulka, Member of the Second and Third Sejm, died, as well as Senator V of the term of office. I ask Members to celebrate the moment of silence in his memory. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Legal Protection of Plant Varietyes. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Act on Radio and Television and repealing the Act on subscription fees. The project is printing 1497. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. At the moment, before we return to point 2 of the agenda, I would like to inform you that Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has made a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 point 3 (3). One requesting an adjournment. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] I think this is serious, ladies and gentlemen. At the last meeting, we heard government information about the torture and death of Mr Igor Stachowiak at the Wrocław Police Station. At that time, all parliamentary clubs except PiS clearly said that if this man, the minister, who for a year could not solve the case of torture and death of a citizen of the Republic of Poland, who had been mauling about it for a year, had honor, he would simply resign. [[You're a quitter!]] [[Calm down.]] Minister Błaszczak and Minister Zieliński turned out to be people without honor and did not resign. And in the light of the information we received yesterday, we know that the ministers in front of the High House lied, saying that the police didn't have those recordings. I therefore request a recess to give the Prime Minister a chance to continue this meeting after the Prime Minister resigns. [[Applause]] Madam Prime Minister, there are ministers in your government who have been muttering about torture and lied to the High House. You should dissuade them immediately. But that's not all. Opinions on mass events are issued by the police, not by the overseer of these services, or by the minister. The Minister, in public, says that the police will issue a negative opinion on Woodstock Stop, says he will be calling for a violation of the law. The Minister wants to put pressure on the police politically so that they don't give a positive opinion about Woodstock Stop because you're just afraid. You're just scared because that's where people meet to feel free. You're afraid of people who feel free. [[The bell, the applause.]] You're a minister without honor and a man who's afraid of independent thinking people. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Rysiek, he'll bite you out someday.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u5	Thank you, sir. I would like to remind you that I understand very well: the Member makes a request for a break so that the Prime Minister etc. But let me remind you that art. Paragraph 184. 2 reads as follows: Formal requests may relate only to matters on the agenda and to the proceedings of the meeting. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] So that I cannot accept your proposal as a formal application. [[Mr. Marshal, I object.]] Mr Jarosław Kaczyński with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In time... It's against the law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I would like to ask you not to take into account Mr Snapshot's request for the following reasons. In 2012 and 2015, 42 people died in police stations. Five people died during the administration of the Ministry of Home Affairs of Mr Schetin, which means he should resign five times. Also, remember Smolensk and who resigned for Smolensk. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Yes, sir!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u7	Thank you very much. We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws. I would like to inform the High House that there have been requests to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments in the discussion. In view of the proposal to re-direct the bill to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, objections were raised. I will vote on the proposal to reassign this law to the committee in question. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm will proceed to the third reading after serving to the ladies and gentlemen a list of the amendments and proposals tabled. The question is raised by Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this project, you want to colonize and subdue the National Council of the Court, which is the heart of the independence of the Polish judiciary, and you say that you are doing it on behalf of the nation. You are not representatives of the nation in this regard. You're not a nation. All you have to do is obey the laws that the nation has ordered you to do in the Constitution, so that you can keep the constitution you swore to, not break it. You are not a nation in this area. You are representatives, you are servants of the nation, and you want to be masters of the nation. You people are wrong about the people. You can't break the constitution so rudely. [[Applause]] Why do you want to destroy the independence of Polish courts? This is unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u9	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of proposing a government draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and some other laws again to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. 387 voted against - 12, 1 member abstained. That means, of course, the Sejm accepted the offer. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. In view of the proposal to re-direct the bill to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, objections were raised. I will therefore put the proposal to re-direct the bill to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights to the vote. Its rejection, I remind you, will mean that the Sejm will proceed to the third reading after serving to the ladies and gentlemen the table of amendments and proposals tabled. The question is raised by Boris Budka, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants: Why are you lying to Poles again? Why are you once again proposing a law that has nothing to do with judicial reform? [[Boris, come on.]] But if you're deaf to opposition arguments, experts, I'm referring you to Judge Johann's interview today... [[In the Gazeta Wyborcza.]] ...persons whom you, as a PiS community, report as an honorary citizen of the capital city of Warsaw, persons about authority, about which you have no doubt. It is extremely in line with all the opinions we present. What you're proposing is extremely stubborn justice. The politician, the Minister of Justice, will decide not who's the prosecutor, who's gonna be promoted at the D.A.'s office, but who's gonna have incredible power over the courts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't give power to the Poles, you take power over the courts...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u11	Thank you. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u12	...for yourself, so that you can write sentences on Novgorodska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u13	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal for a draft law amending the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws again to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. The vote was 392 against - 12, no one abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft law amending the Regional Financial Chambers Act and certain other laws contained in print No 1597. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Act on subscription fees and the Act on Radiophony and Television, contained in print no. 1587. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there were objections to the completion of the agenda by means of points covering the consideration of these submissions. These are according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put these items to the vote in turn to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 Adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda for the print report No 1597 will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of Article in this case. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We proceed to the vote on the proposal for a committee report on the draft law amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Regional Audit Chambers and certain other laws, prints No 1409 and 1597, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 244 against - 159. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for the first reading of the government bill on subscription fees. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on subscription fees and the Act on Radio and Television, print No. 1587, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. Two Members abstained in favour, 225 against - 177. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that the Sejm should listen in a joint discussion on the added points concerning the draft subscription laws of five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There will be a vote on the settlement of the dispute and I would like to put it before this vote. for a break so that the PiS club can withdraw its request to supplement the agenda with a point on the minimum remuneration of health professionals as it is awaiting consideration of... [[Where have you been for eight years? But where were you for eight years?]] ...because we're looking forward to considering a citizens' bill made by a quarter of a million people on the same case. In the same matter, a quarter of a million people have filed their bill. [[Six-year-olds? 2 million signatures?]] It was a good custom, but it was also common sense to consider projects relating to the same matter together. Yesterday, the representatives of the legislative committee asked the parliamentary majority to wait on this project. We only discussed this project at one committee meeting. There were suggestions from Members of the PiS to wait and that this project should meet with the citizens' project after first reading. Today is a quick request to complete the agenda. You just want to vote on the project and say that the citizens' project is already unfounded because there is a government project adopted. They're about the same matter. Of course, there are different rates for nurses, doctors, paramedics. The civic project is much more attractive. The PiS Club and the government were in no hurry to work on this project... [[Eight years.]] ...because he started it in March Ub. R., and now you can't wait for one meeting. [[Eight years we've waited.]] You just want to disregard a quarter of a million signatures on a citizen's application once again. Think about it. [[Two million signatures for six-year-olds.]] This break, especially for Mr Tarczynski, will be good for calming down. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[2 million signatures.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u15	Thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz also submitted his request. But in the same case? With someone else. Then we'll sort this out, and then I'll let you make a motion. I would like to inform the High House that the Senior Convention was held before the votes and that this matter was discussed. A request has been made against which Mr Kosiniak-Kamish has now presented and confirmed. I will therefore want to put it to the vote unless the Law and Justice Club withdraws. [[I guess.]] [[I don't think so.]] He's not backing out. Therefore, I will put this proposal to the vote, justifying the fact that the committee's report is already advanced, already is, all Members have it. This is a government project, and since every day - you can say that every week - this is an unnecessary delay, I thought it was necessary to really agree to this proposal. In that case, the request for interruption shall be accompanied by a request for inclusion on the agenda. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. As we have heard, as I said, there was an objection at the meeting of the Seniors Convention to the completion of the agenda for a second reading of this project. That's what I'm reminding you of, Art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm item on the agenda. I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for a print report No 1617. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The Health Committee's report on the draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical subjects, prints 1583 and 1617, will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 232 voted against - 172, 2 Members abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u16	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm also based on art. 184 I would like to ask for a break and a call of the Seniors Convention to complete today's agenda for information from the Minister of Defence about the results of the subcommittee's work in the Ministry of Defence until recently led by Mr Berczyński, and now by Mr Nowaczyk. Why? Yesterday's meeting of the Committee on National Defence, at which the report on the work of this committee was to be presented, was immediately cancelled. At the same time, we learned from the TV show that the results of the investigation presented on April 10th this year were, in short, falsified, lied. If we are dealing with some Smolensk lie mentioned in the public debate in Poland, that is the lie. This is the lie - omission of full analysis, expert expertise from the Military Technical Academy when preparing a report on the work of the subcommittee led by Mr Berczyński. Giving information about the truth about the results of the work of experts appointed by the Ministry of National Defence, and recruiting from among specialists and engineers of the Military Technical Academy is the High Chamber and Polish society, Poles simply necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u17	Mr President, this issue you have put forward here is also not on the agenda. [[The committee was there.]] [[The committee was.]] But I'm very sorry, sir, this committee is a committee, it's an organ of the Sejm, and the agenda is something else. I'm so sorry, sir. The committee is not the agenda. [[They don't know that, Marshal.]] Who here thinks the committee is the agenda? I'm so sorry, sir. [[Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz: Mr. Marshal, can you respond?]] Minister Antoni Macierewicz, you're welcome. Although I think it is, Minister, an unnecessary explanation. But here you are, if you wish, under the rules of procedure, a representative of the government always has the opportunity to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As often happens, the representatives of this side of the room mislead the High House and the public. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[They're lying.]] This meeting of the National Defence Committee has been postponed due to the fact that there are no experts in the country who are responsible for... [[Fear.]] [[The voice from the room: Berczyński is gone.]] Mr. Marshal, please keep those people quiet. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] who first ask the question and then shout out [[♪ The bell ♪]] So you can't answer it. At that time, unfortunately, there are no people in the country who are responsible for the experiments carried out. [[Because they ran away!]] [[They're gone!]] But today, the Committee on National Defence will receive 800 pages of expertise, and I hope that until the next session of the Sejm, when this meeting is held, he will examine, read and be able to ask reasonable questions rather than lies. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u19	Thank you, Minister. High Seym! I would like to inform you that, following the inclusion of the item on the agenda today, the vote will be delayed and will begin at 3 p.m. 20. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 mins 31 hours 9 min 33]] Please take your seats. or if you have other activities, about the transition, because we want to start the next part of the sitting. I'm reopening the session. However, before we proceed to the next point, I would like to greet the young people present at the gallery from the Primary School in Drawsk Pomerania with their carers. We wish everyone a pleasant tour of the Sejm and positive impressions from this place. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes, and that sharing the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. An additional question may not last more than 1 minute, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] and the supplementary response may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question will be asked by Mr Sylvester Tułayev on solving the problem of cross-border parental abductions, and the question is addressed to the Minister of Justice, while the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice will answer Minister Michał Wójcik. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u20	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Every now and then, there was news in the media about the so-called events. cross-border parental abduction outside Poland. The government's actions have also been presented many times and have been successful in solving the problems of individual families. The number of cross-border family disputes in the European Union has increased with the number of international families, which is currently estimated at 16 million and is constantly increasing. The number of international divorces in the European Union is currently around 140 000. per year. The number of unmarried children of international couples has also increased, and annually in the European Union there are up to 1800 child abductions by one of the parents. I would like to ask the Minister about the ministry's actions, especially in Polish-German cases, because we know that these matters are the most important. In particular, I would like to ask about those issues in which Jugendamt took care of Polish children, but I would also like to ask about other issues related to other countries, especially Polish-British issues. Unfortunately, Jugendamt is increasingly known for controversial decisions regarding the collection of children, among others. Polish families living in Germany or mixed marriages. The most common reason for this is the wrong conditions, the child's well-being at risk. Dear Minister, Jugendamt often took children away from families who had no such problems. At the same time, it complicates the situation of mixed marriages when one of the spouses is a German citizen and the other, for example. Polish. It is very common to favour a parent with German citizenship. I would like to repeat the question: Is the Ministry working to solve the problem of cross-border parental abductions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What action has been taken in this direction, and what are they based on, and what is their intention to do in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u21	You're welcome, Minister, to respond. [[Game in the O.R.]] And your Marshal Tyszka, if he's not interested, please transfer the call to the clowns, and if he's interested, I'm asking for a more peaceful conversation. [[I'm very interested, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the hall: It's about animals.]] But the subject isn't about animals. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u22	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, sir, for this question. The case is extremely sensitive because it concerns children. We always just have to follow the good of the children. These matters, and there are unfortunately more and more of them, result from the fact that such marriages, mixed marriages, are many. Indeed, I would like to say to you and your fellow Members that the Ministry of Justice has prepared a reform of the procedures under the Hague Convention in this respect, as a problem has been noted. The problem is, in principle, that the Polish citizen is often in a lost position, colliding in legal proceedings with nationals of other countries. These are extremely difficult procedures - I am talking about procedures under the Hague Convention - these are procedures in which civil elements, criminal elements, elements of international law appear. You have to have a lot of knowledge. You're right, but you still have to be able to defend that right from the legal side. Indeed, our citizens often lose when there are such disputes. Some take that they're right, because they're just right, and all of this has to be proved in court. The government has noticed this problem. When I took supervision of the department that dealt with these cases, I addressed the first steps to the national prosecutor. I asked him that prosecutors, as public-interest spokespersons, spokespersons of the rule of law, you might say, appear on every such case, in every case. This is an extremely important issue, because the spokesperson, who is the prosecutor in this case, can objectively, from the point of view of the public interest, assess the case in question. In this respect, guidance has been issued to prosecutors. This is a major change. In addition, I would like to tell you that prosecutors are involved in any such case, they are taking part in any such case which is taking place anywhere in Poland. But it's just one of the elements. Another important element is that we have noticed that such fragmentation in the courts that deal with these matters under the Hague Convention is very dangerous. It is three hundred and several dozen courts in Poland, regional courts. We have decided to prepare a proposal for a change in the fact that these three hundred and dozen courts will be replaced by district courts. It's not regional, it's district, which means we're raising it to a level higher. These 340 courts will be replaced by 11 courts. Only 11 courts in Poland will deal with these matters. As regards appeals: not 45 district courts, only one appeal court. There will be a department at the Appeal Court in Warsaw. It's kind of a specialty. In other words, not 10,000. The judges will deal with these cases, only on a national scale. It's important. Case two is a matter of solicitor's coercion. So I started my speech: these are very difficult things. Citizens often feel that they can defend themselves, and that is not the case, and that is why we will be proposing regulations, regulations on solicitor's coercion. The citizen will have to be represented by a lawyer. If he can't afford a defense attorney, if he can't afford one, then of course he'll get that public defender. This is another major change, something that hasn't been there yet. Case three is a cassation complaint, an emergency appeal, which will be in the hands of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, in exceptional cases. Today, the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General, even if he has the knowledge that he should intervene, actually has a very limited catalogue of possibilities. This is due to the fact that there is not this extraordinary measure, this tool, an instrument in the form of a cassation complaint. The fourth important point, namely the following fact. Because children in Poland are released after the first instance. Even if the ruling is unlawful, the child may be issued abroad in accordance with Polish regulations. This means that if a decision is made in the first instance today, the child can practically leave the borders of Poland tomorrow. We introduce the principle that in order for a child to leave the borders of Poland, there must be a valid judgment. This is an absolutely important change. What you asked me about the Jugendamt case. I would like to say that a few weeks ago I had a conversation with a representative of the German Ministry of the Family, with Deputy Minister Kleindiek. We talked about the Jugendamts. We were interested in two things. The first is the operation of the so-called. a letter from Polish foster families in diplomatic institutions. The idea is that children who have Polish citizenship should not be placed in foster families during proceedings where they will not have the possibility of preserving their national identity, i.e. a language, in accordance with the UN-Ows Convention, in accordance with Article. 8, which speaks on this subject. This is the first thing: if the child is to be placed somewhere, it is in Polish families. Case number two. The aim is to ensure that the provisions of the Vienna Convention are respected, i.e. that representatives of diplomatic services participate at every stage, including enforcement, in proceedings before the German institutions. There was openness. I must say, Minister, among others. led [[♪ The bell ♪]] to a meeting held several days ago in Germany, with representatives of the Jugendamts, all in Germany. It was an important meeting during which a representative of the Ministry could present our rations. We're taking this case very seriously. I would like to inform you that the project will soon be submitted. He is already in the process of inter-ministerial consultations, he is already after the conference and will be submitted to the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers, then to the Council of Ministers, and will soon be in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. I know from Mr Sylwester Tulayev that he will not ask an additional question. So we move on to the questions that will be asked by Members Tomasz Piotr Nowak and Rafał Grupiński, Civic Platform. It concerns the execution of the task on the ground. Construction of a pressing pipeline for the transfer of brown coal mining waters PAK KWB Konin SA to Wilczyńskie Lake. It's so complicated. Oh, my gosh. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment, and the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment will answer Mr Mariusz Gajda. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, please. As I have read the subject, there will already be a problem in this regard. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister of the Environment is subject to the National Environmental Fund and the Directorate-General for Environment. First of all, the rescue of Lake Wilczyński by NFOŚ, which is within the influence of KWB Konin, and where there is a dramatic reduction in water level, second, the adoption by GDOŚ of an environmental decision protecting production 7% energy of the country by PAK KWB and protecting several thousand jobs and the horse region. The environmental decision depends on the injection of water into Wilczyński Lake in order to save the lake, i.e. on the decision of the national fund. The Ministry of Environment will therefore decide on the energy and social security of the country. The Minister of Energy is inefficiently seeking a positive decision. Meanwhile, the National Fund rejects a fully documented application submitted by the Wielkopolska Voivodeship concerning the transfer of mining waters to Wilczyński Lake for the The National Fund has omitted objective facts about lowering the water pane, showing indifference to the dying lake and actions that can save the lake. The National Fund decides on the ecological disaster in the Konin County and does not make a positive environmental decision, which will lead to the collapse of the fuel and energy industry in the subregion and to the ecological disaster. Questions: What does this show? Why do decisions not take into account the State's energy and environmental security strategies? Is it because this strategy doesn't exist? Why does the National Fund disregard the opinion of the Minister of Energy and the Higher Mining Authority showing the necessity of this investment? Will the Minister for the Environment coordinate the work of his authorities to save the lake and enable the issue of an environmental decision to safeguard production 7% The country's energy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u25	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u26	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Thank you very much for this question, because this is a really problematic question. On the one hand, gentlemen, you are trying to make a new environmental decision on Occlusive Discovery, which will cause and deepen these phenomena, and on the other hand you are claiming that this national fund is responsible for the fact that this environment is not being repaired. I wanted to say very clearly: With previous environmental decisions, in general with decisions concerning discoveries, among others. Tomisławice's discoveries have not been taken into account... above all, there have been no reliable reports of environmental impact. They were unreliabilityally made, they were made circumstantially. And it must be recalled that this last decision These are the years 2008 and 2012. I was there, in the field, twice, I saw Lake Wilczyńskie, and I saw a dry section of Noteci 40 km long, whose drying is caused by the operation of the mine. There's nothing to lie about, sir. However, due to the fact that there were no reliable studies, there is no evidence of this. For now, that's presumptuous. Unfortunately, in previous years no analyses have been carried out and there is no evidence of who is responsible for this is the things, and therefore the mine PAK SA, I decode: Pątnów-Adamów-Konin public limited company, which actually produces about 17% electricity in Poland, did not perform its duties reliably. Among other things, as far as Wilczyńskie Lake is concerned, there was no set-up of monitoring, piesometers. So that at the moment one can presume - and this is very likely - that the lowering of the Wilczyński Lake Mirror is the result of the activity of brown coal discoveries, but there is no evidence of that. And that is the problem with the national fund, that the Wielkopolska voivodship actually applied to the national fund for the sub-fund of the programme, geology and mining, but from this sub-fund can only be financed such tasks as result from the harmful operation of the mine. Of course, the mine doesn't want to admit it, because if it did, it would have to make a multimillion-dollar investment, such as that. Powering Wilczyński Lake, because it would be an obvious damage to the environment, would have to make changes when it comes to the drainage of waters from the Tomisławice opener. And therefore, well, a strange case - this is what took place for the mine, for this producer, the Wielkopolska voivodeship. I understand that this is a concern for environmental protection, I understand that this is a social goal, but I ask the question: why doesn't the mine do it, why didn't the mine make such a proposal? She didn't, because she'd have to admit to doing the damage. And now there's the matter of the next environmental decision on Tomisławice's discovery. Once again, the report was not accurate. If the report on brown coal exploration says that it does not affect the environment, then it is not true. She's acting, even if you can see it from the problems that are with the water right now. This should be well written: that it affects, how it interacts and what compensatory measures to take. And that's why the businessman made it so that he wouldn't bear any extra costs. It's obvious. And here we have a contradiction, as if a certain blackmail, you can even say - on the one hand, you are asked to make a decision as soon as possible, because there is a threat of energy production, jobs are at risk, but on the other hand you do nothing to show what compensatory action will be. And again, this decision is going to be made, let's assume, in some time, a request to the national fund or to the state budget for compensation for the damage that is caused by this mining activity. The fact that such power plants, mines, must function, is without a doubt. And I do not wonder either the Minister of Energy or the Higher Mining Authority that they support this type of action, but they must be carried out in such a way as to minimise the impact of this activity. I wanted to say that, unfortunately, when I came to the ministry, the analysis was not carried out. Now we are just doing some analysis of the present state and we are going to think about how this situation is going to happen in some perspective, because it can't be improved very quickly, for example. In a 10-, 20-year-old perspective, fix it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u28	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am surprised by this extraordinary restraint of the national fund and ministry on the rescue of Wilczyński Lake. The open-air mines in the Konin region have been operating for decades, and you are indeed right that it is difficult to identify the guilty if the Lake of Silesia is not dry and Wilczyńskie Lake is losing water. And that is why the expectation of our and the marshal of Wielkopolska voivodship is that NFOŚ will protect the environment from environmental disasters, because that is what the fund is and must be driven primarily by environmental criteria that will enable the lake to be rescued. Do environmental charges, such as the Konin district - 20 million per year, do not predestinate to use this, partially returning [[♪ The bell ♪]] local communities to save Wilczynski Lake? You can give Tadeusz Rydzyk PLN 26 million for questionable geothermals, and you don't want to save Lake Wilczyński?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u29	You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u30	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the process of lowering the water mirror on Wilczyński Lake took place - as it just so happened, it is not the Civic Platform's fault - in the days of the Civic Platform in 2009. It was then necessary to take compensatory action, not wait for the level of this lake to fall, I do not remember exactly at the moment, probably 7 m. If it falls by about 1 m in a year, it means that there are extraordinary things going on. There are probably so-called. hydrogeological windows, through these windows, the flood of depression - I will not talk about certain technical details here - there is a lowered water mirror, so the water mirror is lowered in the lake. It does not dry, this water runs underground, although there were also droughts, and it applied. And I'm asking you why these actions weren't taken then. Why didn't anyone notice when the River Note Upper dried up in 2011? Where were the environmental services then? Only now that there's been a great deal of damage, is it required to repair this damage. We're gonna fix it, and I can definitely say this, but we have to tell you who's to blame. Let him who is guilty also share in repairing this situation. Here's the next line. The Member spoke about the contribution of the Konin Voivodship and the Konin County to the national fund. There are such towns, especially at power plants, brown coal mines, which actually make a big contribution, because there are the highest environmental charges. But after all, the idea of a national fund, a voivodship fund, is not simply to reimburse costs, but to promote even opportunities for all regions. And I ask: How can you compare this to what Lux Veritatis received for geothermals? She didn't get it for herself. She got it for geothermals. You ruined it, but now we have to fix it. And I wanted to say again very clearly that it started a little earlier, and now the effect is very visible and we are trying to save it now. We're gonna save it, but I was gonna say this -- not from this fund, because unless the fossil confesses to a mistake, this fund can't be used because it would be a violation of the law. But we're gonna save it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u31	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Members of the Kukiz club15 Jarosław Porwich and Jerzy Jachnik will ask a question about the objectivity of the case law in Poland - to the Minister of Justice. Deputy Attorney General Beata Marczak will answer. The first question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u32	Thank you, Marshal. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice how he evaluates the state of the case law in Poland, because there are hundreds of examples when judgments grossly violate the law. And in order not to be literal, I will refer to judgment 2/15 of the District Court in Choszczno and the already recognized appeal of the District Court in Szczecin concerning Mr Rafał Turlański and Grzegorz Kowbaj, who received five years of imprisonment, being innocent persons. Well, I'm paying attention to that fact. I won't talk about the details, because I don't have much time, but I will refer to the reporter's magazine, which is exactly where this case is presented. I had a chance to read the files. Well, it can't be that way, Minister, for the court to issue a sentence of absolute deprivation of liberty to the victim, because this victim - I just want to draw attention to this fact - bought by means of a notarial purchase-sale agreement the plot, and then fictitiously was accused by a person who was forced to make a donation. I'm talking about this because the Civil Code once had a rule that if the money was borrowed under a written contract, the refund also had to be made on the basis of a written contract. Then this code changed and for many, many years it has been the subject of any interpretation. On the basis of this judgment, I would like to say that there is a very large number of convictions in which victims are accused. Therefore, I wanted to know whether the Ministry intended to carry out or carry out such an assessment, even because the team itself [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the revision of the Constitution, he presented a number of such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u33	I'm asking the prosecutor to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u34	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the questions raised by Members of the Prosecutor General, the Minister for Justice, I would like to emphasise first of all that, in line with the wording of the article. 521 § 1 Code of Criminal Procedure Prosecutor General - Minister of Justice may bring an appeal to the Supreme Court against any final judgment of the court terminating the proceedings, and this is the case in this case. Cassation is an exceptional appeal which can only be brought because of shortcomings which are so-called. the absolute reasons for appeal or other gross infringement if it could have had a significant impact on the content of the judgment. In this respect, i.e. in the light of the finding of grounds for expropriation from final judgments of the courts terminating proceedings, the file of cases in which such final decisions have been issued shall be examined in the Department of the Court of Justice of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. This shall be done either by its own motion or at the request of the parties to the proceedings and their procedural agents, as well as by other eligible entities, such as the Presidents of the courts, the Chairs of the departments in the courts, or Members or Senators who intervene in the performance of their duties in the bodies and bodies referred to in Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Examination of the final completion of criminal and criminal proceedings often results in cassation in cases brought before the prosecutor general and taken out of office. For example, in 2016 195 cancellations were brought from final judgments of the courts closing proceedings, and in this year until 7 June - 110 cancellations. The number of exceptional appeals may indicate that a significant proportion of the final judgments of the courts are affected by the assessment of the public prosecutor-general and have an impact on the content of the decision in breach of the law. However, it should also be noted that in the other cases examined, and such is the majority, the grounds for referring an exceptional appeal to the Supreme Court have not been established. However, in any situation where such a statement is made, it shall be triggered on the basis of the applicable rules of cassation proceedings, which is the only legally regulated possibility for the Minister of Justice, the Prosecutor-General, to intervene in the law-impaired final judicial decisions. It is only by means of an appeal that the Attorney General may express an assessment of such a judgment in a particular case under examination, including an assessment of the court's behaviour during the examination of evidence of objectivity and impartiality at the hearing. The question raised by the Members of the Court of Justice of 6 June 2017 has not yet been examined by the District Court of Choszczno in the National Public Prosecutor's Office for the possibility of expropriation from the end of the proceedings of the final judgment of the court, since none of the parties to the proceedings requested this. Nor did we obtain from the office information that the final judgment issued in it was affected by a flagrant and significant influence on its content in breach of substantive law or procedural law. In view of the content of the question made by Members and the issues raised within them, it has now been decided to initiate the actions described under Article. 521 § 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, it will only be possible to take a position on the correctness and validity of the final judgment of the District Court in Szczecin, after a thorough examination of the material of the procedure. On the other hand, the preliminary findings, which were only possible during the current period, show that the proceedings in the case of the District Court in Choszczno initiated by the Indictment Act of the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 28 December 2006, in which the indictment was filed, inter alia. against Rafał T. and Grzegorz K., was placed under the official supervision of the then Prosecutor's Office of Appeal in Szczecin. By judgment of the District Court of Choszczno of 24 November 2015, the defendants were found guilty of committing the acts referred to in Article. 282 Criminal Code and Art. 13 § 1 of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. 282 The Penal Code, which is commonly referred to as the so-called. Robbery extortion to the detriment of the victim and his family. The legal right to appeal against this judgment was exercised by the defendants and their defenders, as well as by the defendant, his attorney and the prosecutor. Following the judgment of 1 February 2016 in Szczecin, the Regional Court of Szczecin partially amended the judgment of the Court of First Instance, including as regards the extent to which the sentence was imposed against the defendants Rafał T. and Grzegorz K., which was increased to 5 years and 5 and 6 months of imprisonment respectively. The District Attorney in Szczecin found this final judgment of the Court of Appeal to be valid. In conclusion, and at the same time referring to the fundamental issue which is the subject of the Members' inquiry, I must state that, for the time being, there is no reason to believe that the judgment in question is defective. Its correctness and validity, as I said earlier, can only be claimed after an examination of the file, which will take place immediately. However, it should be stressed that even when the examination of the case file would show shortcomings in the assessment of the evidence collected in it by the court, it is not possible to carry out an overall assessment of the objectivity of the case law in Poland on this individual case alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u35	And Mr Jarosław Porwich...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u36	I just wanted to ask you a question, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u37	And this in the second question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u38	That's the second question as the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u39	Good. So Mr Jarosław Porwich does not ask questions. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u40	The prosecutor, I wanted to know, because I don't know if I understood correctly - the file will be checked, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u41	This inspection has already been implemented. We've asked for a case file.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u42	Good. I'm talking about it because it's very important that the district attorney supervises this case. I think it's a good idea, and I think that's why the Internal Control Department was set up at the D.A.'s office to look into it. I took the liberty of analyzing these files, this case is really annoying. That's one thing. Secondly, prosecutors, you are not telling the truth about the fact that on the basis of one case, it is impossible to judge the judiciary, even though we, as a body for amending the Constitution in the judicial field, have passed on two volumes of the list of cases, I can remind you of the names here. Then I have a question. How do you view it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the fact that in Poland for 20 years there have been several thousand illegal convictions in circulation? Are you going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u43	Please, Madam Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u44	Thank you, sir. To answer your question, I would like to say that I've only been analysing this case on a case-by-case basis. On the other hand, as I said earlier, the Attorney General in 2016 brought out 195 cassations, accusing a flagrant violation of the law or other absolute reasons for appeal resulting in an appeal to the Supreme Court. Thus, the review of final judgments takes place in the National Public Prosecutor's Office on an ongoing basis. Since this case remained under the supervision of the former Prosecutor's Office of Appeal in Szczecin, the case which you have notified us of will first be examined by the Department of the Court of Justice of the Public Prosecutor's Office because, if there are grounds for bringing an appeal to the benefit of the defendants, the investigation should first be carried out by the Department of the Court of Justice, and if there are indications of a possible exhaustion of criminal offences involving public officials in the persons of judges or prosecutors, the internal affairs department may be notified, but it is only when we come to the conclusion that these judgments are indeed defective that they deserve to be dismissed and that there is a reasonable suspicion that the offence was committed in issuing those judgments. As far as the overall picture is concerned, as I said, concerning the final judgments issued and subsequently controlled in the National Public Prosecutor's Office, this review takes place on an ongoing basis, but I only deal with this one case because I have been authorized to comment on this particular case. At this point in time, I do not feel entitled to make a comprehensive assessment of the reliability, objectivity of judicial case law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u45	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u46	Therefore, if your marshal will allow...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u47	No, no.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u48	...please inform us in writing of the results of the inspection, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u49	Oh, I thought you wanted to ask an additional question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u50	No, no.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u51	...because I just heard about it, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u52	Your marshal, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u53	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u54	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u55	Thank you, Mr President, and the prosecutor. And we move on to the next question. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will ask a question on behalf of the Modern Club on government action regarding the European Commission's initiative to introduce a minimum wage in international transport. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Jerzy Szmit. Please, sir, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u56	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question is basically about the mobility package. On 31 May, the European Commission published a package of legislative initiatives on international road transport. These initiatives would improve the functioning of the road transport market and the social conditions and employment conditions of workers, but of course it is not possible to go indifferently alongside this proposal, and this is because Polish carriers carry out more than 1/3 of international transport in Europe, are extremely competitive and in Poland transport produces around 10%. GDP, employs about 1 million employees, so it is an important industry for Poland. Unfortunately, these new regulations would impose a number of obligations on Polish transport companies concerning the registration of working time and rest. These regulations would be applied if the driver spends more than 3 days a month in the country concerned. Of course, the question is how to count it. However, these regulations will increase the costs of Polish companies, increase above the costs that transport companies have in other local markets. This will, of course, reduce their competitiveness and probably partially result in their liquidation. However, the modern wants Polish carriers specialising in international road transport to be able to develop dynamically, so President Ryszard Petru of Modern Petru has spoken to many European partners, including Jean-Claude Juncker and Guy Verhofstadt, among others. with a proposal for a compromise and a request for a dialogue on this issue. We proposed, among other things, to extend this term - not 3, and e.g., I do not know, 10 days. Now I would like to ask you what, Minister, the government has already taken and plans to take action to adapt the proposals of the European Commission to the real conditions. What does the government intend to propose as its answer to these, should we say directly, unfriendly proposals for Polish entrepreneurs? I would also ask for an assessment of the chances of pushing through Polish proposals, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the government, as we know, has probably already done everything to lose its ability to form alliances in the European Union and to be seen in Europe as frivolous and undemocratic. So I would very much ask the Minister to present a realistic assessment of the chances of blocking these protectionist and harmful ideas for our transport companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u57	You're welcome. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Member, may I begin with the final part of your statement. I think that just such statements in the Polish Sejm, in the Polish Parliament, are detrimental to Polish transport, in terms of what is happening today in Europe. The Government of the Republic of Poland, the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of Ms Beata Szydło takes all measures to support Polish transport and to protect it on the European market. Such statements, which are heard in Europe, which are negative about the government and about the government's work in this area, are detrimental to Polish transport. I'm sorry to hear that from you. Now, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, let me answer a question that really affects a very important part of the Polish economy. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the actions of some of the European countries, which are really aiming at fragmentation of the transport market, international transport in Europe, have been visible for several months. This kind of vote on restricting access to the markets of European countries, I am talking, above all, about France, Germany, Italy or Austria, is raised, in principle, from around 2.5 years ago. These countries have taken different actions under their legislation, their ability to regulate transport. These actions were also noticed by both the Polish government and a number of governments of countries, which are very affected by the solutions of these great countries. There were 12 such countries at different stages of the coalition, there were 9. At the moment, talks are ongoing so that most of the European Union's countries - the opportunity - are opposed to those regulations that are proposed today. There's a conversation going on in this case. Today Minister Andrzej Adamczyk is in Luxembourg, where at the meeting of the Council of Ministers he will express the official position of the Republic of Poland on this matter. This will be the basis for a dialogue on the proposals presented by the European Commission on 31 May. And I can assure the High House, and I can assure you that in my efforts, the Government of the Republic of Poland will receive support, support and the opportunity to create coalitions with many, several countries of the European Union. On the other hand, the question was what the government has done so far. May I mention only the most important actions that were undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Poland, the Government of Law and Justice during the period during which we started our office. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction takes decisive action on the international and diplomatic arena to eliminate the negative effects of MiLoG and Macrona law in the case of international road transport. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk's speech at the Transport Council meeting in Brussels on 6 June was supported by many Central and Eastern European countries as well as Spain, Portugal and Ireland during the European Commission's deliberations. 11 countries of our region have sent a protest letter to Commissioner Violeta Bulc. In the Council, in the European Commission, she has taken action with which she has been abstaining for a year. According to informal information, they were to be frozen until the elections in France and Germany. It sent a further letter to the German Government requesting additional clarifications on the non-compliance of MiLoG with European Union law and the first letter to France on the non-compliance with European Union law. These were all the actions of the European Commission, which were primarily due to the actions of the Polish government, but also to a number of other governments that joined in this matter. This year Poland continues to monitor the European Commission's actions aimed at clarifying the compatibility of the German MiLoG law and the French Macron law with European law. We have therefore found that the European Commission is lobbying for France and Germany and among others. due to this year's elections in France and Germany, it suspended the transition to further stages of proceedings against these two countries. The Polish government will exert further pressure on the European Commission. This year we will continue to work consistently in this direction to counter above all the concept of social dumping applied to Poland, but also to a number of other countries. For my part, I will also say that not only are we active internationally, but we are also taking action within the country to regulate what really is the essence of the dispute with countries, with our partners in the European Union, the structure of wages for drivers. It is not so much about the amount, because the amount of wages is not so grossly different, but it is about the structure of wages, the structure of the parts that are covered, and the parts that are not covered. We are also doing a number of activities in this area. He stayed, among others. the Tripartite Group appointed. Road transport. There have already been four meetings attended by carriers, trade unions and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Family, in order to develop a new model of driver remuneration. Then, I hope, this main argument, which is directed against Poland, saying that Poland applies and supports social dumping, will simply cease to be valid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u59	Please, sir, ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, when it comes to this ability to create coalitions, do not accuse my humble person here that I am creating an impression in Europe. After all, it is the European Union and our European partners who repeat all the time, that they see that in Poland the state violates the principles of a democratic rule of law. That is not enough, they want to link the European budget to compliance with these principles, so I think that - I would say - we need to look at ourselves more. On the other hand, I agree with the Minister that, as far as these salaries are concerned, here the matter in my view is quite clear. Polish transport companies sometimes pay even higher salaries to our drivers than foreign companies in Western Europe. This is, of course, unthinkable if you look at it from the point of view of the European partners, but this is real, so that I welcome this internal work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, I have a request to the Minister to be polite to bring Poland's position closer: Is it just about blocking, what would be optimal, or are there other scenarios that you are considering? Question two: Are there still countries that apart from France and Germany can take individual protectionist action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u61	You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u62	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would ask you, however, that in this case, in which there is clearly Polish interest - I am talking about the situation of Polish transport - do not get involved in this discussion, in which, I understand, we have a uniform position when it comes to defending Polish transport - I do not imagine it to be different - not to pour all these accusations into the government of law and justice at this point, because they really harm us. It's just that they're particularly damaging to us, because here we're talking not about some tough, big rules, but we're talking about very concrete, converted into gold, into euro, actions that are just something that we have to defend together, i.e. I no longer urge you to defend here together, because it may not be possible anymore, but please do not repeat these arguments which are completely different. Here we have, I hope, a common opinion. However, I would like to mention one more thing. Well, one of the actions undertaken by the Polish government is to inspire the creation of a report which speaks about the impact of these actions by the countries - France and Germany - on international transport. This is a report prepared by three professors, Professor Raczkowski, Professor Schneider and Professor Laroche, Pole, Austrian and French. I'd also like to... This report is available. If you are interested, I will pass it on. At this point we only have a report in English, because in Polish the report has spread out, but in electronic form we can also transmit this report. I think he should show a lot, such a real, objective truth about the situation of Polish transport in Europe. On the other hand, the question about our negotiating strategy is this: this House, this place is not the right place to reveal how we are going to write scenario A, the scenario B or C scenario on such a difficult issue as multilateral international negotiations. Today in Luxembourg, I was talking about it. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk is talking about this. He is the person who sets out the directions, he sets out the strategies of our negotiations. I think that we will certainly be informing the High House of all that we can, so as not to interfere, not hinder these negotiations, because, of course, in every negotiation, each party wants to maintain a certain confidentiality, wants to have a position and only then disclose them in the course of further discussions. That, I think, is understandable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u63	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Anna Milczanowska and Mr Lidia Burzyńska from the Law and Justice Club on cooperation with NATO and threat from Russia. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. Minister of National Defence Mr Antoni Macierewicz will answer. I ask Anna Milczanowska for the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! After the last NATO summit in Brussels, you stated that the Eastern Alliance flank would continue to be strengthened. Constant tensions in the eastern part of our continent make it necessary to strengthen the defence potential of the Republic of Poland. In addition to increasing the military capacity of our country, ensuring security and peace in this part of the world requires the involvement of allies. NATO troops are already stationed in Poland in accordance with the provisions of the Warsaw Summit. However, the rise in tension associated with various border incidents raises the question: Is the Alliance's defence potential in this part Is Europe enough? In view of the above, I am addressing the Minister of National Defence with the following questions: Is the North Atlantic Alliance planning to further strengthen the eastern flank of the Alliance, and if so, what? Is there a planned relocation of further troops in the eastern areas of the Alliance? When is this supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u65	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Messengers! Thank you so much for that question. It refers to one of the most important issues faced by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who stood before the Law and Justice, before the President, and - in a hierarchical and appropriate order - before the Minister of National Defence, when we took over, we assumed responsibility for the security of the Republic, and this situation was extremely difficult at the time, because, and I am speaking as a member of the Committee on National Defence for many previous years, until we took over this responsibility of previous coalitions and the previous rulers did not put at all possible and realistic, that NATO troops and US troops would be in Poland on a permanent basis, guaranteeing us equality as members of the North Atlantic Alliance and guaranteeing us security. On the contrary, many times, and I am not talking about the Russian position, because it is quite obvious, I am talking about the position of representatives of the authorities, the government of Mr Donald Tusk or Mrs Ewa Kopacz, we were told that it is unrealistic that it will never happen, that it is impossible that it is contrary to some documents that were signed in the 1990s when Poland was admitted to NATO, and that, therefore, putting the issue of the permanent presence of NATO troops in Poland as a support for Polish defence forces and military security guarantees is a kind of stunning, adventurous, irresponsible political attitude. Of course, one might wonder to what extent such a position was due to the fact that some of the people who did this were family-related with former officers, whether it was the CSI, or with those of the Armed Forces who were still deeply rooted in the former system, in the communist system, and therefore their awareness was shaped in this way. This is a separate problem, to which we will still have to return, how much these governments, acting to the detriment of Poland, were dependent on the past of their members, MEPs, supporting people. That's, like I said, another line. For the president, Mrs. Beata Szydło's government, this case was absolutely top priority. We have spent not only a lot of time on this, but also a lot of very important political initiatives that were brutally attacked by the opposition at the time. It is obvious that strengthening the eastern NATO flank, strengthening the security of Poland, in order to be real, must be connected with the similar position of Poland in relation to threats, e.g. from the southern flank. The principle of solidarity had to apply. Therefore, the then Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz, i.e. I, decided that Polish troops would participate e.g. in exploratory missions to Iraq in support of counter-terrorism activities. This was an important element of the negotiations that led to the decision of the NATO summit supporting the eastern flank. But it wasn't just him, it was also a matter of the Beata Szydło government's decision to raise defence spending to 2% by NATO scale. Here, unfortunately, we are dealing with activities of media disinformation based on the contention, i.e. the identity of the wording of 2%, and we are forgetting, and indeed such a law was introduced by representatives of the Civic Platform, that we are talking about 2% the previous GDP, GDP from the previous year, which, given the steady economic growth, meant that this year it was usually less than PLN 2 to 3 billion. Meanwhile, NATO's defence spending calculation system has always referred to, and always refers to, current GDP. Such reinforcement, such an increase in expenditure was guaranteed in 2016 by the government of Beata Szydło. I am pleased to inform the High House that this was confirmed at the previous meeting of the Government in respect of both 2017 and the planned 2018 budget. At least 2% GDP will be released in 2018, as was the case in 2016, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For our safety. Thanks to this, the Battalion Bojowa Group is already stationed in Poland today, which consists primarily of American troops, but also of other NATO forces, and a heavy force of American troops is stationed in Poland. Moreover, in the meantime, the United States has decided to increase its commitment to the component of air troops stationed in Powid. And as we know from the public appearance of the American military commander on General Scaparrotti's Europe, the United States Congress is considering an increase in this military commitment, just as General Scaparrotti put it, for at least one division. This is linked to the constant efforts of representatives of the authorities of the Republic of Poland, I repeat once again, of course in the hierarchical order: the President, his diplomatic effort here is enormous, and other authorities of the Republic of Poland - the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, which is to indicate increasing threats to the Eastern flank, including Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u67	And here, Minister, we're going to put a dot because we have a second, additional question. We'll top it up in the second part, where I can extend the time...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u68	Marshal, thank you very much. I will try to use the time resulting from additional questions, because in order to fully highlight this issue...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u69	...because then I have the opportunity to renew.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u70	... a few more questions will have to be taken up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u71	Then I have the opportunity to extend, and already in this part it was extended by 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u72	Thank you very much, Marshal, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u73	So Mrs Lidia Burzyńska will ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Poland supports its allies as part of NATO Air Police, a mission to protect the integrity of the sovereign airspace of the member states of the North Atlantic Alliance, in which Polish multi-tasking fighters participate. Recently, news has appeared in the media about the flight of fighters from the airfields and the intervention of the Alliance forces in response to the flight of Russian aircraft at a short distance from NATO borders. I therefore ask the Minister to answer the questions: Is the threat from Russia still real? What was the course of the incident? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u75	I ask you, Minister, to complete the earlier answer and to answer this additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u76	Thank you very much, Marshal. First, if possible, a direct answer to the question of the Member. Its essence is what degree of threat is on the Russian side. It is regrettable to say that such incidents or threats - maybe it is better to say so, because the word "incident" minimizes in the public perception the scale of the problem - the degree of threat is still very high and events such as those you describe are really frequent. A lot, really. The activity of the armed forces, the air forces of the Russian Federation on the eastern front of NATO is very high and our forces, which protect the eastern flank of NATO, often have to intervene in the same way as in this case. Of course, it is never an intervention called kinetic, to such a degree of danger so far, but tension is continuous. I also want to talk about a case that is of crucial importance. We are almost on the eve of the largest exercises of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus, so-called. exercises Zapad-2017. These are exercises which the Russian Federation considers to be a response to the Alliance's defensive actions and defensive actions of Poland, which manifested themselves in the stationing of NATO forces and American forces in Poland. As you know, the presence of these forces is only defensive, but the Russian Federation itself, the fact that Poland chooses an ally and chooses its own armed forces, which allow it to station in its own territory, and not to listen to the unilateral Russian dictatorship - the same fact - treats as a challenge and treats as a reason for increasing its armed engagement. There are concerns confirmed by many international experts that it will be possible to leave part of the armed forces of the Russian Federation, which will participate in the exercises of Zapad-2017 in Belarus, to remain in the territory of the Russian armed forces. That would mean, High Izbo - and above all I would like to dedicate it to these politicians, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who countered the presence of allied forces in Poland - that approximately 180 km from Warsaw will be stationed the attack forces of the Russian Federation. This poses a real, high threat to Poland's security and had it not been for the presence of US forces and NATO forces, if not for the guarantee repeated by President Trump's new team, that art. 5 will be respected that Poland will never be left without cooperation and defence, that the United States is determined to increase its military and financial commitment - let us remind you that for this year additional expenditure from the United States budget of nearly $5 billion has been foreseen just to strengthen the Eastern flank - if not, then the increasing threat from the Russian Federation would have to be regarded as a real, serious challenge for the security of Poland. Fortunately, we have not only paper declarations until 2016, but we do have, today we are insured by the permanent presence of US forces, NATO forces in excess of two United States brigades, including one heavy. If we add to this that it is located in Poland, and more precisely in Elbląg, the international command, which coordinates the actions of all the allied forces on the eastern flank - then in Poland this command is located, on July 3rd it will be a solemn opening - if we add in this connection the role of the Polish Armed Forces in coordinating the efforts of the allied forces on the eastern flank, then we can say that for the first time in 70 years Poland in the military dimension is indeed safe. For this, I would like to thank the High House sincerely for allowing the government of Beata Szydło to do so, but above all, to the President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u77	Thank you. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform Club, will ask a question about the organisation of Air Shows in 2017 in Radom, also addressed to the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Radom City has been famous for air show Air Show since 2000. 42. Radom School Aviation Base hosts a world-class event. There have been times when most aircraft were assembled in one place on the base. You, Minister, announced the organisation of Air Show 2017 during your visit to Radom in 2016. I am a representative of the Radom land and I am anxious to observe the behaviour of the MON. I do not want to believe that these are political decisions, as the city talks about, not substantive ones, because there is no one in the Polish Army who would question the quality of air shows in Radom. That's why questions are born. Will air show Air Show in Radom be held in 2017? Will Air Force Command be able to organize them in time? What aerobatic teams are invited and who confirmed their participation in the International Air Shows? What's the fund-raiser like? And are there agreements with the city regarding the organisation of the event? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u79	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The case I'm about to say may seem marginal to you, but it was important and important in all the matters you asked. You said that no one questioned, especially in the Polish Army, the high standard of Air Show in Radom and the high standard of these shows. Yes, of course. I do not know anyone who would question the high standard and importance of these demonstrations for the Polish Army, for the Polish society, for our place in the air force community in the world, and certainly in Europe. That's it. That's it. That's it. But there's a matter that's being questioned, unfortunately, by the D.A.'s office. This is a matter of the rule of law for organising these demonstrations in the past, so far by previous organisers. On this matter, as you may know, I understand that you are deeply involved in these issues, so you should be aware of this... This is serious because the charges are corrupt. And now I'm going to go back to the essence of this question. Well, of course, High Izbo, of course, your marshal, of course, Mr Air Show 2017 will be held in Radom. There is no doubt about it from the Polish Army and the Ministry of National Defence. Moreover, since I took responsibility for the Ministry of National Defence, there has never been such a doubt. I confirmed this with my clear and unambiguous speech in October 2016. I hope that the Member remembers this speech. I regret to say that this speech had a direct reason. It was caused by my surprise, and even more than by my surprise, it can be said that a kind of surprise in relation to the positions that were formulated among former commanders appointed by the Civic Platform for those positions which questioned the performance of the Air Show in Radom. Ba, not only did they question that I would say so in private, but they also publicly stated that Air Show would not take place. If you don't mind, I'll read the relevant document, okay? With reference to the letter of 12 September 2016 on the request to present plans for the next edition of the International Air Shows, I would like to inform you that this project will take place on the occasion of the century of the creation of Polish aviation in 2018. Not in 2017, in 2018. This was the state of affairs when I took responsibility for this situation. That is why I made a clear decision that Air Show in 2017 will take place and that no application for 2018 at the expense of 2017 cannot take place. Hence it was not only my statement, but also the commitment I made at the time. The guiding thought, Mr High Izbo, this year's International Air Show 2017 is to celebrate the 85th anniversary of the victory of Capt. Franciszek Pebble and Eng. Stanisława Wigura in the international aviation competition Challenge 1932. The Air Show 2017 will be attended by separate forces together with military equipment presenting the potential of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and representatives of other countries invited to participate in the Air Show 2017, as well as civil aircraft. Participation in demonstrations of representatives of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, the highest state and local authorities, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and NGOs is expected. The highlight of this event will be the dynamic show in the air and the static exhibition of military equipment. The implementation of the Air Show 2017 projects is aimed at presenting the capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, as well as promoting military and defence in society, cooperating with the local community, especially the radom community and the entire Mazowsze region, and presenting the public, European and global, our capabilities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Despite the formal legal difficulties caused by the ongoing prosecution proceedings on the financing of the previous Air Show editions this time, in 2017, it will take place. I would like to remind you that from the point of view - I hope that this is no longer the case - the local authorities were trying to persuade the Ministry of Defence to limit this event to just one day. Until one day. I repeat, this will be a two-day event, attended by many foreign delegations and will be demonstrated with foreign military equipment, which I will exchange in a moment. Moreover, it will be an event that will not be ticketed for the first time, so that there is no doubt about financial transparency, that there will be no discussion about whether or not somebody has been illegally enriched. I repeat, the entrance will be free for all representatives of Polish society, of course mainly from the city of Radom.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u81	We're gonna do a dot here again so we can have an extra question, and the rest of it, in response.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u82	Okay, Marshal. I'll add that to the next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u83	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u84	I have an additional question, although I did not find out which teams were coming and whether the contracts were signed. I have another question: Why didn't you sign the agreement agreed by the city of Radom and the military in April 2017? Is it true that the military doesn't have any hotel reservations while the Air Show should be held, which means the party's not gonna happen anyway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u85	I ask you, Minister, to complete the previous answer and also to answer the additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I did not want to go deeper into this matter, because I understand that for the Member who also represents, at least in some dimension, I understand, the Radom environment, it may be awkward, but the main cause was the confusion from the local authorities, and the people expect the event. People are expecting a party. I repeat once again, at the time you're talking about, it was assumed by the city authorities... The president of the city has declared that he approves, wishes, expects it to be a one-day event. We in the first moment... The Ministry of Defense said that it would consider it if it was the will of the local authorities, but of course when my representatives returned to the ministry, I made it clear that this must be a two-day event. It must have a full dimension. The full dimension. If you're asking... And that was the reason why the contract has not yet been signed, but we have all the documentation prepared and we are ready to sign it at any time. I hope that after this debate, after these explanations, after the situation that has taken place recently, this will happen very quickly. I confirm once again, the Ministry of National Defence is prepared in a logistical, legal and every other dimension, so that not only these demonstrations will take place, but that they will have a dimension that they have not yet had. I wanted to recall what teams had already come forward, except for Polish of course. So these are teams from Spain, the Netherlands, Germany, Lithuania, Romania, Ukraine, Austria and the United States. We are still waiting for the final response of the UK, Italy and Turkey. Today we have confirmed the participation of the following aircraft: Eurofighter, SAP, Su-27, C-27 Spartan, An-26, MiG-21 and - please pay attention, because this has not yet been in Poland - B-1 and B-52 and AWACS aircraft, which will be of particular importance. So one thing's for sure, it's gonna be a show. [[♪ The bell ♪]] about the momentum and dimension of the unprecedented, and guaranteeing from the military that admission will be free for all, not only will eliminate the possibility of corruption, which the prosecution suspects previous organizers, but will also give free access to a wide range of inhabitants of Radom, Mazowsze and the whole of Poland, who will want to participate in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u87	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question, namely the question to be asked by Members of the Law and Justice - Mr Dariusz Piontkowski and Mrs Bernadet Krynick - on the planned course and feasibility of implementing the S19 road in the Podlasie Voivodeship. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction and the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction will be answered by Minister Jerzy Szmit. Please, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The road S19 is a road that runs along the eastern border of Poland, to be part of a longer European route called Via Carpatia. The southern section of this route is already part of the implementation, while the section located in the Podlasie Voivodeship has so far had very serious problems. Only recently has it been included in the national road and motorway construction plan and there are serious problems regarding the course of this route, especially north of Białystok. The current regulation provides that the route from Białystok to the border with Belarus is to run through Knyszyn, Korycin, Janów, Sokółka and further towards Kuźnica. Local government officials from these areas request to restore the old plan of the road, much shorter, several dozen kilometers, through Black Białostocka, Wasilków, Sokółka to Kuźnica. This would, of course, require much lower costs to build this section. Recently, there was also a suggestion from the Podlasie branch of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways to supplement this with the quickest possible implementation of the section from the Białystok West junction towards the Vasilkov ring road, which would avoid the city of Białystok, relieve it from the transit traffic that appears there. The doubts about the course of the S19 route also appear in southern sections, especially the Bielsk Podlaski and Siemiatycz bypasses. Did the consultations on economic and environmental and technical studies raise doubts as to whether the bypasses of the cities of Bielsk Podlaski and Siemiatycze were to run east or west of these towns? Therefore, I would ask for an answer to the question whether there is still a possibility of correction [[♪ The bell ♪]] the planned route of the bypasses of both these towns according to suggestions of at least part of the inhabitants and when decisions on the route of the bypasses of these cities and the section north of Białystok will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u89	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with some information about the Via Carpatia route at all, because it doesn't start or end up in the Podlaskie voivodship and it's really its main value. Of course, it will serve Podlaskie voivodship, it is obvious, but its importance is not only important for Eastern Poland, but actually for the whole of Central Europe, so maybe some information about the course of work on this route not only in Podlaskie voivodship. It is therefore necessary to refer to the fact that the concept of Via Carpatia appeared because a chain declaration was signed in 2006 in which the dead played a very important role. Mr. President Lech Kaczyński. This declaration was renewed 10 years later, on 3 March 2016, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk gathered several countries, starting from Lithuania, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, former representatives of Turkey, but also other countries that declared the construction of this route, which is to connect the Baltic Sea with the seas of southern Europe, with the Aegean Sea, but also with the Adriatic Sea, if we talk about the branches that will be directed in the Balkans towards the Western Sea. I'm talking about just pointing out the great dimension of this tour and the fact that it's a giant undertaking. According to our estimates, the construction of the route in Poland will cost about PLN 30 billion in the territory of the Republic, so we have another giant project. On 18 May, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk signed documents that speed up preparatory work in the Podlasie Voivodeship area, as I will talk about, but also in other voivodships. Today we can make it clear: the entire Via Carpatia route in Poland is either already being implemented, either in the course of tenders, or preparatory work is being carried out, so on each section we can already talk about specific actions that are being carried out in this area. On the other hand, speaking of the sections that concern parts in the Podlaskie Voivodeship, on 18 May - what Mr Przeskaw asked - was signed the acceleration of preparatory work in the section Korycin - Knyszyn - Dobrzyniewo - Choroszcz, so that we can actually speed up this work. At the moment, in the section of Korycin - Choroszcz it is already an environmental decision, it is a very important document and it will certainly be taken into account to start the implementation of this section as soon as possible. Episode Choroszcz - Chlebczyn, south of Białystok to the border with Lublin Voivodeship. The investment programme was approved on 16 October and therefore preparatory work is also ongoing there. As for this episode, which is heading north of Białystok, the previous government has indeed changed its course, it is being strongly protested today. In order to allow for deep reflection, deep discussions on what is the optimal route, we have also made appropriate decisions, i.e. preparatory work is underway, the preparation of a technical and environmental study is ongoing, in which options will be defined, in which we can conduct this route further north of Białystok. This work will take a few more months and I hope that they will indicate the optimal option, which we will then implement. But as for the information that... There's another very important thing. Well, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk made a decision - it will be formally signed tomorrow, but it has already been decided - that a special team for the preparation and implementation of the Via Carpatia route in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction will be set up to implement Via Carpatia. So this whole route gets kind of a special surveillance status, special preparation. This team will be composed of the Director General of National Roads, the directors of the departments through which the Via Carpatia route runs, and if this is signed, I will have the privilege of running this team. So I hope that we will be able to immediately proceed to a very deep, but such daily work, because this is really the most important thing, this is the key to success, so that this implementation, so that supervision is permanent and ongoing. It is still extremely important that we seek - the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction - to ensure that we can first and foremost finance all these sections. Today, according to this programme and with this limit, we are still missing about PLN 15 billion, but I think it is such an important investment not only for Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not only for Eastern Poland, but also for Europe, that we will find appropriate means so that we can start implementing it as soon as possible. At the end of this part of the answer, I would like to say one thing that needs to be said here. Namely, the fact that we are at such an early stage of implementation results from the fact that for many years the S19 route did not really enjoy the interest of our predecessors. The work I'm talking about could have been, and it should have been, had to have been done a long time ago. Today we are actually starting from almost zero in parts of these episodes, which causes that unfortunately today cannot be said that in a year or two the next stages will go. We have to do all this, but these delays are catching up as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u91	And an additional question. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, also the Law and Justice Club, please. And I ask the Minister to remain on the stand to make it quicker.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Self-government workers, among others. from Sokółka, Czarna Białostocka, Wasilkowa, Sidra, Kuźnica, Dobrzyniewa demand immediate action by the government towards the formation of the S19 road from Białystok to Kuźnica. They emphasize, among other things, its major strategic importance at national and regional level. I have a question, Minister. We know that the S19 on this section is in the national road construction programme and highways, but are the funds guaranteed to build it? What is the planned schedule of work and when is it possible to really enter the building? Will the construction of this road take place in sections? And once again, the question about the S19 in the section from Białystok to Kuźnica: What will this course be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u93	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Preparatory work is underway on this subject, Madam President. I will repeat what I said by referring to the previous question by the Member. Well, our predecessors left us a completely different route, and this route is questioned, as you were gracious to say, by local authorities, but not only by local authorities, also by transport environments. In order to solve this problem, we need to prove that the proposed option, which is to be an express road, so with all these parameters, is to be a two-way road, a road in the full standard of the express road, that this section in another location will not be harmful to the environment. And actually, there's work going on today. We know that alternatives are being examined today, and I hope that from these studies and from this study, this study will indicate that it is also possible for the option that you are asking for. Then we will proceed immediately. On the other hand, as far as funding is concerned, the funds are guaranteed for this section, so I think that there will be no problem here when preparatory work is completed. So let us wait for the outcome of these works, because they will actually decide. Referring a little further to the previous question concerning the course of the S19 route south of Białystok and the question of how this route will serve the particular towns that you have spoken about, please, the work is ongoing. I understand that they are public, there is a public debate procedure, and I hope that these arrangements, which are conducted by the general management - because she is an investor - will take into account on the one hand all the needs and conclusions arising from local authorities or residents at all, but unfortunately sometimes there are environmental requirements or some other which objectively indicate the course of the route. But I hope that it is all that, as a result of this discussion - it is going on - we will find a solution which will also be economically rational, rational in terms of transport, and will be in line with the interests of the inhabitants of those places that you have mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u95	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Members of the Civic Platform: Mr Marek Rzęsa and Mrs Joanna Frydrych. The question is on the unprecedented scale of measures aimed at the customs community taken by the Ministry of Finance through the directors of tax administrations. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Minister Marian Banaś will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u96	May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u97	Yes, yes, sir, first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u98	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Law and Justice double-crossed Polish customs officers: for the first time - promising them a transition to the so-called. A full uniform, and now, ironically, stripping them of these uniforms, not much of it, formally eliminating the entire formation. Once again, we find that the so-called. good change in practice means purgatory, lack of standards, breaking promises, stalking those who have the courage to point out and defend the honor of the Polish officer's uniform. Competent persons with high qualifications are released without giving a reason. Officers are forced to retire, approaching retirement, to apply for dismissal. Many people have been severely reduced in their salaries. In some chambers this applies to up to 90% civilized officers, this does not apply to pay chimneys. They were released from the service of assigned customs officers, even though they did not cooperate with the Security Service and other assigned officers were civilized. An extraordinary scandal is the dismissal of experienced officers while hiring people without competence and experience, as well as the equalisation of them with customs officers with years of experience or even offering them conditions that are not available to ordinary officers. I therefore ask you, Minister: In connection with the scale of potential abuses, also mentioned in the letter of the Head of Trade Union, did you undertake to control the activities carried out by the heads of chambers in respect of: the criteria used for leaving or releasing officials from the service, the cases of mobbing and other arrogant, even illegal activities, which forced officers to take immediate specific decisions, the rules of appointment to high positions of persons without experience and competence, the reasons for transferring customs officers to tax authorities in the event of staff shortages in customs offices, the reasons and grounds for the legal secrecy of the team's work to deal with requests made by customs officers interested in serving in the cells of the fight against economic crime set up in the Podkarpacie Customs Office? And, by the way, I'd like to ask the Minister if you've already paid the invoice for your stay at the spa. This is very important information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u99	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, A few general remarks at the beginning. The government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the Government of Law and Justice has undertaken a very serious reform that was needed and should have been implemented 10 years ago, even before you took power in Poland. The effect of this reform is very positive. I would like to say that only in the first quarter of this year the increase in VAT collection has increased by almost 40%. In recent days we arrested five crooks who wanted to extort money, almost PLN 100 million, and organized a tax carousel on almost 200 entities. We continue to do so, we anticipate further arrests. These are the concrete effects that were not in the previous eight years, when you, uh, ruled your option. It's working. As regards organisational matters, I would like to say that we are acting in accordance with the provisions and provisions of our National Tax Administration Act, which was adopted during this term of office of the Sejm. The scale of the reduction is not very high, not as you are trying to present it here, not as you are trying to present in the media also the president of the customs union Mr.Siwa. Speaking of customs officers, I would like to remind you - many times I have emphasized in this Chamber - that in a situation of threat to the state of terrorism in June last year, 2016, when we organized the two biggest events in Poland, i.e. the World Youth Days and the NATO Summit, that is when almost 4.5 thousand protests took place at the invitation of President Grey. Customs officers. [[You're punishing them now.]] Sir, in addition to those conditions which are enshrined in the bill, there is one more rule - the principle of moral ethics and attitude towards the state. This is the way and method of serving Poland? To have a uniform and, regardless of anything, try to put the state, us, all citizens at risk from terrorism? Sir, if we're gonna hire these kinds of people and guarantee that they're gonna do the job properly... It's a big irresponsible thing to do. We are responsible for this and make a certain choice, we choose the most appropriate people who put the state's right and the interests of the state first, not their own. Because it was blackmail, it was all about getting all the officers back their pensions, and you know perfectly well that most of them worked for eight hours, just like any other employee. This is all the more important now that we have KAS and employees from tax offices. Although they have twice as much pay, they do not have this type of pension. So, what's the situation? Would that be fair? How are we supposed to approach this case? Knowing all this, customs officers were able to make such a protest as they put our entire country at risk. It was also one of the criteria that the directors certainly considered, because they were the ones who decided who was to be employed and who wasn't. And actually, sir, out of this number, 61 workers were de facto reduced to less than 4%. It's not a big scale at all. As far as pensioners are concerned, this is also a problem raised very seriously, and this is said by your president and the media, firstly, there has been no reduction of 10%. Only, as I say, 4%. Secondly, sir, we are a responsible government, and we are also looking at giving young people a chance to work so that they do not go abroad, to England and other countries, and looking for work there, because everyone who is leaving sooner or later, when he is there, does not return to Poland. [[But you have to respect your elders.]] Here, on the other hand, workers who have reached retirement age can live peacefully and work additionally, not necessarily in this institution. We must take care of our young generation, which is very important and which is not taken into account by you. [[So give yours, that's a good word.]] Sir, second thing. I explain that the directors of the tax administration are responsible for the implementation of human resources policy, in accordance with the provisions of the Act, and they are responsible for the work proposals. Neither do we, and we will be careful to see if there have been any irregularities. I'm not saying everything was okay. But it is for this purpose that we have set up a special team that will examine all these proposals, and we will correct it. There won't be any abuse. Those who commit abuse will be held accountable. I remind the heads of the KAS organizational units, many times, of making proposals on the basis of legal provisions, Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 7 Act on KAS, which obliges to take account in determining new conditions of employment or to perform the service of their qualifications, the course of their previous work or service and their place of residence. In addition, given the importance of changes in status, which relate in particular to officers, I would like to point out that the work proposals, the services for those who will change their employment status, among others. By letter dated 24 February 2017, the Commission informed the Commission that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the event of irregularities, as I have already said, it is possible for the panel to examine the case in the process of submitting proposals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] appointed Order No 35 of the Head of National Tax Administration of 13 March on safeguarding the rights and interests of employees and officers in connection with the implementation of the KAS. The task of the team shall in particular be to deal with requests from officials and staff concerning irregularities in respect of the proposals received by them. The team's opinion shall be a recommendation to the employer to change the terms and conditions of employment or service set out in the proposal submitted to the staff member or officer. Thank you very much. As for your last question, perhaps later. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u101	Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, an additional question. Stay here, Minister, or there will be an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! By the way, I'd like to add that Customs are watching this right now and I think they're laughing at these answers. Firstly, the tax, the increase in VAT collection - we all know very well that you have stopped returns for entrepreneurs, and we also know what the consequences are. My question is yes. On 25 January 2017, I sent a parliamentary inquiry No 2029 on the organisation of the work of the National Tax Administration. You answered me that the consolidation of the Customs Service units and the tax control in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship will enable the former employees and officers working or serving to carry out duties near their place of residence. You didn't mention a word to the Minister about the transfer of officers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to other parts of the country or job cuts. By the end of May this year. The current staff and officers were to receive new employment contracts. Unfortunately, you didn't deliver on that promise either. How, then, should Poles believe the current power in such a situation? I also ask you to answer the question: What were the Minister's reasons or what were the decisions on the selective presentation of new employment contracts for workers and officers, since they were all to be received by 31 May 2017? By the way, I'm asking you to answer the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u103	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u104	...or did you actually pay the invoice because you are the one who is required above all to be transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u105	I ask you, Minister, to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! First of all, it's slander, talking about discrediting me. I've been on treatment for three days, in a regular sanatorium, not some luxury resort, with my wife, not any companion and partner, as it's written about in the faction, and someone is... Secondly, I paid a much earlier advance, which covered all the costs. Thirdly, I took legal action against the newspaper, which published it and tried to slander me. That's all there is to it. With regard to the proposal - by 31 May, according to the Act, all employees who were to receive employment received it. The others did not receive, so by 31 August they still have wages, and after this period, when it comes to officers, they have a six-month briefing. January 1st. [[Three-month-old officers.]] [[Don't interrupt.]] No, six months...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u107	Member, but you are not written to speak. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Marian Banaś: On 1 January the law on uniform pensions will enter into force, so those who meet the conditions set out in the provisions of this law will have the opportunity to retire from uniform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u108	That group you mentioned, it's in that 4%. The ones you were talking about earlier, is this an extra group? You just mentioned that there's a group of employees who will still be employed by August. Are they in this group of 4%? The ones you were talking about, are they in the extra group?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u109	No, these are the employees in this 4%. and 2% who didn't get the offer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u110	Is that all, or is it still... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Marian Banaś: Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. And we move on to the next question. Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, the Law and Justice Club, on the issue of action by the Ministry of Health to improve the health situation of women - the letter is addressed to the Minister of Health. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u111	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The question will be very brief, and it is due to some kind of confusion that has been passing through Poland lately. The last meeting of the Sejm adopted a law on the provision of public-funded healthcare, which introduces inter alia. a procedure for emergency access to drug technologies in cases necessary to save the patient's life or health, as indicated by current medical knowledge. Unfortunately, in connection with the provision of ellaOne on prescription in this law, this important law has become only a pretext for opposition parties to re-frighten the alleged actions of the Ministry of Health against women. Following these voices, the media broadcasts put forward the thesis of hitting the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło in women's rights. They are repeated and fueled by local activists, often local government officials, i.e. individuals of public trust. As a result, there is great concern among women. In connection with these votes, I ask the Minister to make a clear reference to the allegations made. Is it true that the Ministry has eliminated - or has in its plan to terminate - the possibility of performing a C-section during childbirth? Is it true that the Ministry has introduced reductions in the valuation of neonatological and paediatric benefits? Is it true that the Ministry has eliminated or intends to eliminate perinatal standards in Poland? These standards in my view, completely private, should be not only women's rights, but also obvious. On this occasion, I also ask the Minister to present what actions or decisions the Ministry has taken to improve the health situation of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u112	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u113	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Members very warmly for this question, because indeed many very negative opinions have recently appeared in public space regarding the policy of both the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Health towards women. These were false opinions, sucked out of the finger, very hurtful, and above all unnecessarily disturbing opinions among Polish women. Therefore, I would like to make it clear that the government of the Republic of Poland has set itself the objective of taking care of women, pregnant women, children and young people. It's one of the most important priorities. This is very important in our priorities and we implement it with consequence and with great efficiency. And to prove that, I'd like to give you a few examples. Many prevention programmes are being carried out in relation to women - for their health, their procreational health, as well as women's health as future mothers. These programmes are financed through public funds at the disposal of the Minister for Health, the National Health Programme or the recently planned actions under the Procreation Programme. Also recently, through the work of the Minister of Health, care for pregnant women has been coordinated. So far, pregnant women have often traveled to various healthcare providers. Medical records related to pregnancy have not been fully transmitted. This caused various complications and irregularities. Thanks to the introduction of product harmonisation regulation, which is settled under the National Health Fund, so-called. coordinated care of pregnant persons, it is possible to carry out this provision in a coordinated manner. Allowed, improved access to care during pregnancy, among others. by equiping the midwife with the competence to conduct physiological pregnancy. This creates friendly conditions when it comes to pregnancy. A woman can meet a midwife under more friendly conditions, with whom she cooperates at any stage of pregnancy, and, if necessary, in the event of complications, she is immediately referred to a specialist's doctor. The next steps we take are actions for women who are already lactating. We know very well how important the issue of the child's natural feeding is, how it affects his mental development, how it affects his physical development and how he prevents civilization diseases in the future. Our government has created the basis for breast-feeding programs to be promoted, but not only. We have also created an institutional basis for this to happen, among others. Lactative clinics have been established, benefits - widely developed - are financed under the NFZ. We have also created conditions for the development of milk banks. Women who want to feed their children naturally, and unfortunately do not have the opportunity to do so, can benefit from professional milk banks, which have already started functioning thanks to the ministry's activities in the country. I would also like to point out that, on the occasion of this last law, which you mentioned, we have introduced a refund of medicines that are used in the treatment of oncology diseases, and which, in the case of breast cancer or ovarian cancer, have not yet been financed by public funds. It is this law, which at the previous session of the Sejm has been proceded and which has been slightly jammed by the aspect of introducing ellaOne tablets into it, that gives a great chance to women who are affected by the drama of oncology. We have introduced new preparations that are used at the beginning of oncology treatment, as well as those used for palliative treatment, which delay the development of oncology disease. These preparations are financed by public funds. This causes the survival of these patients to increase significantly. I would also like to address the question about the standards of perinatal care. Indeed, recent comments have been made that the Ministry of Health is removing standards and will thus bring the conditions of the birth certificate or the care of the pregnant person into the conditions that were in force during previous periods. I would like to make it clear that the standard of perinatal care is valid until 2018, while the Minister of Health has already taken action, setting up a team that is already working, a team of specialists, specialists in gynaecology, obstetrics and neonatology, developing new standards of organizational care for perinatal care. However, a doctor or dentist in accordance with the Act on the profession of a doctor and a dentist determines how to proceed. We know how fast and dynamic medical science is developing, so we have to keep certain medical procedures in the organizational standard. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by the Minister it could be pointless, because doctors are obliged to follow the recommendations of scientific societies, which are up to date with the achievements of world medicine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. The Member has not announced an additional question, so we are moving on to the next question. The question of introducing changes enabling municipalities, powiats and local governments to solve the problem of over-indebtedness will be asked by Members of the Law and Justice. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance and the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance will answer Minister Teresa Czerwińska. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz will be the first to ask in part, and Mr Jerzy Bielecki in the second. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u115	Dear Marshal! Minister! Today in our country, many local governments are facing problems of over-indebtedness. Very often this is the result of an earlier not very successful planning and spending policy, which often leads to an excessive budget deficit. Often local governments borrow loans in parabanks for a few dozen percent. The number of local governments in debt in parabanks is estimated to be at least 100, perhaps even several hundred. It would be reasonable to make efforts to strengthen legal mechanisms to increase the financial security of local government units. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, whether work is underway to strengthen the financial security of all local government units.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u116	And the second part, please, Mr Jerzy Bielecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The financial situation of local government units is certainly also affected by the debt of hospitals for which local government units are the managing and founding bodies. We all know how much the hospitals are in debt. Is the government planning to somehow support local governments, support hospitals so that hospital commitments can be reduced or reduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u118	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u119	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There are already solutions in the current legal system that protect local government entities from liquidity loss, solvency and are aimed at preventing uncontrolled debt growth. I want to talk about two, given the time constraints. The two most important are, firstly, the principle of balancing the budget. And here we are talking about the fact that the government at the planning stage of the budget is obliged to respect the principle of balancing the budget, which means that it cannot adopt a budget in which the planned current expenditure is higher than the planned current revenue plus the budget surplus from previous years and free resources. Local authorities are also required to comply with this principle at the end of the financial year. The second rule is to limit the possibility of borrowing debt. This is where the cap on the debt of local government units, as set out in the Public Finance Act in Article, has been applied since 2014. 243. The individual debt repayment rate is designed, among other things, to be used. Secure local government units from excessive debt levels, because this limit depends on the economic situation of the local government and also on excessive accumulation of debt payments in relation to the economic capacity of the local government. At present, repayment of loan instalments and debt support for a given financial year must not exceed the arithmetic average of the operating surplus technically calculated as the difference between current revenue and current expenditure plus revenue from the sale of assets of the three preceding years. The level of current expenditure is most affected by local self-government units themselves, as they are obliged to have a responsible, reliable, rational and economic financial policy. The design of the indicator, which limits the repayment of a local government unit's debt, does not limit the absorption of European funds for projects supported by these funds. The individual debt repayment rate is monitored and analysed by the Ministry of Finance on an ongoing basis. The financial situation of local government units shall be assessed on the basis of the data contained in the reports drawn up by them and in the multiannual financial forecast. I would also like to say that on the basis of the analyses carried out and the conclusions of the supervisory authorities, i.e. The Regional Audit Chamber, as well as the Supreme Audit Chamber, as well as the monitoring carried out by the Minister of Finance, have prepared an amendment to the Public Finance Act, which provides for, inter alia. increase the financial security of local government units. With regard to the draft law on the amendment of the Public Finance Act, which is currently being processed, where we have gathered comments and are currently analysing them, two solutions are assumed. The first option is to allow in practice the restructuring of the debt of local government units by repaying existing debt with new debt with lower costs. Thus, as a result of the local government units that have entered into, I would say more expensive commitments, and in the course of the repayment of this debt they have the opportunity to convert this debt into a more favourable one, of course as regards the cost of service, this is the possibility here. Secondly, early repayment of the debt in a situation of own funds. This proposal will allow the financial economy of the local government to be rationalised while reducing public debt and the cost of handling it. The second solution we have proposed in the Act is to strengthen the legal mechanisms to increase the financial security of local government units, among others. as a response to the results of the checks that I am calling for here today, i.e. taking into account, when calculating the individual debt repayment rate, those liabilities which have similar or equivalent economic effects to the loan or credit agreement. And here we are thinking above all about non-standard financing instruments. This will eliminate some circumvention, I would say, the debt ratio and thus increase the financial security of local government units. According to the Regional Audit Chamber, financial liabilities, which show a significant similarity to the financial consequences of credit agreements or loans, occurred in 290 local government units for a total amount of nearly PLN 1.5 billion. The inclusion of commitments that have economic effects similar to the loan or loan agreement, a reduction such as for loans or traditional loans, will prevent uncontrolled debt growth in the area of local government units. The current requirement for an opinion by the Regional Audit Chamber is also reinforced by the fact that we require a positive opinion on the ability of the entity to repay its debt. And it will be an additional mechanism to prevent excessive debt. This will strengthen the process of monitoring the debt of local government units and contribute to increased financial security. Here is one more thing - excluding free resources as a rule regarding the sustainability of the budget, as defined in [[♪ The bell ♪]] Public Finance Act in Article. 242 so that the entities do not incur excessive credit. I can say that it is now the case that self-government units are deliberately borrowing higher credits, which under this rule are added to income to generate higher expenditure. These practices are indicated by the NIK reports as well as by the Regional Audit Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u120	Thank you very much. Stay here, Minister. And Mr Jarosław Gonciusz will ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u121	Thank you. In fact, the Minister has already answered the additional question I wanted to ask in the first part. Nevertheless, I wanted to ask whether the reorganisation of banks in Poland, which is currently taking place, could affect the cost of service, the amount of interest charged by local governments...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u122	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u123	Thank you. I would like to say that when it comes to the costs of debt handling by local government units, the level of debt is affected primarily by self-government policy. And as far as what you are referring to is a possible increase in the proportion of foreign capital in the banking sector to Polish capital, the decision is on the side of the local government and it is difficult at this point to speak in a binding manner. So I believe that local governments, when they decide on loans and loans, analyze all available options in terms of rationality and economy. And this data on the increase in the cost of debt service is absolutely not confirmed. In addition, when it comes to the condition and service of debt by local authorities at all, which is related to this question by the Member, I would like to say that, as far as over-indebtedness is concerned, we have about 3% of local government units that could be at risk of financial stability, because so many local governments have a debt-to-income ratio of more than 55%. So you could say, when it comes to the financial stability of the local government, that here absolutely no threats would I see. On the other hand, I currently do not have detailed data. That's all on my side.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u124	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. The members of the Law and Justice Club will ask a question about the measures taken by the Ministry of Development to support the development of small and medium-sized cities. The question is addressed to the Minister of Development. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz will answer. The first question will be shared by Andrzej Gawron and Anna April. Maybe we should start with Anna April. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u125	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! While your Marshal has announced in this question issues relating to small and medium-sized cities, I would like to ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u126	Because that's the subject of your question, so I read it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u127	Yeah, yeah, exactly. Marshal, I would like to ask the Minister about issues related to larger cities and here refer to the Mazowieckie voivodship, because the Mazowieckie voivodship is the most diverse region in Poland. Next to Warsaw are cities such as former voivodship cities: Radom, Ostrołęka, Ciechanów, Siedlce or Płock, and both administrative reform and individual periods of EU funding have deepened development disparities between these cities and the voivodship city of Warsaw. I have a question: does the Ministry have a program for these cities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u128	Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Here in the Seym I feel as a representative also of these smaller towns, county towns such as Lublin, Kłobuck and Mousek. I come from this area myself. Unfortunately, the previous team preached such a polarizing and diffusion theory, as it was called, within which very large funds were pumped into these large cities, large agglomerations, 16 voivodship cities. Unfortunately, these smallest cities, small and medium-sized cities, have lost hundreds of such cities. Poland A and Poland B were created, with this division. I also ask the Ministry, especially what the government is doing, but to the Ministry of Development I have this question: What are the concrete actions, the plans to compensate for these development differences, so that now there is a greater flow of money, these budget resources, the EU for these smaller towns? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u130	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, To answer the question about... In fact, I think that two questions really concern one fundamental problem, namely how to prevent the loss of socio-economic functions by those areas in Poland that lost them despite their accession to the European Union, despite the first wave of structural measures that have significantly affected the development of major areas, mainly metropolitan areas, mainly voivodship cities, although we often point out that not all these cities, not all 16 voivodship cities have developed evenly over the past years. Indeed, the dominant model, the so-called one. polarizing and diffusion, has greatly influenced the development of the largest agglomerations in Poland. They are today's development lever, but the diffusion is not happening, i.e. powiats located in a significant distance from centres in which the relevant road or rail infrastructure has not yet been developed, are doomed to marginalisation. She mentioned that the disparities in the Mazowieckie voivodship after accession had increased dramatically. Before accession the difference between Warsaw and Radom and Pułtusk was two times, and today it is four times. This does not result from the fact that Pułtusk was not developing at all, but from the fact that most of the funds were actually located in Warsaw. Hence, in the Responsible Development Strategy, the response to this identified problem, dedicated to the so-called. medium-sized cities. There is also a distinction for them, which we have prepared on the basis of an analysis of the Polish Academy of Sciences, where we have distinguished a group of 255 medium-sized cities. We have many criteria, not only large, but if we're talking about size, they're cities over 20,000. residents or cities between 15 and 20,000, which are the capital of the county. This group, as I say, is still divided into two groups of cities, which are particularly affected by unemployment, whether lack of infrastructure or depopulation. There are 120 cities in this group of 255 cities. Public intervention will be undertaken in a special way in relation to these 120. What are the instruments gonna be? The first recruitments under all horizontal programmes, Eastern Poland Operational Programme, Infrastructure and Environment, Knowledge, education, development, as well as PO IR, Operational Programme, Intelligent Development started last week. This causes special, special preferences for those cities that can not only... Because what's the diagnosis at the same time? That at this point, we're not just about building roads and bridges. This is of course absolutely important, but this does not guarantee that these cities will not lose their social function, because losing their social function means e.g. the lack of attractive jobs, and the road is not a fundamental lever for such jobs to be created. Hence, this multi-purpose support programme, within which we dedicated not only European funds, by releasing this special financing line for these cities, but also in cooperation with the Polish Development Fund and established under the Fund for Local Government Investments, was set up an instrument to support large strategic investments for these cities. Our experience also shows that not only are resources the key to success, but also the ability to create good projects in these cities. Therefore, the Polish Fund has already started the first training and meetings with the authorities of these cities, also at the official level, with officials, so that they are ready to prepare good projects with a good, prudent financial assembly. Furthermore, we are aware that, as I said, the key is not only infrastructure, this hard road, rail infrastructure, but also attracting good, attractive investments. Hence the process of amending the Act on Special Economic Zones, which at the moment ended in the Ministry of Development, which gives special preferences to investors who will want to stay in the zones, and provides even more aid, to the greater extent of public aid to those who want to place their investments in these 250 localities. Furthermore, we are aware that we are today 2.5 years before the end of the current financial perspective. Negotiations are ongoing with the European Commission on the next plan and Structural Funds. In these discussions, we also dedicate special interest, as I said, to those areas which are in a clear development gap, and we are trying to negotiate in such a way that a sustainable support instrument is also enshrined in this next perspective after 2020. Referring in detail to the question by Mrs Mazowieckie voivodship, I would like to say that we quickly counted here, that on the list of these 250 cities 25 is from the Mazowieckie voivodship. This is very important support, because on today's map of public aid many of these towns could not reach for large public aid because they are in this voivodship, and placing them on this map gives the opportunity to reach for additional support. Therefore, both advice and broadly understood investment in hard infrastructure, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in educational programs - this is something that is a program addressed to medium-sized cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u132	The additional question will be asked by Anna April and Dariusz Starzycki. May I remind you that this is... [[No.]] Excuse me, Member. Only Members Jerzy Paul and Dariusz Starzycki, but this is one minute, remember. But before the question, I wanted to say hello to the students of Primary School No. 1 in Skala, district of Krakowski. [[Applause]] You have come at the invitation of Mrs Elżbieta Duda. I wish you a pleasant experience and pleasure to be in Warsaw and in the building of the Sejm. Please, Mr Jerzy Paul, and then Mr Dariusz Starzycki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We have one short question: Is the local government city plus the municipality, with a total of 22,25 thousand. residents, such as the city and municipality of Nowa Sarzyna, can be included in the government's strategy for responsible development in the future? I mean, the city, for example. 7-thousand plus the municipality will have a total of 22,25 thousand. residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have just been told exactly what the support for cities that belong to special economic zones will look like, and I have a question as to how investors in the cities of the list of 255 cities that do not belong to the economic zones will be located. Or, for example, There's gonna be some kind of program. supporting cities that do not belong to economic zones to enter these zones? Or will they be separate rules, and when they are available, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the cities concerned can get to know it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u135	I ask you, Minister, to answer these two additional questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u136	As regards the answer to the first question from the Member concerning the possibility of merging the city plus the municipality: 7 000. And in total 15,000, this program dedicated to 220 cities does not foresee such a variant. We actually did an analysis, pointing out specific cities that lose certain functions, and here there is no measurable parameter anymore, because this parameter was indicated at the level of research. On the other hand, our particular concern is those areas which, as I said, lose social functions, do not fit into any public aid maps because they are... Referring to the second question concerning the new zone law: when we entered special preferences for these 220 cities, special zones also indicated that we were in such areas as. voivodship Małopolskie, which has generally good economic indicators, drawn mainly by Kraków, but there are also municipalities and districts in its territory, where unemployment and infrastructure rates are very low. So we are working on another instrument dedicated to some particular case that would require additional support. The programme for medium-sized cities, as I say, is dedicated to 250 cities; it has one advantage, because there are always 5 or 7 other cities that are not in the basket. Why aren't they in that basket? If we want to check the quality of public intervention, dedicated resources, then well, let us also consider this programme as long-term, but still piloting. The effect of intervention aimed at 250 centres will be able to see, I think, after 1.5 years, 2 years in the perspective of further structural measures and then expand and model this. I think you can think of further incentives for smaller areas, so that, of course, in cooperation with the voivodships... Because let us remember that in principle intervention should be directed by marshals in whose territory the municipalities are, also the smaller ones. That's the first question. On the other hand, as far as zones and the principle of joining are concerned, as I said, there are many of these 250 cities that are not in special zones today and will benefit from special advantages, special measures. The new Act on Special Economic Zones does not mention that zones cannot be extended; moreover, we have already significantly simplified the enlargement procedure. I will remind you that last year all special economic zones were expanded, the time was shortened three times compared to how long it has been expected for the last 5 and 6 years; the record Katowice special zone was 4 years of waiting for enlargement. Therefore, these procedures have already been simplified [[♪ The bell ♪]] last year and you will be able to apply for an extension as much as possible if the criteria for e.g. quality of investment combined with high unemployment. Then such extensions will be as possible. The governance structure will also change a bit - more territorial than the one that is today, scattered - but local governments will be able to apply for these processes as much as possible. Moreover, the inclusion of local land in zones is much simpler and easier than e.g. private land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Current information. I remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on personnel policy will be discussed in companies with direct and indirect participation of the State Treasury, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin with this question: What are you afraid of, what are you ashamed of, or what do you have to hide? A few days ago, the government had taken a negative view of the Parliamentary bill submitted by the Civic Platform club, which assumed that clear, non-protected or non-confidential information was to be information on the remuneration of members of management and supervisory bodies and information related to membership of those bodies. In addition to the basic remuneration permitted by the apanage law, those benefits which, by virtue of the changes made in 2016, a member of the body may have received, include variable remuneration, benefits resulting from the use of the company's equipment, checks, compensation for the prohibition of competition, which, in total, if this were to be calculated, is basic remuneration multiplied by three times, it is said that this, I do not know, 90 or some thousand. On the basis of the proposed law, information on other sources of income is expected to be generated by persons who are employed in the bodies appointed to the corporate bodies of the company. The information that appears shows that such practice is not an individual practice, that someone, being a member of the supervisory board, is working for the company, thus benefiting from it. It would seem that there is no better control than social control, sovereign control. Then why don't you want the Poles to see what you want to hide from the Poles? The rulers have now adopted a kind of company management model, which can be compared to a kind of dagger, in which each player, the participant, overcomes a small section. Therefore, it would be good to inform Poles how much it costs each participant to do this, when the governance sometimes resembles children's or children's play, who have received the desired attractive toy. Participants of this project with anointing tear this piece of dress, as soon as possible, better. It took the power of the PiS in 2016 to introduce solutions that give additional remuneration, additional money to the Supervisory Board. No one, even the creators of the commercial code, thought of such benefits for the members of the supervisory boards. This specific relay, which he started, perhaps symbolically, a gentleman named Misiewicz, is determinedly continued, and as announced, Minister Sadurska attempts to do so. The relay is one thing, but the question should be asked why you defend these behaviours in these companies by introducing certain amendments to the company statutes. I will remind you of the amendment of the statute of the Polish Energy Group company dated 14 December 2016 or another failed, blocked by Tauron minority shareholders a few days ago. The queue for similar solutions awaits further stock exchange companies. After such changes is not an important interest of the company, it is not an important interest of the shareholder, but some mythical tasks are important. That's it. sanctioning anything other than madness, engaging state capital in unprofitable projects, simply adding money to inefficient industries or putting healthy companies and tens of thousands of people working there in trouble at risk of bankruptcy. The model of wealth management adopted by the current authority indicates a longing for a planned, centrally controlled economy or for unification. The classics, as regards the current wealth management system, will be addressed by one of the ministers, who on the one hand informs about the very poor condition of one of the companies, and on the other hand publicly addresses the board: Don't worry, I take it upon myself. In fact, from a formal point of view these are meaningless words, it is good for exercises for law students, but at the same time these words prove ignorance and lack of imagination of the speaker. But PiS's longing for the past is seen not only in this room or in opposition. The confirmation that PiS turns Poland back to the period before 1989 is two events. In times of well-being, people communicated, among others. by publishing houses which were issued in the second circulation, and here in April 2017 the Free Voice of the Printing Works was released in the second circulation of the Polish Securities Printing Works, a single-person company of the Treasury. This letter is the result of reflection on what is happening in the company. Such information by the employees of the company, trade unions was handed over to Minister Kowalczyk in October 2015. Employees concerned about the situation in the company ask for decisions to stop and reverse the negative direction for the company. April's number isn't an accident. The May issue reports the establishment of a Social Defence Committee for Employee Victims, known as the KOP, which organises assistance [[♪ The bell ♪]] and support for employees by economic operators, not any, but those owned by the State Treasury. It is therefore no coincidence that not only does the opposition question the adopted model of governance. Nor do people working in companies of the Treasury... [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u139	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u140	...knowing that the effects of good governance in the past can be squandered very quickly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u141	Thank you, sir. And please respond to the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers of Henryk Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! Of course, the charges you just made here, about earnings, supervisory boards, etc., fit perfectly, but with your governments. In fact, the earnings were unlimited - 200, 300 thousand. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] On the other hand, the law introduced in 2016 and now very consistently implemented in force causes that in all companies of the Treasury earnings together, I stress, with various apanages, which were previously very generously distributed, among others. such one of the apanasies were salaries on the supervisory boards of daughter companies, as regards the boards of mother companies... And this is the thing that led to excessive wages before. This law provides, and this is consistently implemented, for a prohibition on the remuneration of members of the boards of directors of mother companies on the supervisory boards of daughters' companies. And that's the important difference we've made. But I wouldn't just like to talk about wages, because this, of course, we can show very precisely in the table. And it turns out that these salaries were reduced by at least half, and in many companies even more, as a result of the introduction of this law. And this is reality, and the examples cited are probably about the right period of the past. On the other hand, what is the staff policy, but also the management policy of companies of the State Treasury, in particular, because that was the question, especially in the context of the introduced Act of 16 December 2016. Well, given that companies of the State Treasury can be the seat of various kinds of bad behaviours, we have introduced very wide control processes. Under the new regulations, the President of the Council of Ministers is the coordinator of ownership policy. Although the substantive responsibility for the operation of companies lies with individual industry ministers, the most important decisions are still subject to the appointment of the President of the Council of Ministers. And that ensures the safety of these behaviors. A company board was set up to advise candidates for the supervisory boards of companies of the State Treasury. This advice is intended to prevent all kinds of pathologies that have occurred during your governments very often. They may have also happened for our cases, but this legal design makes such cases go away. So far, since the new year operating under the law, this advice has assessed a total of 197 candidates, including 7 people negative, so it is not completely facaded. But the very functioning of this advice caused the representatives of the State Treasury to report competent persons and those who are not exposed to the negative opinion of the Council. The standards of ownership oversight have been raised significantly, the sale of shares has been controlled, the disposal of shares, which was unthinkable at all in your time, because it was a sale, a sale of any kind. Here is a very thorough control and even with greater values such consent must be given by the Council of Ministers in the form of a resolution, so the differences are enormous. Those huge differences... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I know this is inconvenient, but don't get upset, gentlemen. These huge differences, of course - because we can now shout out various arguments, whether it is a better solution or a worse solution - but these solutions are verified by the market and results. And that's probably the most important thing. Besides, the question was how this affects the performance of these companies, etc., so I just want to remind you that the results of the companies have changed dramatically in 2016 compared to 2015. And taking turns like that. In many companies these were results which were either losses or, if they were profits, they were very small profits. Examples. PGNiG - profit growth year by year may be small, 70 million PLN, but most importantly, there is a significant decrease in operating costs, so it is very clear that here these savings are much larger, which is a sign of management. Because the output prices here, being a natural monopoly, could be increased and made more profit. PKN Orlen - net profit increase by PLN 2.5 billion, by 78%. This is 2016 to 2017. Lotus - for 2015 the loss is 260 million, for 2016 the profit amounted to PLN 1015 million. [[What about ENERGY, Minister?]] I know numbers hurt, but listen to this calmly and carefully. [[Voice from the room: ENERGY!]] Polish Energy Group. In 2015, the loss...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u143	Excuse me, Minister. Members of the Platform, you may - excuse me, Minister - speak up and do not need to shout now. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: Thank you very much, Marshal. The Polish Energy Group had a profit of PLN 3 billion for 2015. Sorry, loss - PLN 3 billion, profit for 2016 - 2.5 billion PLN. Tauron - loss of 1800 million PLN for 2015, 370 million profit for 2016. Well, I could still go on. Enea - PLN 400 million loss for 2015, profit for 2016.850 million. ENERGY. Here the profit has decreased, although here, and here is the profit due to significant investments. Another one. The PZU Group - also a larger profit, not so much, but it is about PLN 100 million. Another one. PKO BP - a profit increase of PLN 250 million despite the introduction of a bank tax, where it was actually expected that this profit would be lower compared to 2015. KGHM, of course, continues to suffer losses, but these losses are not due to bad management, but to tragic decisions that have been made in previous years, including. with a very reckless investment and purchase of mines in Sierra Gorda, Chile. We're just glad we're trying to save it. Losses are much lower than in previous years, lower by PLN 500 million. I'll mention the coal companies. Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa had over 3 billion losses in 2015. In 2016, it had a profit of 4 million, but it was a job throughout 2016. Already in the quarter of this year, this profit is very important, so here it is very clear from what losses, more than 3 billion, has been realised. It can already be smaller but extremely characteristic companies, e.g. PLL LOT. For several years in this term, LOT has always suffered losses, and you have always thought about how to save LOT or not to save it, because I don't know what it was like to think. For the first time in many years LOT has profit and is still developing. PKP Intercity etc. Because time is slowly passing, I will not continue. If anyone's interested, I'll give you a table. This is the result of this management. This management is already effective, because in the first quarter of 2017 these results are even more impressive than in the whole year 2016, in which the results of this management were not complete. We are all aware that this was a process of making changes. On the other hand, the full effects of changing the management system, changing the management style and, above all, fair, I stress once again, [[♪ The bell ♪]] fair management of companies will be even more visible in 2017 than in 2016. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I therefore close the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Question time - two minutes. [[Not questions, just speeches.]] Thank you very much. It's time to say two minutes. Please, especially Members of the Civic Platform, do not exceed these two minutes. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no Mrs. Cicholska. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If we want to take a little closer look at these changes in the management boards of the Treasury companies, they have subjected this to a slightly in-depth analysis in quantitative and qualitative terms, in the case of this quantitative dimension you are beating records. I'm talking about the frequency of changes on these boards. We have examples of companies in which you exchanged three or even four boards within a year. If we look at this quality page, the qualifications and experience of the people you recruit, the Minister has just said so, it is not entirely facade. Given the effects, you can clearly see that you may not, but still. We are dealing with people who have neither the appropriate qualifications nor the experience they should have to perform such responsible functions. This quantitative and qualitative analysis clearly shows that we are dealing with a system solution consisting in paying out electoral commitments and buying loyalty to our activists. How's it going in practice? In practice, we have three months of work for such a Pisiewicz, then a six-month briefing. Even if we correct these accounts, Minister, which is what you just said, and our knowledge of the subject, it does roughly about 9 times 60,000, 500,000. zł. And there's another one coming in. I wonder how long the line is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Judging by what you're doing, it seems pretty long. It seems that this does not have a decisive impact on the functioning of these companies in the event of their results...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u145	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u146	...because we have a good economic situation that favors...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u147	Madam, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u148	...to obtain these results. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. Is it true that the Regional Public Prosecutor's Office in Wrocław is on the trail of a giant bribery scandal under the government of PO-PSL of 2014, which concerns that some of the members of the Management Board of KGHM Polska Miedź SA have revealed sensitive data for company quotations and its economic condition? Second question. Is it true that for television, radio, press and Internet advertising to pay for the friendly media, state companies on behalf of the apparatus of power in 2007 and 2015 spent a total of about 356 600 thousand. Evil? Third question. Is it true that the Polish Energy Group has filled the boards and supervisory boards of its companies with 50 PO-PSL activists? Therefore, these questions are probably enough as far as this item is concerned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u152	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! My question concerns the President of the Management Board of ENERGY SA with its registered office in Gdańsk. One of the requirements of the competition was the presentation by the candidates of a declaration that there is no criminal proceedings against them. I would like to ask if the people managing this contest saw this statement and what it was like. The reports are that the case is pending against former Uncle Pcimia, who became president of this company. I would therefore ask for a precise answer: yes or no. Dear Minister, I would also like to ask you about the so-called. breaking news that Mrs. Sadurska will become a member of the Management Board of PZU. Tell me what particular competence Mrs Sadurska has in the field of finance and insurance, because she seems to have none. Such rolling from one state institution to another seems to be quite contrary to what citizens expect. At the same time, it seems that this lady does not seem to have those powers, because her life story does not have any facts related to this business activity. It seems that people who manage such a serious property, which one of the strategic companies in Poland manages, controlling the vast majority of the market, having a huge impact on this market, should have any competence in this field. I would ask here for a clear and precise answer, which powers this lady has in the field of finance and insurance and in the management of such companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u153	Please, you have the floor of Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Zakłady Azotowe Puławy, one of the largest companies in Lublin region in terms of revenue and employment, thanks to activity, competence and giving by the present, the new management of the priority of common good over private interests is clearly successful. Firstly, Zakłady Azotowe Puławy obtained a zone permit for construction in the special economic zone of the new plant for mechanical granulation of the saltetry, which, according to the president of the zone, is sensational because it happened within 5 months, although from 2014 he applied for it and the previous management did nothing in this direction. The investment is growing, it is a modern investment, it will give modern products, it will increase the competitiveness of nitrogen plants on international markets, and it will also work for the good, in short, of Polish agriculture. The company ended the first quarter of this year with a net profit of PLN 138 million, revenues exceeded 1 billion and were more than 50 million higher than in the same period last year despite the high deconciliation on the fertilising market and the pressure of fertilisers from imports, as well as significantly higher prices of basic raw materials: gas - by 25%, benzene - by more than 30%. The Management Board has decided to abandon an extremely unfavourable investment concerning the construction of a gas and steam block, which, apart from the lack of economic effects, could pose a serious threat to the group as a whole. In the production area significant optimizations have been made in the last several months. For the first time in the company's history, the periods between the renovations of melamine installations have been extended, as well as records of urea and ammonia production have been broken with significantly lower parameters of fertiliser consumption. The Management Board of the Company has decided to terminate the employment of employees through a temporary employment agency. 140 employees, including production, [[♪ The bell ♪]] received employment contracts. It was associated with the acceptance of trade unions with an increase in wages and profits. Ladies and gentlemen, these examples...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u155	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u156	...we have a lot of effective and effective actions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u157	Madam, your speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u158	...which indicates that the board is effective and effective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u160	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today's information concerns personal policy in companies of the Treasury. The policy pursued by the PiS can be defined as a shortcut, which in the normal world is associated with solidity, security, comfort, trust, even mastery. Unfortunately, in Poland, the abbreviation BMW means passiveness, mediocrity, but fidelity. Corruption, nepotism and guys have spilled around Poland today in sizes previously unknown. High customer networks and nepotism are the pathology of democracy. Tall Seym, those are not my words. Thus in 2013 the present reality was announced by no one other than Jarosław Kaczyński. Changes in companies are natural when a new team comes. The point is that positions should include competent persons. And so it will be, because the government is preparing new rules of supervision in companies of the Treasury, said Beata Szydło asked about nepotism. She added just in case: I have a lot of friends. Professor Zybertowicz said, quote, that familialism and clientism concern the current power as before, except that the PiS has the will to steer the machine towards the public interest. He forgot to add that this public interest has a different name, or actually other names: Misiewicz, Kurski, Jasiński, Jaworski, Kraczkowski, and soon Mrs Sadurska will be joining us. This list of shames no longer covers hundreds, but thousands of people. The apothecary's assistants, librarians, watercolors, unemployed - of course with all due respect to all these groups - are now managing Polish defence, fuel, financial and chemical sectors. Lotus and Orlena even hired chaplains. Vicious people say they're gonna baptize fuel there. These people mostly, referring to the classic words of the visitor of the hall, thank the providence that the motherland was willing to return to them. Here, on this side of the room, Mr PiS, Minister, without embarrassment, in the light of the cameras, in the light of the day, they are juggling the CV of their colleagues, family members. I have my résumé for you, too. I have great experience, adequate education, outstanding achievements, I am a member of the only right party, I can do anything, foreign languages - I will deal with everyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am interested in every company of the State Treasury and 90,000. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u161	Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Minister, it is true that political nominations, the appointment of people without proper competence, without professional training, without proper education, are a sin that affects all teams after 1989, including the previous governments of the Civic Platform and PSL. But you haven't changed anything about it, and on the contrary, it seems that the list of people who are not properly prepared is even longer. As an example, I will give you an important company - Nitro-Chem. The media informed widely that the president of this company, a significant company operating in the defence sector producing explosives, a company that employs 400 people and whose turnover has already exceeded 150 million PLN, which exports its products to actually all continents, so far, for more than 20 years, was a man who passed all levels in this company - from a private employee to a CEO, so it cannot be said that it was a man from any political nomination. Who replaced him? Ladies and gentlemen, he has been replaced by a man who has so far been involved in the sale of fish, the establishment of aquariums and the cleaning of these aquariums. It is vain to find an experience on the CV of the current president that would predispose him to take the current position, i.e. the chairman of the board of a large arms company. Minister, as long as such practices continue, as long as we continue to deal with them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with such appalling, embarrassing situations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u163	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since the beginning of the year, titles in the press have been reported: Regional Transport Company for the first time in history with profit. Regional transport has been profitable for the first time in 15 years. Regional transport for the first time on the plus. In 2016, it was estimated that PolRegio, its current name, would achieve a profit of PLN 39 million. Today we already know that its net profit for 2016 amounted to 50 200 thousand. zł. So I'm asking you to answer the questions. How come, after many years of losses, the company made a profit? What's her financial condition? What does it look like in other railway companies? What is their financial situation? Regarding the statements of the previous speakers from the opposition, I have one more question. If it's as bad as they say it is, then why is it so good? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u165	Thank you very much. You have the floor of Marek Owa, Modern. No, I'm sorry, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! KGHM is one of the largest companies with the State Treasury. It operates through a subsidiary of Sierra Gorda. In this company, PiS achieved a record of staff changes. Within 18 months, he changed the board five times. The rate of change is unbelievable, and each of these changes involved payment of checks or compensation. How much was the compensation for the cancelled board members at Sierra Gorda? There was a time when the company was not managed by Poles and people from other countries. Isn't there an educated, well-prepared person in Poland to perform such functions? Here's another thing. Why a very important project in KGHM entitled: The talent mine, giving a huge opportunity to young, educated Poles, was completely abandoned by the PiS? PiS politicians' slogans about betting on young people turned out to be fiction. Don't we have young educated people? Yes, we do, but it's people who are connected to the PiS. These are the facts, unfortunately, the sad facts. The management body of Sierra Gorda, working in front of you from PiS, is currently working for a Japanese company, as they are excellent professionals. And in our company, constant changes, because they are employed on the basis of party resumes and connections. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u167	Thank you, too. I would like to ask Mr Mark Owl of the Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We had similar information in this room last year. At the time, the Minister of the Treasury spoke bluntly that loyalty was the most important element. His speech showed that he was concerned with loyalty to the implementation of the Law and Justice Programme. Today we know that the program with this loyalty has nothing to do with it. It is about loyalty to individual ministers or factions of Law and Justice. A few weeks ago, maybe two months ago, right after the changes in the PZU, we asked a current question. Minister Emilewicz then replied that the Prime Minister had taken over the supervision of PZU company and made HR decisions in this regard. Although she pointed out that cooperation is fruitful, harmonious, there is generally all respect and great love and, of course, Minister Morawiecki does not need any powers to implement his programme. Ladies and gentlemen! Is the Prime Minister, Minister, going to take away Prime Minister Morawiecki's supervision of the next companies? What was the reason that the Prime Minister took away the supervision of PZU SA from Prime Minister Morawiecki? What role does Mr. Witold Ziobro play in this company? When you read various press releases, it looks like he's the creator of staffing in the whole PZU SA group. What did he deserve so much recognition from the Prime Minister's office? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Law and Justice will now speak. There's no envoy. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u170	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We read about the fact that there is a great carousel in the companies of the Treasury almost every day. The Pisewicz are reigning, the Bears are appointed not because they are competent, but because each Member is sticking with his own. It doesn't matter if someone has the right experience, whether they are competent, important that they are their own, because each Member signs their territory, plus other PiS activists. What is the effect of placing these different Pisiewiczs in companies? An example of PGE - the head of the company Mining and Energy Conventional is the vice president of the municipal company from Bogatynia. What kind of management experience? Yeah, it's small. What effect of such a change? In Turów the landslide in September of that year, 0,5 billion losses, today used only 30% Power. What are the consequences? Has anyone suffered the consequences of a possible human error there? What's going on? What about Bełchatów? Some weird game between the mine bosses and the DGOS, some blame the others. What's the effect? There will be no Złoczew deposit. And the effect for Belchatov? There's no discovery, there's no energy, there's no Belchatov. This is the good, competent change? This is, it may seem, what the President once said - a cash change. The question, Minister, and I ask you to answer in writing. How much on the national scale did all checks for former CEOs and members of the management boards of companies previously filled by the PiS have been carried out with these carousels? After all, what you're saying is outrageous. Mrs Szymańska asked about railway companies. Yesterday we received a document and it turns out that in the railway company Lotos Railway is a career made by councilwoman PiS from Gdynia [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hanna Mazur, at the same time head of marketing of Polish Gazeta, and previously a lingerie saleswoman, or a specialist in handball and online teaching...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u171	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u172	...Mr. Macadamus. Bravo, Minister. This is your good change and good management. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not respect the discipline of time, not everyone will be able to ask questions, Please, Mr Marek Polak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u174	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We all know that companies of the State Treasury are strategically important for the Polish economy and economic security of the country and play an important role in the development process of our country. It therefore seems ridiculous that the group, which, as a result of democratic elections, has taken over power, implemented its programme through the people appointed by its predecessors, and I will remind you that as many as 6.5 thousand have been established under the PO-PSL coalition only in seven years. new managers, not only in the economy, but also in the administration. So I have a question for the representative of the applicants: How do applicants see the possibility of an effective electoral programme being implemented by a governing group through people appointed by a decoupled team? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u175	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, you take money that shocks you, really, these are shocking amounts, saying that you took a consulting company that told you that the board members in the market should make so much money. Then I'm asking her what she was comparing to when you're a monopoly. If you were to get competition today, it is interesting whether, in view of the effects of the work of the PKP, the market would indeed verify such levels of remuneration of the management board. This is a quote from Mr Adamczyk's statement of 22 November 2012. However, in the management boards of the PKP companies appointed by this gentleman, now minister, as reported by the press: the Golden Mountains of PKP Cargo. The CEO makes over 100,000. zł a month, the huge earnings of the president of PKP SA! He gets 105 grand. monthly. Therefore, I asked a question in the interpellation about presenting specific earnings, about comparison. The question was thus asked: Please compare the current earnings of PKP's CEOs, including PKP's, including income from sitting on supervisory boards of other companies, not only the State Treasury's subsidiaries, with respect to similar earnings from November 2015. The Minister replied that he could not give such an answer, that he could not give a statement in the light of the legal provisions under which these earnings could not be disclosed. Today the Minister says that of course he will present such a statement. So I'm asking you to make a statement like that. And at the same time, this change in the quality of the management you were talking about, in the case of the PKP, showed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That one year after the company's board was appointed, he got the charges and was dismissed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u177	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am aware that the management of companies of the State Treasury is an area sensitive to pathology and had a problem with this de facto all formations governing Poland. However, I am sad to say that what we often understand in terms of pathology has become the norm in this term of office. The nurse in the supervisory board of a key energy company is, Minister, not the personnel from the film about the Bolshevik Revolution. This is an example from Poland, Poland ruled by Beata Szydło. These examples can be multiplied. Almost every company of the State Treasury is a separate study of political colonialism. Almost all of them are full of politicians, their relatives and friends with skills inadequate to meet challenges. PiS is by far the only formation that voted to reduce the requirements necessary to sit on supervisory boards in order to adapt to the level of its facilities. I would remind you that this applies to seaport subsidiaries. In the Senate, this bill, already at the moment, was named lex Horała from the name of the Member of the applicant. The government of Beata Szydło eliminated the ministry, which specialized in ownership supervision, and distributed the companies of the Treasury to individual departments which treat them as occupied land, preferring manual control. Socialism is coming back. If the government needs money to sustain the mining industry, why not ask for a proper distribution to energy companies? If there is no money to restructure PJM or infrastructure investments in Vistula, why wouldn't seaports help? After all, everything happens under the wings of one department. High Izbo! From my previous term of office I remember the resistance of PiS politicians to privatization of companies of the Treasury. There were various arguments, and today you can see what real motivations were. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u179	The question is asked by Mrs Anna April, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a brief question about LOT's Polish Airlines. Is it true that for many years Poles were informed that Poland could not afford its own carrier, that we should get rid of it and that the good economic move would be to sell, privatise our achievements, the achievements of our Polish carrier? I have a question about that. Please tell us what financial results the company achieved in 2016. Is it true that in 2016 LOT opened 20 new routes? And what are the prospects for our carrier, what are the plans for him? And I would also like to respond here to my colleagues from the opposition, who constantly highlight the issues of competence. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important competences that public-owned officials or persons should have is simply honesty. Honesty, simple honesty, allowed the companies to make this profit after a year. In addition to all competences and many faculty, simple honesty and hard work for the Republic of Poland is a basic competence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u181	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We do not know just what measure of honesty you are measuring. Let me just give you an example - Mr Radosław Obolewski, vice president of the Polish Armed Forces Group, who for several months could not give up his business car. This is how you measure the integrity of your employees, Misiewicz. High Izbo! Pharmacy in Łomianki, Society of Singers Lira, lovers, passionate aquariums this is the forge The talents of Law and Justice, this is the forge The talents of the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz. Since the beginning of PiS's power of power, staff cleaning has begun in the Polish arms industry. He's the one I want to focus on, Minister. The Polish Armed Group consists of 60 arms companies, where almost 20,000 workers work. People. The turnover of this holding company amounts to nearly PLN 5 billion. Antoni Macierewicz, and really the supervisory boards set up by Law and Justice, released almost all management staff, high-class specialists, specialists who care about the development of these companies, and above all about the Polish armored product, from which we could, at least, be proud. What do we got? Antoni Macierewicz's octopus, hundreds of people, a hundred, I'm sorry, people who sit on boards are getting huge wages. You are not talking about the Polish armored product, you are talking about money, the future of Misiewicz, not the future of the Polish armored industry. Teddy bears do not need to have a higher education, for why will the statutes change, the requirements are removed from the statutes. Supervisory board members don't have to have special courses because the statutes will change. In 22 arms companies, you changed the statutes of Misiewicz. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am terrified to see what the future of these companies will be under such governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u183	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Paul, the Law and Justice Club. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club. The question is asked by Mr Wiesław Krajewski. [[No, no. There's Mr. Gadowski.]] [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, the relay, the Miesiewicz carousel, the Pisiewicz stand continues. The Minister requested that Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa be summoned from this tribune. I'd like us to stay with this hawk company for a while. It is a fact, Minister, that the hawk company was experiencing difficult times when the price of coal fell when the supply of coal on the market was quite high. It is also true that then the government of PO and PSL presented a specific offer of restructuring which was implemented. Prior to your arrival, it was agreed with the trade unions, agreed with the social side broadly understood certain activities to be carried out, and this was implemented. After winning the elections, the state also started discussing, restricting the authorisation of miners. And what does it turn out to be? After the election, suddenly there wasn't enough for you, you said that in practically every company your daughter needs to establish an additional new position as vice president, who hasn't been there so far. Minister, check it out if you're talking about control. In the Central Research and Measurement Laboratory sp. z o.o. The position of Deputy Chairman of the Management Board - Director for Property Management and Development has been established. There hasn't been a position so far. The position of Deputy Chairman of the Management Board - Director for Development and Production Preparation was created in Jastrzębska Spółka Kolejowa. It hasn't happened so far. In the Water Management and Reclamation Company SA was created the position of deputy president for development. Minister, these miners are asking if they're supposed to be working on them today. They've been reassigned, and the PiS is creating additional jobs for the presidents. How many CEOs are taking from you today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, miners don't get the equivalent because you can't make the bill you promised. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u185	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Wiesław Krajewski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I listened to the Minister's speech a few moments ago, who mentioned impressive numbers. It seems that the opposition is probably most enraged that it is unable to understand these figures in the past years. The Treasury companies present on the Polish Stock Exchange announce their financial results for the first quarter of this year. It turns out that in comparison with the results for the first quarter of the UB. r. they are excellent, even sensational. At the head of the list of companies with the highest net profit increase compared to last year are two fuel companies: PKN Orlen and Lotos. The enormous increases in net profit in these two fuel companies are undoubtedly due to the change in the law related to fuel generation and trading introduced by the new government and the parliamentary majority, but they are also due to the new management boards and supervisory boards which take due care of the Treasury's assets. There are still many examples of well-managed companies of the Treasury, such as PZU, PGNiG, PLL LOT, energy sector companies, etc. This undoubtedly welcomes and, above all, proves that the selection of managers in these companies is conducted properly. My question. Minister, how do you feel about this over the last few months, can you say, almost six months? Is the change of the model of management of the Treasury companies by individual ministries in accordance with the Council of Ministers Regulation of 3 January this year. is it producing the expected results now? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u187	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We agree that certain sectors of the economy should be controlled by the state. We must be aware that, in addition to competence, experience and appropriate traineeships, representatives of the supervisory boards and boards of State Treasury companies must have the confidence of the Minister and implement the economic programme of the Government. The State, when managing its assets, should set specific objectives before the Treasury companies. The aim is to combine state policy with the development of these companies. The economic results of the last year showed that personal policy in the companies of the Treasury guarantees proper supervision of the assets of the State Treasury and at the same time protects the interests of these companies. An excellent example is PKN Orlen, which in 2016 increased its net profit by PLN 2.5 billion compared to 2015, which represents an increase of 496%. But Orlen's not the only one in a good financial position. Other companies of the Treasury, such as Lotos, JSW, LOT, and even KGHM, are also in good condition despite such failed investments in Chile and Canada. In 2015, we were threatened by a stock market crash, an economic collapse, while the stock exchange index increased by 23.9%. The record holder is JSW, whose shares have increased by 394% since the elections. Treasury companies are real locomotives, or actually bulls. As we know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] their market value today is 42% The whole stock market...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u190	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u191	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u192	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Law and Justice politicians have deceived Poles, claiming that there will be no job losses in mining, and that new jobs will be created, that there will be no mine dismantling and new ones will be built. In the meantime, reality is completely different. So far more than 8,000 have been permanently liquidated. jobs in mining, further mines are being liquidated. Restructuring of mining is such that Poland's Górnicza Group was created in place of the coal company that was liquidated last year. The Coal Company was to be liquidated. Today, the reality is that there is a programme: a family for its own, i.e. hiring colleagues from the Prime Minister. The company's vice-president is a colleague from PiS Mr Krzysztof Kozik, a member of the Supervisory Board of Gliwice's Mining Services Department is a colleague of her husband, Prime Minister Michał Kaszyński. 13 subsidiaries. The total number of members of the Management Board is 26, the members of the Supervisory Boards - 63 and the procurators - 26. After the acquisition by the Polish Mining Group of coal mines from Katowice Holding Węglowy on 1 April this year Katowice Holding Węglowy, which also does not carry out mining activities, still operates on the market. The 5-person board, the 8-person board of supervisors and two procurators manage 30 employees today. My questions, Minister, are as follows. What is the level of remuneration of individual members of the boards of individual companies - here I am thinking of the Coal Company, about Katowice Holding Węglowy - members of supervisory boards? Did these salaries - I think about Katowice Holding of Coal - decrease in this respect, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the responsibilities...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u193	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u194	...have been reduced? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u195	The question is asked by Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question is not to the Minister, but to the initiators of this discussion, Members of the Civic Platform. Please explain to me logically how it happens that outstanding professionals, managers, in quotes, designated to companies of the Treasury by the PO-PSL team, happily bypassed, managed these companies so that at a time when Poland was a green island, these companies suffered losses, possibly small profits, and people designated to the same companies by the current team manage them so that they make profits, and it is surprisingly high. I wonder if that's understood by the young people sitting there on the balcony. So I ask rhetorically: Which managers are real managers, and which managers can be referred to as theoretical managers? By analogy to the state, which was so defined by your prominent activist, the minister. It seems that the power in your day has designated the management of companies of the Treasury of such people... [[Misiewicz.]] ...who worked for you. Professionality did not matter, nor did Polish interests. And since I still have time, I would like to draw the attention of the Members of the opposition to the fact that the predisposition to running a company is a bit different than to produce products. And the final reflection: the lack of practice in the PO equals the lack of qualifications. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u197	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Jolanta Hibner, the Civic Platform Club. The question is asked by Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a very important issue: financial condition and personnel situations in Polish arms companies, in Polish state companies, which should not only bring tangible economic and financial benefits, but also determine our safety, because they are fuel companies, energy companies, transport companies and arms companies. Therefore, they should be led by ministers and by the Polish government by responsible people and competent people. I am going straight to Podkarpacie, because the Member from the Civic Platform, who reviewed who asked for this information, is from there. I will give examples of four companies from Podkarpacie, which, under your rule, under the rule of the Civic Platform, were not doing well, to put it mildly. Steelworks Wola. Why were there, Minister, in your time, as far as Regina was concerned, six years late, and as far as Cancer is concerned, annual? Next: construction of a steam and gas block in Stalowa Wola, investment carried out by Tauron and by PGNiG. Before we took over, there was a two-year delay. Next: Siarkopol in Tarnobrzeg, a company which has been in liquidation for several years, has been operating as a company of commercial law since May this year as a healthy company of commercial law. Next: Autosan in Sanok, in bankruptcy for years. You had eight years to help Sanok with Autosan. The last inexplicable decision for me of the person who led the Polish Armed Group, Mr Dąbrowski, the decision that blocked Autosan's ability to buy out Autosan by Huta Stalowa Wola and PIT-Radwar, was just such a show example of how [[♪ The bell ♪]] You managed Polish arms companies. Can you answer these questions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u199	Thank you. The question is asked by Maria Janyska, the Civic Platform Club. There is no Member. Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, club Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Manage state property according to law and justice before the elections should be young, educated, not political. That's how you screamed before the election. You lied to the Poles because the companies are managed by well-deserved and loyal CEOs. Ms Sadurska, a Member of the PiS, criticised the HR policy of the then government in companies with the participation of the State Treasury. She was talking about a list of shame. Today we have a list of Misiewiczs, which contains hundreds of names associated with the PiS politically. There are former politicians, councillors, MEPs and ministers. And Mrs Sadurska, who will be vice president of PZU. In 2005, Wojciech Jasiński said: there is no place in companies with the participation of the State Treasury for people from political broadcasting. After the election he became president of PKN Orlen. Your hypocrisy reaches the zenith. What experience did Mr Jasinski have in the petrochemical industry, including this position? Or that in the Silver Company... Remember, it was a very loud case, as in Silver, he canceled the Centre Agreement's debts as treasure minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u201	The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Malik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's current information is being hit by mournful tones, assessing the human policy of the Law and Justice Government, and yet this policy must be assessed according to its fruitage. By the fruits you will know them - a famous quote from the Gospel can be perfectly applied here. The measure of the quality of HR policy in companies of the Treasury is the efficiency of management and ownership supervision, and this translates directly into financial results. Well, I have here net financial results of companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange from the WIG20 index in the first quarter of 2017. During the first 3 months of this year. The top 20 listed companies generated a total of PLN 9926 million net profit, of which PLN 8.5 billion fell on companies of the State Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last year in total, companies such as PKN Orlen, PGNiG, PGE, PZU, JSW, Tauron, PKO BP, Lotus, KGHM, ENERGY, improved net financial profit by 100% I'll say it again, 100%. Therefore, I believe that this is sufficient proof that the criticism of the state is completely unfounded, little of it, simply harmful to the Polish State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Club Law and Justice, will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Please answer me, Minister, to the questions: Is it true that the situation of companies under the supervision of the State has improved thanks to proper management? Thanks to the proper management of Regional Transports recently, have they made a profit for the first time in several years? Didn't LOT's situation improve in a diametric way, which was still to be sold to an foreign carrier for gold a few years ago, because there were such press titles, and the company saved itself year after year by selling companies from its capital group? Did the financial performance of fuel companies improve in a spectacular manner? I would also like to reiterate how the requirements for persons responsible for company supervision and the reduction of the remuneration of board members have been tightened. by making them dependent on the financial results achieved. Parliamentarians, who are so worried about the Polish arms industry, I will remind only, because it recently fell in the plenary room, that during the reign of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, the funds addressed to Polish companies amounted to only 5% the entire budget. At this point - I'm talking about defence spending - that's gonna change. We can be calm about the future of the Polish armory. As for Orlen, which was only mentioned here, I would like to remind you that compared to 2015 to 2016, the profits of this company increased by 78%. I understand that it really hurts you, and it doesn't suit you so much, because we have shown that these companies can be managed properly, giving the expected results and beneficial to everyone. It's not like you wanted the fuel to be 7 zlotys by now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u205	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Sylvester Tulaev, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When discussing personal policy in companies with direct or indirect participation of the State Treasury, it is worth discussing what it looked like during the Civic Platform, what it looked like during the Polish People's Party. It is worth knowing what people during the Civic Platform were running companies of the State Treasury. In recent days, the media has been quite widely informed about further detentions due to VAT fraud. Tax losses of about PLN 60 million and money laundering of the value of PLN 14 million were dumped. Enea's vice-president was one of the detained in 2010 and 2012. Do you really want these people to run the Treasury companies? Do you want these times to return? We as the government of Law and Justice, as Law and Justice, will not allow this. And the numbers speak for themselves. The net loss for 2015 of Enea amounts to PLN 400 million. In 2016, there was already a profit, net profit of PLN 800 million. Today it must be made clear that the companies of the Treasury are managed very well. State Treasury companies are beating financial records. The stock exchange value of state-owned companies from 26 October 2015 to the end of May 2016 increased by more than 36 billion PLN. Someone will ask: What is the recipe for all this? The recipe was very beautiful and very forcefully presented by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, and she said this: it is enough not to steal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u207	The question is asked by Maria Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer to the last sentence of the PiS Member's statement that it is enough not to steal. This, sir, please answer: Who stole in 2016, since GDP decreased dramatically in 2016? In 2015 in the fourth quarter we left you - the governments of PO and PSL - a highly and dynamically developing country, a high level of investment and it seemed that sustainable economic growth. It's different for a year. So, sir, who's really stealing? I also ask about HR policy in companies of the State Treasury. You also said VAT fraud. Is this to be understood by the fact that VAT was extorted in the State Treasury companies? Because that's what you said. So, sir, I think you're gonna look into this very carefully and see. On the other hand, the policy you are applying causes, among other things, the policy that you are applying. the fact that in Poland the last year has shown that there is very much concern about the permanent functioning of business entities. It is also connected with the entire staff wind with Pisiewicz, Misiewicz, work for his, which took place during the past year. Such a political leap has not been exercised by any authority. That's why private investors are afraid to invest. 76% - this is the data from March this year - entrepreneurs feel uncertainty about the government's activities. 74% is convinced that too much depends on the discretionary decisions of officials. 72% fears changes in law and administrative activities. Investments decreased by 8%, including in companies with more than nine employees, by 13%. What does that come from? Because they are afraid of the PiS as well as fear the activities of financial institutions and companies in the public finance sector, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which based on Pisiewicz and Misiewicz do not guarantee...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u209	Thank you, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u210	...of high quality or efficiency of management. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u211	Mr Zdzisław Gawlik will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If I may, briefly. I think it would be fair if you, by giving these figures and referring to many statements, wanted to present the results of 2016 against the background of 2014. I will not refer to the individual reports that were for 2015, who prepared them, created reserves for what purposes, etc. The result is... We'll live and compare it next year from 2015. As far as remuneration issues are concerned, it would, of course, also be fair to tell tax companies today and show people, Poles, how much these people earn. You're talking, Minister, about daughter companies, and you're not talking about the presence of different people in different companies that are not directly related to the managed entity. I know that you have fantastic people who can manage the largest energy companies and at the same time manage large financial institutions. They're great. It's just too bad they have to pay both in one place. With regard to the performance of certain companies, of course this is sometimes the case, that the environment shows that it is different. It is a pity that there is no Mrs Masłowska, who said that this happened, that the gas price for the large customer increased by 25% this year. It's easy to roll. Does this translate into a PGNiG result? I don't know, but it's very easy to count and you can do it. As far as LOT issues are concerned, let's be honest when these rights... have been recovered when certain actions have been taken. If someone were honest, they'd reach that point. The issue of Regin, crabs, steelworks Wola. Mr President, you are a very young man, look at the time when the "Regina" programme was undertaken and what the previous government has done to ensure that "Regina" is saved. It was Samsung's president in Stalowa Wola who said when this program was regulated. It's a pity that the Pole is saved... it's a pity that the Pole cannot see that someone has done something, but is looking for a stick on the other... [[Six years late.]] With regard to the Steelworks Wola, please see what condition you left the Steelworks Wola in 2007 - please. You will continue Minister Karpiński. Thank you very much. [[What about the steam and gas block?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, you're right that the numbers are telling the truth, but there's just a saying: there's a lie, a big lie, and statistics. It can be treated selectively. If you want to convince this House and those who are watching in the stands, and those in front of the receivers, that transfers of PiS politicians from parliamentary benches or from local government benches or other friends of the bunny have politically improved the efficiency of management, if you want to convince them that total exchanges every three quarters in powerful companies in the field of personnel policy generate revenue, then let's face it, Minister, that you do not believe it yourself. The neighborhood store, as it changes the manager once a quarter, is in trouble, not only in terms of management, but also in terms of receiving on the market. So this is really unfair, and I don't want to talk about hypocrisy here. This is the whole time a series of events that you started two years ago. You have convinced some Poles that Poland is in ruins. Later, a week before the October elections, we learned that Minister Macierewicz would not be Minister of National Defence. Then we found out there wouldn't be 500+ for every child. Then we found out that there would be no help for the franchise. We later learned that Mr Piotrowicz, a prosecutor of martial law, is presented as a advocate of freedom and civil rights. All of this can be called one slogan in your program: lie+. And today you are also trying to say in the same way that personnel castles, the payment of political debts - some call it political corruption - is also a lie+. Because it is not normal in the economy that changing boards, and hence, throughout the corporation, the entire chain related to personal nominations, are normal from a management point of view. Minister, as you have eliminated the Ministry of Treasury, we have said that this is a mistake, that in your, also ideological, attitude in the sense of looking at the economy is to concentrate power in one hand. Today we see tensions between different ministries. The illusory influence of this is the Council on State Treasury Companies - unless you neglect - because not so long ago a prominent representative of Law and Justice, then... then no longer, but earlier the spokesperson of Law and Justice, former Member Adam Hofman spoke about personal decisions directly: all personal decisions regarding the filling of companies were made at the highest level at Nowogrodzka, and there was no other possibility. So I'm asking why all the boards, why all the chuckle dancing, talking about getting the best people nominated, [[♪ The bell ♪]] transfer theirs directly from political life to public life.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u215	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u216	As Minister Gawlik said, we will see how this will bear fruit in the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u217	The Minister-Member of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll refer to the last sentence that the Company Council is illusory. Then tell the seven people who got the negative opinion that this is an illusory opinion. So... [[I quote Hofman.]] So, yeah...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u219	But you are not discussing it now, sir, but listening to the Minister's speech. You're welcome. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: So that's what it looks like. But I'm going back to all the questions. Forgive me if I don't respond precisely to everyone, but 10 minutes isn't much. As far as change is concerned, there was a charge that we weren't looking at change... It means that we only take into account quantitative changes, not qualitative changes. Yeah, how many times can you say that the effects show that these changes were qualitatively for the better? You cannot understand this - as the Prime Minister has been quoted here - that the best dishonest professionals are worse than honest people who may not have all schools and, above all, are not members of the Civic Platform. That's why it hurts you so much - because they're not members of the Civic Platform, and that's why there's this aversion. But let's look at the results. The results show that the quality of management is much better, twice as much in terms of financial performance as in your governments. I know you can deny it here, but that's the facts. If you wish to deny these facts, God save us from the governments of the Civic Platform, because once again the companies of the Treasury will start losing by specialists from the Civic Platform. This is reality, so let's not talk about quality anymore, because quality is really a subjective concept. I understand that it sounds different in your mouths, the quality of that professional of yours who can... I'm not gonna finish. With regard to legal solutions in this area and these checks, concerns, etc., as regards the question of how much has gone on checks - we have introduced, and this is enforced, a maximum ban on competition for 6 months and only when someone is working for 12 months. It's not like your government, someone went to the company for two weeks and took a good salary for two years. There are clear rules. And this is true for all those leaving the board. Because the exchanges will be, always have been, always will be, always will be. It is never that management is perfect, and you always need to improve something. There was a question about Mrs Sadurska's qualifications. If, for example, management, i.e. being the head of the Supervisory Board of ZUS, which spends 200 billion PLN per year, is not a good experience, I do not know what should be better. And appropriate education in both law and governance, and economics. Come on, if the reason for disqualified is because she's the head of the President's Office, what are we talking about? So that's the way it is with qualifications. I admit, he is a candidate for the Management Board of PZU, but he will be subject to qualifications, competitions, just like everyone else. And I'm talking about qualifications, I know what she's got. You can smile, Minister, but you don't have better qualifications. Oh, and that's all the pain. [[I don't have complexes, absolutely.]] Yeah, that's right. [[Voice from the room: But it's in the PO.]] So if being a member of the P.O. gives you a higher qualification... [[Even the commissioner.]] ...then we've had results over the last few years. [[Voice from the hall: Misiewicz...]] Only we were able to learn from it. On the other hand, when it comes to comparison, is Mr Gawlik e.g. doesn't remember Michał Tomaki, then a 27-year-old assistant who, without education, entered Zurad's supervisory board without anything? Remember? Except you didn't learn from it, and we're learning from it. [[Son of a former envoy.]] [[Voice from the room: After the media storm.]] Another point - Mrs Masłowska's question about Azoths. This is indeed a more technical question about how to manage. Yeah, we pulled out or the board pulled out of construction, well, a little irresponsible of the gas power plant at that time. There's going to be a coal plant. And that's the difference between you and me. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, that's the difference-- Russian gas addiction, I know you liked it. [[Minister, Naimski's looking for natural gas.]] Mrs Ewa Szymańska... Mr President, this is the second time I have warned you. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: Mrs Ewa Szymańska - how it is, how it happened that Regional Transports with losses have a profit of 51 million, others have a profit, other railway companies, Intercity, cited LOT, etc., after years of losses, 303 million profits are constantly repeated. That is what Mrs Anna April was still asking. In fact, last year 23 new connections were opened, LOT is developing actively. And that bothers you? What? You were gonna take him out? Because that's the only way to understand it. Does it bother the development of LOT? Then why were there these losses and blocking and braking? [[Who was saving him?]] More questions. Mrs. Zofia Czernow, Sierra Gorda. In fact, in Sierra Gorda... The honourable Member has been very vigilant about this matter. There was a time when the Poles did not manage this company, I completely agree with you. Now this company in Sierra Gorda is managed by Poles and we eliminate, we eliminate losses, because losses are huge, thoughtless purchases for 11 billion PLN in 2011. Unfortunately, the wounds will have to be treated for a very, very long time. It can't be done immediately. But I completely agree with you, now the Poles manage, before the Poles did not manage this company. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska - this is about management experience. I've referred to this many times before. If this experience is bad, it's better not be. The conflict in Bełchatów is a confusion of concepts. WDOŚ is not in the area of State Treasury companies, it is an office and unfortunately requires a great reform, but the reform in this area is already proposed by the Minister of Environment and I hope that this will be implemented and these institutions will also function well. Minister Aziewicz - he is disturbed by a nurse on the company's supervisory board. And didn't your father-in-law disturb you on the port management board in Gdansk? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I know he's not, but he was. But he was. [[Game in the O.R.]] And then he didn't bother you? And then he didn't bother you? [[He wasn't. What's with all this information, Minister? Absolutely a lie.]] [[Voice from the room: What are the arguments?]] Anna April - when it comes to LOT, as I said before, this answer is repeated, which spoke about the excellent performance of the company and the careful... [[In corrigendum, I was offended by this gentleman.]] ...and careful management. Paweł Suski, Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform. As far as the Polish Armed Forces Group is concerned, it was indeed in a very difficult situation, it is correct. Very intensive repairs are underway and huge effects are not visible, but for the first time in 2016 were full arms orders and in the vast majority located in Polish companies, which was never under the rule of the Civic Platform. Contracts have always been unfinished, and if any, it was a search for purchases, those for modernization of the Polish Armed Forces, outside the country. Now the reconstruction of the Polish Armed Group is underway. I think there are already very significant effects after 2016, they are good, but much, much better will be shown after 2017. Member Krzysztof Gadowski spoke about how Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, etc., was saved thanks to the prepared mining repair program. in mining. Ladies and gentlemen, I know it's still worth tying up to success now, but not in our time, but behind your miners they were on strike - with tires, with bolts, the police shot the miners in your day. That's how you cared about mining. [[It's not the miners. It's the toilets. To the toilet, Minister.]] There has never been a serious strike during the rule of law and justice. There is an agreement with the miners, it is a very difficult part of the economy. Thanks to the great involvement of Minister Tchórzewski in the agreement with trade unions, restructuring and repair of the mining sector are underway in agreement with the miners, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence such a huge profit on the stock exchange of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. And that's the real success. [[8 billion taxpayers of money.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: The other questions will be answered in writing. I would just like to add that in addition to the profit of the accountant, it is worth remembering, the stock exchange is a very objective measure when it comes to companies of the Treasury. Thank you very much. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: I would like to remind you that from December 2015 only this part of the State Treasury on the stock exchange has grown by PLN 24, by almost PLN 25 billion. This part... Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: ... The Treasury from 31 December 2015 to today... You've run out of time. [[What about Hofman?]] Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: ...for 1.5 years part of the Treasury has grown by PLN 25 billion on the stock exchange. And this is... Thank you, Minister. You've run out of time. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: And that's very painful, isn't it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The Minister's statement concludes this point... [[But in corrigendum mode. I wanted to correct it.]] No, sir. It was a discussion, and the Minister mentioned... [[But I've been replaced.]] Then you can submit it to the ethics committee. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights... [[In the statement...]] Mr. President, please don't... [[Mr. Marshal, I have the right to correct. Lying information has been presented about me, and I have the right to explain it. But I want to inform the public...]] Report to the ethics committee. This is no longer the place for discussion. Thank you very much, sir. Please leave the podium. [[Absolute scandal.]] We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts (prints Nos 1563 and 1590). [[A scandal, Minister, really. Disgraceful.]] I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee. [[Shame.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights of the meeting held on 2 June 2017, at which the initiative of the President of the Republic was examined, a draft law amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. From a legal point of view, this is a small initiative, because it is only two articles, but it concerns cases relating to four articles in the Law on Administrative Courts, namely Article. 28, Art. 175, Art. 194 and Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 287, except that the reason for this initiative is the entry into force of the provisions of the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland of 15 December 2016. The Prosecutor General may take over the representation in proceedings before administrative courts at the reasoned request of a governmental authority, an organisational unit without legal personality or an entity representing the Treasury. The provisions of the Article shall apply. Paragraph 7 5 and 6 shall apply mutatis mutandis. The replacement shall be carried out by the Public Prosecutor General in proceedings before administrative courts in an optional manner. According to Art. 10, which I have already mentioned, the Act on the Prosecutor General's Prosecutor's Office may, in specific judicial proceedings, take over a replacement at the request of one of the entities of a governmental authority, an organisational unit without legal personality or an entity representing the State Treasury. This provision therefore does not directly correspond to whose replacement the Prosecutor General may take over, i.e. by using the terminology of the Law of 30 August 2002. The law on proceedings before administrative courts for which entities acting in administrative proceedings of the Prosecutor General may take action. The answer to this question requires that Article be taken into account. 25 Law on proceedings before administrative courts and articles. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 1 (4) of the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Based on these provisions, we can conclude that the Attorney General may take over the replacement of government administrations which, as falling within the category of public administrations, have judicial capacity under Article. 25 § 1 Law on proceedings before administrative courts. Used in art. The 10th Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office covers the concept of an organisational unit without legal personality as indicated in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 4 of that law State organisational units without legal personality. Following the entry into force of the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office on 1 January 2017, the provisions of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts have been amended, in particular Article. 28 and Article 28 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, However, these changes need to be completed. And so in the article. 28 of that Law by adding the second sentence of § 2 It has been taken into account that the Attorney General may take action for the State Treasury in judicial proceedings. However, it has not been taken into account that in accordance with Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 1 (4) in conjunction with Article. The 10th Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Public Prosecutor General may also act before administrative courts for governmental authorities and for state organisational units without legal personality. The second major amendment concerns Article. 175. With effect from 1 January 2017, it was amended § 2 by indicating that the solicitor's obligation under § 1 to draw up a cassation complaint does not apply in a case in which the prosecutor of the General Prosecutor's Office is a party, a representative or a proxy, but does not act on the basis of a power of attorney but on the basis of a statutory mandate pursuant to Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Act on the Attorney General. Therefore, in order to avoid doubt, it is proposed to Article. 175 plus § 2a of such content: actions in the proceedings for governmental authorities, state organisational units without legal personality or the Treasury shall be taken by the Public Prosecutor General. As a result, there will be no doubt that it is indicated in the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office, Vice-Presidents and Counsels of the Public Prosecutor's Office, who are to be removed from the list of lawyers or have a suspended right to pursue the profession of legal counsel, may file cassation complaints in judicial administrative proceedings in cases in which the replacement has been taken over by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Another major change concerns the repeal of the Article. 287 Law on proceedings before administrative courts. In accordance with that provision, where the court in the judgment revokes the contested decision and the authority, when examining the case, will again cancel the proceedings or if the court annuls the act or establishes a legal obstacle to the annulment of the act, the party who has suffered the damage shall serve as compensation from the authority which issued the decision. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 287 The law on proceedings before administrative courts in the current state of law is a relic of rules based on the provisions repealed by the Law of 17 June 2004 amending the Civil Code Act and certain other articles. 160 The Code of Administrative Procedure, which introduced the responsibility of the authorities for issuing a defective administrative decision, with this compensation being limited to actual damage and there was no principle of full damage, is real damage plus lost benefits, namely the Latin Damnum Emergens and Lucrum Assans. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 287 The law on proceedings before administrative courts was not adapted to the code regulation at that time, since, let me remind you, the code contains a stand-alone basis for damages - it is a matter of Article. 417 § 2 Civil Code - which is the sole basis for responsibility for decisions or other administrative acts. This draft law does not contain a transitional provision because it is redundant in this situation. As far as entry into force is concerned, there is no vacathio legis either. The law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. This is simply dictated by the need to protect the interests of the Treasury. These interests are being protected by the Attorney General, because the possible replacement of the representatives of the Attorney General in these proceedings which are already under way will, in this situation, rely only on the presentation of the power of attorney, if this procedure is already under way, e.g. from those units that I have already mentioned, and in particular may concern government administrations which will order prosecutions by the Public Prosecutor-General, and state organisational units that do not have legal personality. Thank you very much. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that this legislative initiative of the President of the Republic be continued.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u221	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] There's no envoy. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Voice from the room: Why don't we continue?]] Yeah, but what if there's no messenger? Okay, I'll take it back. I'm not declaring a break. As the first Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the draft law of the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts, print No 1563. From 1 January this year. The Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, which amended the provisions of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts, entered into force. In practice, these changes, in particular concerning Article. 28 and Article 28 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, The main objective of the draft law is to remove doubts in the application of the law by clarifying the changes made and ensuring its consistency. According to the Act, the Public Prosecutor General may take over the representation in proceedings before administrative courts at the request of one of the following entities: government administration, organizational unit without legal personality, entity representing the Treasury. The replacement of the Attorney General is always optional. Amendment to Article 28 introduced on 1 January this year. takes into account only that the Public Prosecutor's Office may act as the State Treasury, but disregards the possibility of replacing government administrations and state organisational units without legal personality. This obvious inconsistency requires a change, which is made in the procedated bill. Another inaccuracy is created in the article. 175 The law on proceedings before administrative courts, which states that the solicitor's obligation to draw up a cassation complaint is not applicable in a case in which the Attorney General is a party, a representative or a proxy. In the meantime, the Attorney General's Attorney General is not acting on the basis of a power of attorney but on the basis of a statutory mandate. In order to avoid doubt, the provisions in Article have been extended. 175 Rights of legal proceedings before administrative courts, which clearly and precisely govern these matters. In addition, the draft law repeals the article. 286 The rights of proceedings before administrative courts, which introduced the possibility of obtaining compensation from the authority which issued the decision, where the court in the judgment revokes the contested decision and the authority re-examines the case, cancels the proceedings or annuls the act or establishes a legal obstacle to the annulment of the act. The repeal of this Article in practice means that damages will only be dealt with on the basis of Article. 417 Civil Code, which is already a basic legal act in matters of compensation. The changes made to the Law on proceedings before administrative courts do not give rise to substantive doubts, but the errors and ambiguities created are the result of excessive haste in the examination of projects at all stages of legislation and lack of due care for the quality of the law. Unfortunately, this has already become a rule of procedure, to the detriment of the Polish legal system. It is unacceptable to propose no vacathio legis. The justification for the proposal is the need to remove doubts as soon as possible, and it has been almost six months since these uncertainties exist. This is not a convincing justification. According to the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, implementation of the bill requires at least a 14-day vacatio legis and I make such an amendment on behalf of the club. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u223	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mr Jerzy Jachnik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The presidential project is the consequence of the entry into force of the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland of 15 December 2016 and in principle leads to the synchronization of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts and the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Three articles of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts are practically changed and modified, and this is because both laws are synchronized. On the other hand, I address the Member of the Civic Platform. Mrs. Member! High Izbo! This kind of error arises from the fact that from the beginning of the Sejm the legislative system in the Sejm is bad, whether it was a Platform or a SLD or a PiS. We're just proceding on a cap-paw and instead of simplifying the law... [[Exactly.]] ...and make them clear, clear to the citizen, we make them so complicated that in a moment we catch ourselves that there is no such thing as this, or that it does not correspond with it. [[Applause]] This, then, Member, concerns all of us, and so do you. [[But I'm talking about it specifically.]] Of course, the project is going in the right direction, because it is not about two different legal issues and everyone understands them differently, and then depending on what law they are going to proceed with, it takes a different position. Of course, as a Kukiz club15, we will support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u225	Thank you. Now Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modernly, I am presenting my position on the presidential draft law amending the Law on Procedure in Administrative Courts. The changes proposed in this submission are related to the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office adopted by the High Chamber and, in principle, to the new Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office. There is no doubt that really the work on this law was carried out on the wrong side, among others. There are therefore errors in the law on proceedings before administrative courts. Two essential elements have not been taken into account. In principle, this law aims to clarify the Article. 28 and Article 28 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 175 Law on proceedings before administrative courts in such a way as to ensure that the General Prosecutor's Office can fully represent the State Treasury in these matters. Of course, that doesn't give us any doubt. Another major change concerns the repeal of the Article. 287 Act on proceedings before administrative courts, i.e. an independent basis of liability. And here, in general, after the introduction of the article. 471 Civil Code, a much broader basis for liability for decisions issued, art. 287 simply lost the right to be, because it is right to be crossed out. It should be noted that the Act also received a favourable opinion from the Supreme Administrative Court. In view of the above, the Posel Club The state-of-the-art proposal to refer the bill to further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz will now speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club on the draft law amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. First of all, I would like to thank the President very warmly for the legislative initiative. The bill does not raise any controversy, also in the speeches of representatives of individual clubs of such controversy I do not see. The bill is a natural consequence of the solutions adopted during the reform of the Attorney General. As for vacathio legis, I would like to point out that vacathio legis is always meant to serve something. In this situation, I do not see the need to actually introduce the Vacatio legis proposed by the Civic Platform club. In my opinion, there is no need and there is no justification for it. For this reason, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of this law as proposed by the President's law firm, and therefore without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u229	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, will now speak. Mr President, do you wish to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If representatives of clubs can be recapitalised, this law does not raise any doubts. I would like to stress here that it is not so that the Act on the Attorney General was somehow very quickly prosecuted. It was a government project. He was well prepared, extended the powers of the Attorney General. This supplement is only due to the fact that these procedural powers are also extended to governmental authorities, to the replacement of the Public Prosecutor's Office and to state organisational units without legal personality. On the other hand, as regards the transitional provision, there is no need, as I said, for him to be in this situation and in this legal state. As far as vacathio legis is concerned, this 14-day term has no justification either. We know very well that proceedings are pending before administrative courts, provincial courts and the Supreme Administrative Court. The Attorney General may also conduct these cases and attach power of attorney to specific cases in the case of substitutions. It is in the interest of the State Treasury, state organisational units without legal personality and government administrations that they have a proper representation. This 2-week period will often prevent procedural proceedings, i.e. taking part in hearings or writing appeals, from being carried out by representatives of the Attorney General. It is justified here to omit the vacathio legis so that this law enters into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u231	The Minister as a representative? Please, the representative of the applicants, the Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Anna Surówka-Pasek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u232	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The President's proposal serves first of all to clarify certain doubts which may arise, in particular, on the basis of two provisions - Article. 28 and Article 28 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 175 Rights of proceedings before administrative courts. At the committee meeting, the President of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury indicated that at the moment there are no relevant issues, such as: would prevent the removal from the legal system of Article. 287, however, also stated that the lack of vacathio legis, the rapid entry into force of this law will significantly improve and simplify any kind of procedural substitutions that may be undertaken by the Public Prosecutor General of the State Treasury. Therefore, on behalf of the President, I ask the High House to adopt the bill as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u233	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party on the report of the commission on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. According to the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, it replaces the Polish State, among others. The Treasury and government authorities, in proceedings before courts, tribunals and other judicial authorities. The Attorney General is also supposed to provide them with access to professional legal assistance. The aim of this project is to adapt the law on proceedings before administrative courts to the Act of 15 December 2016 on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland in force from 1 January 2017. [[OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. U. poz. 2261]] and the scope of the entity's operation resulting from the above Act. The Presidential project assumes that, within the scope of a specific Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, the prosecutor may act before administrative courts also for governmental authorities and for state organisational units without legal personality. This scope of action of the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland stems from the regulation of the Act on the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland, but does not stem directly from the current content of the article. 28 Rights of proceedings before administrative courts. Proposed amendment to Article 175 The law on proceedings before administrative courts consists in the addition of a regulation confirming that the requirement for a cassation action by a lawyer or legal adviser does not apply also when actions in proceedings for governmental authorities, for state organisational units without legal personality and for the Treasury are taken by the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland. Such a change is advisable in order to avoid doubts as to the possible scope of action taken by the Attorney General of the Republic of Poland. The last proposed amendment is to repeal the regulation of the Article. 287 Rights of proceedings before administrative courts. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 287 of the Act in its current legal state is a remnant of the rules based on the repealed Article. 160 Code of Administrative Procedure. Art. 287 The law on proceedings before administrative courts was supplemented by the provision of the Article. 160 c.p.a. providing for the responsibility of the authorities issuing the defective decision - another administrative act - and was a logical complement to it. At present, the question of liability is governed by Article. 417 § 2 Civil Code. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 287 The law on proceedings before administrative courts has not been adapted to the abovementioned. only the reference to the repealed Article has been deleted. 160 c.p.a. In this situation, since the provision of the article. 417 § 2 c.c. is the sole basis for the responsibility for decisions - other administrative acts, Article. 287 Rights before administrative courts must be considered redundant. Removal of the provision of the Article. 287 of the above law will ensure consistency of the Polish civil law system and will increase legal security for victims of decisions and other administrative acts. High Izbo! The proposed amendment is intended to ensure consistency between civil and administrative law and undoubtedly regulates the law on proceedings before administrative courts as regards the presence by the Public Prosecutor-General on behalf of government administrations and public organisational units. This will avoid doubts as to the possible scope of the lawyers of the Attorney General of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, it appears justified to refer the project to further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u235	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Regional Audit Chambers and certain other laws (prints Nos 1409 and 1597). I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u236	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the joint committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy... [[But there is no government, Marshal.]] ...to present a report to the committee on a draft government bill amending the Regional Audit Chambers Act... [[Mr. Marshal, there's no one in the government. We'd ask, though.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u237	I can see that, my fellow Member, but the government is not obliged to be here at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u238	...and some other laws, print number 1409. [[There's no government representative!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u239	There isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u240	The Sejm at its 39th meeting of 7 April 2017 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. The committees, after considering the above project at two meetings, 20 April and 6 June 2017, ask the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. At the same time, we present 10 minority applications at the applicant's request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u241	Thank you very much. The Minister is already in the courtroom. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Uściński will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Regional Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Regional Accounting Chambers, print No. 1597. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Regional Financial Chambers Act is urgent and necessary, very necessary. Some self-governments are indebted to themselves unrepentantly. That's the point of putting out fires right now. I will give here an example of the municipality of Ostrowice, the western Pomeranian province, in which the debt has recently been almost 400% the amount of the annual budget. 400%. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of the Government's draft law, the purpose of this law is to strengthen the control and subsidiary functions of regional financial chambers in relation to local government, which will allow, among others. to better counter overindebtedness and thereby strengthen the economic position of local government. The report of the joint committees contains some important changes to the original government project, but the draft law continues to pursue these objectives and the changes made strengthen and improve the functioning of the RIO. It is worth pointing out to the High House that, at the first reading of the government project, proposals were made from the mouth of the opposition to make changes... [[Voice from the room: But which one?]] ...which includes, among other things, to withdraw from the competition procedures at the appointment and dismissal of the Presidents of the Chambers. [[Who said that?]] There have also been suggestions to refresh the colleges themselves in some way, open themselves up to new people and limit the right to de facto lively collegiate functions. We have listened carefully to this discussion and are open to arguments in substance, whether they fall out of the mouth of the PiS or the opposition. Therefore, the key amendments included in the committee's report are precisely the appointment and dismissal of members of colleges and Presidents of Chambers by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Presidents - at the request of the Minister responsible for public administration and the members of the Colleges - at the request of the Presidents through the Minister. An important amendment is also the possibility to rule on the annulment of resolutions and regulations and, in the event of a minor violation of the law, to indicate that they have been issued in breach of the law, in the three-member formations. This amendment will improve the work of the Chambers and will reduce the cost of staff and missions. The change that brings the greatest emotions to the opposition is the clarification that chambers control the financial economy on the basis of the criterion of legality, economy and reliability, and, in the case of commissioned tasks of government administration, the criterion of purpose. What are you afraid of? That RIO Will it point to mismanagement, irrationalness? Do you want to defend those self-governments who are over-indebted to parabanks, for example? I remind you that mismanagement is also illegal. Take a look at the Public Finance Act, the Liability Act for Violation of Public Finance Discipline, and look at the Penal Code, where mismanagement is criminalized. Someone's got to keep an eye on it. They gotta keep an eye on the law in local governments. Today we want to strengthen and improve RIO ... [[Voice from the Chamber: Guards the Regional Audit Chamber.]] ...and as a result, strengthen the local government. The Law and Justice Club supports the proposed bill, while placing an amendment on the hands of the Marshal, which clarifies that the application of the economic criterion for financial management control will in principle only concern debt. In this way, we meet the expectations of local communities who were afraid of this criterion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u243	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr Jacek Protas will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and certain other laws. The project is an attempt to transform an independent and objective supervisory institution so far into a fully subordinate government administration body equipped with powers and tools to repression and discipline local government units according to unclear and vague criteria. With regard to the provisions on the justification of the project, we believe that there is no link between the state of over-indebtedness of a few small municipalities and the effectiveness of the financial control and supervision tools and mechanisms contained in the present Regional Audit Chambers Act. Just see what financial surpluses the local governments have generated in the last year. The rules to prevent over-indebtedness of the JST, as set out in the Public Finance Act, are sufficiently stringent, are sufficient to be properly enforced. The mechanism proposed in this amendment reflects the reluctance and distrust of the government of PiS to local government in Poland, since it provides, first of all, for the complete submission of the regional accounting chambers of government by means of the appointment and dismissal of the presidents of this institution and collegiates, after the amendment of this law, more of his colleagues, and, after all, the regional accounting chambers are institutions of the state administration and not of the government - it is not the same - secondly, unauthorized and unconstitutional extension of the powers of control and supervision of the chambers, primarily by introducing a criterion of economy, reliability and purpose in the supervisory process, while Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 the Constitution states that the activity of the local government is subject to supervision from the point of view of legality - this is the basis of the independence and sovereignty of the local government - and finally the power of the President of the Council of Ministers to dismiss, dissolve or suspend any local government body with an immediate feasibility clause. These changes in local government, district government and voivodship laws are in accordance with the constitutionally guaranteed Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Moreover, the vague and judgmental grounds for such action create uncontrollable freedom to abuse these drastic steps. We also draw attention to the provisions of the article. 8 of this law, which provides for the immediate termination of employment relations with all members of colleges, presidents and vice-presidents of regional financial chambers. They shall infringe Article accordingly. Article 2 and Article 2 24 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This is as usual an instant jump to the stools, but no consideration is given to any circumstances. In summary, the draft law is not due to the need to improve the effectiveness of the RIO, but to the desire to take away the subjectivity and independence of local authorities. It gives the Prime Minister the unwarranted authority to reprimand wojites, mayors, presidents, county and voivodeships and resolution bodies, including their dismissal and resolution. The amendment was adopted in Polish local government with understandable concern and opposition. It also raises huge doubts about the National Council of Regional Courts of Auditors. I quote: The project submitted for consultation is inconsistent in many places, and the proposed regulations conflict with the principles of the rule of law resulting from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Another quote: Doubts are raised as to whether the main objective set by the projectors, i.e. strengthening the safeguards against uncontrolled debt of local government units will be achieved after the proposed changes have been made. The ratio of PiS to self-government also reflects the way in which the law is proceded. First, one project goes to the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Self-Government, then another comes out of the government, then is corrected, sir, efficiently at the subcommittee meeting and then the committee. It's not the first time you've missed the joint government and government committee. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, considering the project to be harmful and non-constitutional and incompatible with the independence of the local government...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u245	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Kukiz Club15...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u246	...on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I submit a motion to reject the project at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u247	Mr Grzegorz Długi will take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. And very briefly. I will not discuss the individual solutions proposed in this bill. I just wanted to stress that we are aware that the current situation and the current shape of the system, in terms of regional chambers, are not the best and need to be improved, but that this project, which contains a number of solutions that can be considered to be progressive, is nevertheless aimed at a very simple solution, which I stated very clearly at the committee's meeting, namely that it intends to change this state institution to a government institution, and therefore it breaks the basic principles of our country, and, by extending its powers, it also breaks the constitution. Therefore, by accepting the need for change and expressing our willingness to discuss how to change, improve the current functioning of the chambers, we cannot agree that this would be at the expense of constitutionality, so that it would be at the expense of the possibility of self-government acting in a self-government manner rather than in a government way. If so, the cheapest solution will be to close the chambers at all. Let the voivode investigate everything, then at least there will be an honest case, there will be no pretending that we have some element of territorial division of the country, division into properties, self-government powers and government powers. It's obvious that there's no consent for that. I hope that the Law and Justice also do not think of such an extreme approach, and therefore I also hope that it will withdraw from these most controversial proposals, especially those of non-constitutional ones. And these non-constitutional proposals are not only a contradiction in terms of scope, but this is also what my previous speaker said here, unfortunately - I say: unfortunately - namely that there is also a contradiction with good customs. You can't throw people out of work with one bill, and that's before this bill comes into force, because it's the right way to read the record that the work relationship ends the day after the announcement. It is, so to speak, an activity that cannot be completely accepted, which unfortunately repeats itself in terms of many of the projects presented by the current government majority. It's in the Foreign Service Act, the D.A., and in other cases. You can't do that by avoiding statutory safeguards for people who are retired, pregnant women, etc., etc. It just doesn't work like that. It's not only illegal, but it's also unethical, which is why we can't support it. This is all the trouble for us because we would be happy to support some of the solutions that are right, which are aimed at improving the work of regional chambers. And in this respect, we would like to discuss, but we cannot support bad solutions. So we are counting on the fact that, however, the adoption of amendments, which have also been tabled here, which are mostly heading in the right direction, perhaps would help us to support this project. Our club, which is a diverse club, which held a discussion on this subject, is divided on the extent to which we can support these changes and in which we cannot support them, while everyone agrees that the changes that are aimed at the political revolution or the changes that are aimed at breaking the Constitution cannot be supported. Therefore, in principle, the club will be opposed to these changes here, while it is open to discussion to support what is legal and compatible with our country's model. Self-governments, however, are our basics. The aim is to make it easier for them to act, to prevent them, for example. debt by force, because let us consider that most of the debt, most of the debt that we are dealing with, is debt at the local government level. And we can't let that happen... [[That's not true. 6% of public debt.]] ...that the ambitions of a given, one or another, a representative, would make the financial possibilities of a given local government run out. I will give here an example of Łódź, where the number of inhabitants is falling and the debt is growing, so this is the way to nowhere. On the other hand, on the other hand, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are not able to support this project, but we are counting on it to be improved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u249	Mr Marek Sowa, the Modern Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on this project. In view of the short time allowed to present my position, I will immediately move on to key issues. I must admit that working in the committee on the government project was a sad time for both the local government and the employees of the regional financial chambers. The rapporteur will be included in the history of the local government as an extremely grim figure. I remember the minister bragging about agreeing on a government project with the local government in his first reading. Today we already know that these arrangements were one big scam, one big scam. [[Applause]] Yes, you fooled the local authorities and once again showed what your word was worth. This bill transforms regional accounting chambers into a government indictment inspection, because it's enough to charge them to remove power. [[Applause]] All the amendments made to the draft law had one purpose: complete submission of the RIO to the government administration. However, there are a few points that I would like to pay more attention to. Many have already talked about the unconstitutionality of this law. You're breaking the rule of sovereign choice. It's gonna make you influence investment decisions. Today, everyone can be blamed for the fact that more revenue could be drawn from a given investment. It can be alleged in the case of a missed investment that this was an informed and deliberate action. This is not the role of government administration. That's why we choose local governments to decide for themselves what direction the municipalities are going to develop in. Another amendment makes this law typically staffing. During this year and a half we have been able to see it many times, because many times you have given such records, but here you are introducing records that will lead to staff cleaning to introduce your Misiewicz colleagues. The style of these changes is cruel, and the scale is very large, because in the case of colleges - 100 percent. The President of the Council of Ministers, who will have to appoint both the Presidents and all the members of the Colleges, is assigned a particular role. I don't have good information for potential volunteers. Looks like the candidates' lists are closed, and there's not gonna be any recruitment. True, it says that the term of office is to last six years, but no one will know the day or the hour. [[He will obey.]] Under any pretext, the Prime Minister will be able to dismiss a member of the College or the President of the Chamber at any time. It serves one. You want an army of obedient party dissidents who will do political purges for your political order in the field. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2, Article 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 4 The legislator provides for the possibility for the President of the Council of Ministers to introduce Commissioners with immediate enforcement and suspension of municipal, district or voivodship bodies. While there is a provision allowing these authorities to appeal to the administrative court or file an appeal, it is virtually impossible to do so. After the suspension, this decision will become final in a short time and the parties will not have the right to claim their reasons. I told you the scale of the changes was large and the form was cruel. Whoever has doubts, I encourage you to read the article. 8: Labour relations based on the provisions of the Law as amended by Art. 1, with the presidents and deputy presidents of the RIO as well as members of the RIO colleges, shall expire on the date of entry into force of this Act. That's about 300 people. Everyone loses their job: pregnant women, protective workers, experienced members of the college who would like to work for a few more years. He who has the opportunity can read it to himself again. Ladies and gentlemen, this law does not deserve any support. This law has one purpose: to bring to the show suspension of well-functioning local governments. The justification of this law has nothing to do with its content. Nonsense told by one of the Members about the over-indebtedness of one municipality... Let me remind you: it is a municipality in Zachodniopomorskie, the smallest municipality, 2.5 thousand, which could have been suspended and dissolved several years ago on the basis of existing regulations. On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern motion to reject a government bill at second reading, and if this proposal does not gain [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your approval - a number of amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u251	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mrs Genowef Tokarska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project being debated today at a rather rapid pace is completely missing the goal to be pursued - and the project is government. The Regional Audit Chamber will not be an auxiliary, advisory or information institution for local governments. RIO is a government body to destroy the self-government of every level. This law, the country from PiS, will ruin self-government, you will ruin what was so good in our Polish conditions. It was the self-government that for these 27 years rebuilt the sense of community among the inhabitants, it was the self-government that liberated civil attitudes in people and changed the image of Polish villages, towns and cities. In this respect, I must stress, we have been a role model even for our Eastern neighbours. It's about how we can manage a public penny. Today's law deprives local governments of their independence. Once again, you're breaking the constitution. By extending the power of the Regional Audit Chamber over the local government, you are acting contrary to Article. 171 of the Constitution, which literally reads: The activity of the local government is subject to supervision from the point of view of legality. In contrast, in the article. 5 of this project you extend the right of control to the criteria of economy and reliability. These records are about making a change in the system. The criteria you introduce into the project are not bad at all, they are implemented by all local authorities. But this is subject to self-esteem, social evaluation, assessment of the residents concerned. The decisions in the local government are not one man's will: the governor, the mayor, the treasurer or the chairman of the council. They are subject to all provisions of financial law, they must be included in the plans, in financial forecasts, in development, in investment, in the budgets of units approved by the municipalities, districts or seymists. Their purpose and cost-effectiveness are assessed as the most accurate, because they assess the inhabitants of a specific community and bodies appointed by local authorities. Rulers, I feel like they don't know that. The project is a typical example of the next stage of local government ownership and centralization of decisions concerning local government units. In fact, it seems unbelievable that deciding on the territorial scope of the Chamber, its premises, its premises or the number of members of the college ruling will take place without an opinion, without the knowledge of the host of the given voivodship, without the opinion of the sejm of the voivodship. Amendment of Article 16 and deletion of Article. 15a means that the draft completely eliminates the competition procedure when the President of the Chamber and all members of the college are appointed. The President of the Chamber... I'm not going to go into detail here anymore. This project is another personnel bill. The employees of the Regional Audit Chamber lose their employment relationship by virtue of the Act, have no possibility of appealing or obtaining any compensation. Moreover, no one knows how the new members of the college will be appointed. Certainly, political affiliation to Law and Justice will be the dominant criterion for appointment in the RIO. The original government project contained a lot of controversy, it was hostile, unfavorable, even hostile to the local government. You're still saying here today that it's done to prevent over-indebtedness. We know these were occasional cases. You emphasized that self-governments don't respect recommendations, and even that they tend to mix. Total bullshit. But it was agreed with the joint committee of government and government. This time, what happened after the amendments, both in the subcommittee and in the committee, this is mere deception, there is no agreement with the local government. It's just cheating. Amendments have not been agreed. They are unconstitutional, they will not allow local governments to manage themselves. They provide an excellent opportunity for quick, because under immediate feasibility, the introduction of commissioners in place of local authorities. Generally speaking, it's a change of body, I think that's what it's all about. This project, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, we are replacing state control, which none of us are questioning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] led by RIO, for government control, specifically: PiS-owska. Under the motto of changing regional financial chambers, you are assassinating the local government. Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u253	Thank you very much, Member. Now on behalf of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u254	...I'm making amendments to this project, but before that, I want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u255	...the circles of the European Union of Democrats...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u256	...to inform you that we will support the motion to reject the bill at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u257	...the vote will be taken by Mr Stanisław Huskowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Circle of the European Union of European Democrats, I would like to add to a series of criticisms of the draft presented, the critical voices put forward by Mr Protas, Mr Owl and Mrs Tokarska. I will not repeat all the arguments, absolutely we, Members of the European Union of Democrats, share these concerns. I would just like to say that among the protesters are all organizations, or the main self-government organizations, such as: the Union of Polish Metropolises, the Union of Polish Districts, the Union of Polish Cities, the Union of Polish Voivodships, the Union of Polish Cities and the Union of Polish Municipalities. A few days ago, on behalf of these organisations, an appeal was made, a letter to Members, in particular from the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy, to reject the wrong solutions proposed in this project and to stress what was said by my previous speakers, that the joint committee had consulted another project and that the draft had been amended in the course of the work of the subcommittee and committees. It has been changed in a flagrant way that violates the constitution and grossly destroys self-government. In particular, it is a matter of Article. 5, to which the signatories of this letter point out, in which there is a slight change in the wording, but this completely changes the sense, namely when the powers of the Chambers are conferred, the competence to assess the purpose of any investment, local government projects. The Union of European Democrats will clearly vote against this evil, destructive self-government and unconstitutional project, and if this proposal does not get the support of the House, which is expected, it will support the amendments. Finally, I would like to add that in the context of this project it becomes understandable to leave PiS and PiS President Jarosław Kaczyński from the project previously notified, about the two-cadence of local authorities with the right to act backwards, to move to another way of destroying the local government, which in its enormous mass does not share the joy of the changes that PiS is introducing in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u259	Thank you very much. 27 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting a question time for one minute. [[One and a half minutes.]] Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochock, the Civic Platform Club, will be the first to speak. [[One and a half minutes.]] You're welcome. You don't have an MP? [[Mr. Marshal could give us a minute and a half.]] Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform Club. This is a very large minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Regional Audit Chamber is a kind of court for the local government, and the court should be independent and independent of the authorities. RIO Act ends with its independence under the slogans, of course, improving the work and control of the sovereign. The lack of confidence of PiS in honestly working Poles is absolutely regrettable. Or maybe it's a law that's a further solution than the so-called one. Two-channel backwards? After the entry into force of this law, only Pisiewicz, mediocre, but faithful, will be a local court, and this is unfortunately often the final court. The Act bans labour relations, which is not only contrary to the position of the Constitutional Tribunal, but is simply obscene. And the question is, what are the reasons for one day's banishment of the working relationships of honest workers before the end of their term of office, [[♪ The bell ♪]] including specially protected persons - pregnant women and those covered by pre-retirement protection? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u261	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u262	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The bill is another example of the Human Rights and Justice Act, in which you want to assign the Prime Minister the election of members of the Regional Financial Chambers, introduce new Misiewiczs, increase their powers in order to have tools to fight against disobedient local governments. All self-government corporations were alarmed about the unconstitutionality of this project, but also by the Parliamentary Legislative Office, which referred to the wording of the article at the last meeting of the subcommittee. 171 saying that the activity of local government is subject to supervision from the point of view of legality. You are introducing further sanctions that will oblige local governments to pass on to RIO officials any information they demand, and whoever does not, will be fined. I appeal to you: [[♪ The bell ♪]] do not destroy the 27-year achievements of the Polish self-government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u263	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is a sinister project for all local governments, local governments, candidates for local government. Unfortunately, he threatens one that even in the city council or in the commune council, where there will be one opponent, two, ten, but minority, will report to the RIO and will kindly report. I'd like to know if there'll be mechanisms to prevent polite reporting. Will all voices be recorded and subjected to such interpretational transparency, i.e. if there is a polite report, will this polite report be found on the Internet, we will know that the polite report made this one and this one? And the other thing. Please tell me - because this is the reason for what will probably be next - when and what awaits us in the autumn, when you will introduce a new project of electoral ordination. Whether the new electoral ordination plus RIO is really gonna be a security charge [[♪ The bell ♪]] Local governments and self-governments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u265	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Changes in the law by the local authorities were called an attempt to control local authorities from outside. Local governments have their investment plans, and in the context of the EU funds they want to use, they will have to borrow to invest in large-scale development projects. Why isn't there full funding for education, social services, health care? You're charging a local government unit with tasks, and there's no money going on. That's what it looks like at community level. Meanwhile, the Government of Law and Justice wants to give regional accounting chambers where it will place people from its structures, of course without a competition, a bigger area for control, among others. municipal companies, to study economy and purpose. Every mayor, mayor, president knows best what is a priority in a given community. Proposal for a new Article. 10b Act, which obliges RIO [[♪ The bell ♪]] To notify law enforcement, it's a simple way to look for hooks on political opponents. Why do you want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u267	Thank you. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u268	This is a simple attack on the independence of local governments. It's just a simple attack. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u269	Thank you, Member. The Member can never fit in time. I'm so sorry. Please, Mrs Skowronska. [[I hope I can make it.]] Me too. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u270	Questions to the government, so no access. Why do you, as a government, support the wrong solutions? It's an attempt on the government. It's a lex PiS law, which is a hood court for local governments. It's a staff bill, that bill you're releasing 100%. persons who are employed in accounting chambers. It's a law that has lex Duda syndrome, breaking the constitution. This is once again a bill that violates the constitution. Aren't you ashamed that after you subjugated the courts and violated the Constitution, after you subjugated the television system, you once again tried to subjugate the authorities and assassinate them? Why are you doing this? And wouldn't you be the first victim to be President Opole who didn't sign a deal with Jack Kurski for the Opole Festival? Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u271	And that's great, my fellow Member, you fit perfectly. [[That's your motivation.]] Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u272	High Izbo! Minister! What is the value of any agreement between the government and the government in the joint committee on this matter? What's the value? I suggest we put out the committee. Like a middle school or a regulation, the solution is that it will be the Prime Minister's finger to show who on the part of the local government is to sit there. You don't have to just go juggling. [[Applause]] Here's another thing. I was talking about the fact that this bill is for the Prime Minister to have RIO presidents, all of RIO's deputies. under his finger, he had local governments under his shoe. So we have a new form of saying, after retreating from two-cadence backwards, that it's not with a stick, it's with wood. [[Well, there's not enough time yet. Go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u273	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u274	Great, I don't have the time. I still have a lot of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u275	No, thank you, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u276	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u277	And the question is asked by Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform Club. [[The time hasn't been activated.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u278	Dear Marshal, Minister! How can self-government spending be made a criterion of purpose? How can political decisions by a democratically elected governor, president, mayor or voivodship board be assessed arbitraryly by the government through a new RIO, which de facto ceases to be a state institution and becomes an arm, a government tool? This is contrary not only to the idea of self-government, but also to the constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u279	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u280	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Act subordinates the Regional Audit Chamber to the government administration and at the same time gives the Prime Minister special powers to delegate commissioners with immediate feasibility to the authorities of municipalities, powiats and voivodships. There is a special kind of dependency here. The Prime Minister has the right to dismiss the President at any time and therefore makes him fully dependent. I would like to ask, what is the purpose of so much submission to these structures. Is this just about the cast, or do you want to get whipped at local governments? [[It's not just that.]] It's just that the regional accountant's gonna point to a crime, your prosecutor's gonna prosecute, and now your judge's gonna convict because you already have time to jump the courts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u281	The question is asked by Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the extension of control by regional audit chambers over the activities of municipal companies. Local government units to carry out tasks of general interest shall appoint the companies as founding acts. It often happens that in tenders for the execution of orders announced by the local government, e.g. waste management, management of the sports hall, starting its own companies. The Supreme Audit Chamber in 2016 assessed municipal companies as inefficient. Inconclusive rules allow companies with local governments to operate outside the public utility zone and carry out economically unjustified projects. And the question is: Will the revision of the rules reduce the transfer of financial risks and non-indebtedness outside local government units? The above mentioned local authorities guarantee the liabilities of their companies, so the risk is only seemingly transferred outside the local government units. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u283	The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! No one who will be familiar with the draft law on regional accounting chambers has any doubt that it is a staff law. He's got one goal. The entry into force of this law means the termination by virtue of the law of employment relationship with the presidents and vice-presidents of regional financial chambers. Working relations with members of the college will be resolved within 3 months. It's an absolute purge. The performance of these functions requires immense knowledge, experience, professionalism. There are no lucrative wages here, ladies and gentlemen. Regional clearing houses carry out a lot of tasks and cannot do staff cleaning without damaging their functioning, for local governments. Who's gonna replace these people? It's an attempt on independent self-governments. What is the justification for such brutal interference in Polish local governments? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u285	The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow... [[Voice from the room: One more time?]] Excuse me, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u286	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to hear the answer to the question about this situation. Under the new rules, regulators will now examine the finances of the local government not only on the basis of compliance, but also on the basis of cost-effectiveness and will have to assess the spending by the local government, e.g. money that will be directed to the in vitro program. We have such dilemmas. The head of the RIO, elected by a committee composed of representatives of the governing party, is aware of its being or not being in the hands of the Prime Minister, is to decide what to do with expenditure on the in vitro programme, knowing that this programme is not accepted by the Prime Minister and the Government in any way and was thrown into the basket by Minister Radziwiłłł. And my question: Is this the opinion of the head of RIO You think the minister might be an objective opinion? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u287	The question is asked by Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Working for its own in the pre-emptive-resolution system has reached RIO. The criterion of reliability, economy is just a smokescreen. You forgot that RIO is a public institution, a state institution, not a government institution, and Mrs Beata Szydło has the constitution for nothing, so this element is not important either. You throw one out of the vending machine and replace the other. You're ruining the years of work of a lot of self-government people all over Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! If you can't put your prominent activists in local governments, try to work again. It's still a long way from the local elections. RIO he will lose his independence and be subject to the Prime Minister, which is contrary to the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u289	The question is asked by Mrs Genowef Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. First of all, you have eliminated the competition procedure for the appointment of presidents and members of colleges, so the question is simple: In what way, then, what will be the mechanism, how will the appointment of people be technically carried out? And second question. According to the Act, the authorities of the voivodship, district and commune are entitled to lodge a complaint for the supervisory decision. I ask: What possibility will these authorities have to lodge this complaint? How does the government see this authority's technical ability to work and file a complaint? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u291	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wonder if you've done all this well, or if you've had enough Misiewicz to cast all this. I'm afraid because what the bill is, it's just so many places. [[They're multiplying.]] The question is: Is the unemployment rate at the same time Can you manage to fill all these positions? I have already suggested that such laws should also include a list of people who are already prepared to take up these posts. It would really make things easier. The Prime Minister would simply have one signature, the whole list would have been prepared and the case would have been dealt with. This is another example that you are preparing something that will be the weapon of the fight against self-government. You don't like self-government. You do everything you can to trample on self-government Poland. Now you've come up with an instrument that's going to be used to chase it by your people in regional accounting chambers where there's an independent and unsubstantiated self-governmentman. Congratulations on the idea. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u293	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Self-government is a common good developed with a large canopy for 27 years. It turns out that this common good is no value for the PiS. You want to destroy it. Today we have this situation, that you take over regional clearing houses on the one hand, and on the other hand you already have your voivodships. Therefore, an act of annulment of Polish self-government democracy is actually carried out. You're essentially Democrats. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u295	Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With these opinions, comments, and questions, when you listen to them, it is actually like with the voice of a cryer in the wilderness or speaking to the deaf. In fact, it is difficult for the government to even ask questions, because these are political guidelines for submission to everything, centralization, etc. In fact, I have a question for those of you who were in the local government, some of you have probably also created this local government. What does that mean, self-government? It means that residents are hosted by their representatives on the city council or by executives. How can you be so blind to the solutions that destroy this self-government that really restore national councils? Of course, regional accounting offices are only one of the stages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is about self-government, leading to national councils. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u297	The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club. Isn't the Member in the O.R.?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me put it this way: they sat down, sat down and sat down. Gentlemen, this bill you're presenting is a puriazum. Every article is just a total failure. I'm really scared to think about what you're still working on. First you cast the voivodships with your party nominates, then you invented the Sasin Act, which was also a total puriazum. You were sitting there thinking about how to get into these local governments. You came up with the RIO bill. Gentlemen, there are idiotic articles, like art. 23, which says that the Prime Minister is to sign permissions for additional work. Do you think the Prime Minister has nothing to do to sign the work of 200 members of his class? Or are you trying to show that the Prime Minister is supposed to be dealing with completely irrelevant things? You guys really created a total psychic. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: That's it.]] [[A voice from the hall: And that's how he does it, someone else does it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u299	The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Local government reform, in particular the introduction of local governments at this lowest municipal level, is one of the greatest achievements of Polish democracy. No fundamental changes need to be made in this respect, because we can lose these achievements. In particular, no changes can be made which lead to the politicisation of regional accounting chambers. The Prime Minister's appointment leads to such consequences. The Act abolishes the obligation to hold any competitions for the President and members of colleges, and the appeal may take place at any time. My question: How will the recruitment of members of RIO colleges be conducted? Are only political criteria, political nominations foreseen? How will the impartiality of collegiate members be guaranteed, who will be fully subject to a politician, who is undoubtedly Prime Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u301	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think the number of Members present on the right indicates that PiS does not understand the local government at all and does not know what a local government is. This law on regional accounting chambers clearly demonstrates this. You introduce additional criteria considered by the Chamber, i.e. criteria of reliability and economy, when the Constitution expressly states that the sole criterion for the examination of resolutions by the RIO may be a criterion of legality. This law is heading directly towards the liquidation of local authorities. What will individual local government councils do? It is on the boards of individual units of the local government that the examination of the reliability and cost-effectiveness of their resolutions, including financial resolutions, is based on. The state does not, of course, distinguish between a government agency and a state agency, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because you're aiming for one goal, so that all the agencies are the PiS agencies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u303	Thank you. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you what the self-governments did to you that you decided to destroy them. In fact, it's in the article. 2, Article 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 4 you write that from these unlawful decisions the prime minister of the local government will be able to appeal. I have a question. How can the municipality council appeal if the chairman of the municipality council cannot convene a meeting of this council to take such decisions? How can the chairman call a meeting of the county council if this is exactly the case? What should the governor, the president or the mayor, who has on the date of the decision of the Prime Minister not to enter the office, not to use the resources of this office, cannot use the documents? How is this appeal to be prepared? After all, this is typing something that can't actually be applied in practice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u305	The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Two lines. First case, Art. Five, I've already signaled it in the subcommittee. I believe that these comments are correct. The changes you propose in this article. 5, raises great legal doubts. The question is whether the government party is able to withdraw from these changes in Article. 5, because this is a manifest violation of the law. The second point is these transitional elements, because I have the impression that there must be a profound reform here, a change must be made, but there must be transition periods. Somewhere around here, it's gone. It is a pity that in this whole discussion today - here my appeal to colleagues from the POs, PSL - has run out of mererythics, and I see that you have received a set of very political and not substantive questions. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] I feel like a lot of people haven't even read the current RIO Act. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's just... [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the story. [[Applause]] [[Andrzej, you're the one doing the charts.]] [[Duck gave you those schedules.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u307	The question is asked by Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am surprised that the chairman of the self-government committee gives such opinions. [[Applause]] This is unacceptable, Mr President. [[Instead of defending self-government.]] And these changes are very dangerous for Polish self-government, although it is not known from now on that PiS does not like local governments and will do everything to subdue them to the central authority to create tools of pressure on the unfavorable PiS self-government. For 25 years, the clearing houses were independent and apolitical. The next governments respected local governments, respected the way they controlled municipal finances. We know, now absolute power is in the hands of the PiS, but one day, hopefully, as soon as possible, you'll stop ruling. Did you ever wonder what would happen then? It's your people who will be here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fired...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u309	The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u310	...and that harmful bill of yours will be changed someday. What's all this for? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u311	...Message Stefan Romecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that, according to the draft law, labour relations are dissolved overnight, even in the case of protected persons, e.g. pregnant women, retired people and protected trade unions? Is that what this good change looks like? You don't have to have the heart to have people like you, like I mentioned, slow down. You're doing the same thing as your predecessors... [[They don't.]] ...but the alternative is Kukiz.15. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Well, well, well. Why do you wish so badly for Poles?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u313	The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. [[Be careful, Michael.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, on December 16th, there was a piece of paper hanging here, free media in the Sejm, at the moment should hang a piece of paper, because you are constantly raping him through your actions, by taking over his finances. I would just like to mention a few points. First of all, about the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland ensures the independence of local self-government units. I would like to remind you of the subsidiarity principle of the State and I would also like to remind you that only the Supreme Audit Chamber has the right to exercise control on the basis of the criteria of economy and reliability. PiS has a rule, that's one rule taken from Lenin - the staff. This is another personnel bill. A law to make the government administration Prime Minister Szydło have a significant impact, a direct impact and a final impact on formation [[♪ The bell ♪]] the national clearing house. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u315	The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another piece in puzzles that you are probably putting together, your own Poland, because I wonder what it will be like when RIO examines the municipalities for economy. Isn't the House going to be in an ambiguous situation when she has to overlook the mismanagement forced by the government? An example is e.g. education funding, especially in rural communities. The government, forcing municipalities to run schools with a small number of students, forces municipalities to spend money on their education contrary to common sense. Publishing around 20,000. Once a year, one student has little in common with the economy in your issue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u317	The discussion is closed... As it was reported during the second reading... Sorry, I forgot. Mr Sebastian Gwałek, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Home Affairs. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just gonna address a few questions that have been raised here, substantive. The question was why there was purpose. I think it's a mistake. Purpose has always been as a criterion for assessment by regional clearing houses. There is also a question of the uncontrolled activities of the regional financial chambers in this seemingly new issue. It is important to remember that RIO's judicial activity it is subject to review by administrative courts, so there is no such thing as, so to speak, the volition of regional chambers of account in the field of court. We also specify in the Act, because there is also such a question, that the supervision of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Regional Financial Chambers is only in terms of administrative and not substantive and judicial criteria. It's been unclear so far. What are the objectives of the project? One of the questions came up, too. The aim of this project is to terminate, among others. illegal debt practices, as well as improving the functioning of regional financial chambers, give regional chambers control tools. It was also about the issue of calling, how it should look. The institution of appointment is very well described in the Labour Code. On the basis of these records, appointments will take place. The cost-effectiveness criterion was introduced in the subcommittee because such a question was asked whether the government would withdraw, it was a proposal from Members. The final shape, as I say, will be clarified by the government. The bill concerns... The question has been raised... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[The Minister's against it? I'm asking about the government's position.]] The High House, so to speak, decides. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the hall: Government position.]] The government's position towards a government project - there is no such thing. The government presented a project in which there was no such criterion. The High Chamber has decided, i.e. It has not yet decided, for the time being, this is a proposal in the form of amendments which provides for an extension of this criterion. And there's also the question of losing your employment relationship or ending your employment relationship. It only concerns collegiates, because in this part that has been introduced as part of the amendments, we are also talking about the appointment of collegiates, earlier we were talking about It's about the presidents, it's not about the employees, so pregnant women or protected people can also sleep peacefully, and there won't be any such problems. Thank you. [[On what grounds won't it be?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u319	Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: We'll take care of it. [[Please?]] We'll take care of it. [[Unless someone else decides otherwise.]] The committee rapporteur, Mr Piotr Uściński, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In this discussion, in these questions that were addressed to the Minister, I found some of these threads that are worth answering or correcting as rapporteur for the committee to you. Firstly, he was, there was a charge in these questions that the government project was being corrected in parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, as parliamentarians, you should even demand that you be able to improve government projects in Parliament. That's what our parliamentarianism is all about... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Don't be so hypocritical.]] ...that's the discussion, that's the work in committees and subcommittees, that we can projects, all that come to us, improve. [[Tighten it up.]] Government projects can also be improved at the stage of Parliament's work. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] That's why we're parliamentarians. There have been voices in the previous discussion, we have listened to these voices and the bill is improved at Parliament level. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There is, there is one such information. There may have been more, but there was one piece of information. Clearly, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus did not read the committee's report, but some previous report, because in the article. 23, which you are referring to, is not in the report of the Prime Minister's committee, but is the Minister responsible for home affairs as a person who has the right to exempt a member or the President of the Chamber from the prohibition of extra earnings. As far as pregnant women are concerned, this was the subject at the committee meeting in the debate, but no one has tabled an amendment to resolve this problem. I asked him personally to check to see if there were any such cases. There is said to be one pregnant person and here I welcome the declaration and thank you for it, Minister, for the declaration from the Ministry that this person will not be harmed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And the others will get hurt?]] I understand that the employment relationship will be extended and that this does not need to be regulated by law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: On what grounds?]] It doesn't have to be regulated by law. Thank you very much. [[You said you wouldn't hurt one person. Is there gonna be any other harm?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u321	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Regional Audit Chambers are tasked with controlling local government units and assisting them in financial management. The most important objective is, of course, to prevent the over-indebtedness of individuals. Despite this, it happens that local governments are indebted to giant amounts that generate terror and practically prevent not only any investment but simply functioning. It happens to leave the successors of the burnt earth. There are often cases where RIO finds very significant infringements of law or public finances discipline. Despite this, there is no reaction of the uncle, the mayor, the president or the old man to the recommendations, to the mistakes and violations repeated in the years to come. Even then, the RIO makes too little use of the possibility of requesting a suspension procedure. Therefore, I have questions: Will the proposed law enrich RIO for appropriate instruments to effectively counter over-indebtedness of local governments? Will it help to combat non-compliance with the conclusions of the reports? Will it contribute to more frequent referrals to the Ombudsman of public finance discipline and request appropriate measures for breach of public finance discipline? Will RIO obtain debt monitoring tools for municipal companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u323	To the third...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u324	No harm will come to anyone. [[Voice from the room: On what grounds?]] [[A voice from the hall: Grace is not done.]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 16 and 17 of the agenda: 16. First reading of the government bill amending the Act on subscription fees and the Act on Radiophony and Television (Print No 1587). 17. First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and repealing the Act on Subscription Fees (Print No 1497). I now ask the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Piotr Gliński, to present the justification for the government bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the proposed law on amending the Act on subscription fees and the Act on Radiophony and Television, contained in Seym printing No 1587, is to improve the efficiency of the collection of subscription fees as a source of funding for the implementation of public broadcasting missions. The Act does not introduce any new fees for any group of citizens. As is the case at present, each holder of a radio or television receiver who is ready to receive the emissions must and will be obliged to register receivers and pay subscription fees. The proposed regulation is intended only to ensure a more adequate, stable and independent financing of public media tasks so that these tasks can be carried out without commercial pressure. The need to adopt the proposed law is due to the practical dysfunction of existing solutions regarding subscription fees. It is proposed to counter this by amending the Act on subscription fees including television service providers to facilitate the registration of radio and television receivers and the identification of households obliged to pay subscription fees. What is the current status of these subscription fees in Poland? Currently, the definition of subscription fees is regulated in the Act, they are of a specific public tribute. It is a compulsory, non-refundable, targeted and non-budget public-law service for the fulfilment of the State's constitutional tasks in financing the public media mission. The Act combines them with the use of radio and television receivers on the presumption that a person with a receiver is using this receiver immediately. For the purposes of charging subscription fees, receivers shall be registered under an administrative penalty of 30 times a monthly fee. It's all in the bill so far. One of the main reasons for the dysfunction of the existing subscription fee collection system is failure to comply with the obligation to register receivers. In conjunction with the lack of real means of controlling use, having receivers in residential premises above. the situation is conducive to leaks in the system. Since 1994, there has been a steady decrease in the number of registered radio and television subscribers. In 1993, there were almost 11 million of them, including about 1 million of them exempt from the payment of charges, while in 2015 there were less than 7 million registered subscribers, including slightly more than 3 million of them released. In Poland there are some 13.6 million households. According to CUS data in about 97% from which there are television sets, and approx. 66% households use pay-TV services, including cable, satellite, IPTV digital platforms, etc. Meanwhile, the obligation to register receivers complements 49.5% households, of which 47.2% he's entitled to layoffs. It is estimated that households regularly paying subscription fees in Poland, after deduction of late payments and claims received by execution, are around 13%. So only 13%. households pay their subscription regularly. Subscription fees for non-domestic receivers - business and institutions - regulate about 12% entities. As a result, Poland has the largest loss of subscription fees among European countries. In other countries, losses in the collection of similar charges are usually not more than a few percent. With us, we estimate, because it depends on what measure we're going to apply, this loss is certainly more than 50%, most likely 60%. As a result of the dysfunction of the subscription fee collection system in Poland, public funding of public media is unstable and insufficient, which leads to the commercialisation of the program offer, which is detrimental to the execution of the public mission. On the scale of the whole public media system, fluctuations are evident, and in the long term there is a decrease in the funds transferred to these broadcasters from subscription fees. The missionary activity of the public radio station is financed in approx. 60-80% of the subscription, while the costs of the mission of the Polish Television - only in approx. 30%. As a result, the share of public funds in the public television budget is the lowest in Europe in Poland. For years it has been pointed out that the level of public funding of Polish public media is insufficient in relation to the fulfilment of their statutory tasks. The situation is all the more serious and urgent that, according to the KRRiT's 2017 forecast, the cost of the TVP mission from the subscription is to continue to fall until the level of approx. 22% , and in the case of Polish Radio and regional radio stations - up to 66% and 71% respectively. Public media expenditure in Poland is low against other European countries, also in the light of general economic indicators. For example, while in 2013 public media revenues In several European countries surveyed, the average was 0.23% GDP, this share in Poland was 0.04% GDP. General assumptions for the proposed amendments. It is proposed to improve the collection of subscription fees by including pay-TV service providers in the process of facilitating the registration of receivers and the identification of entities required to pay subscription fees. It is particularly gross if there is no registration and payment of subscription fees when such services are used, when it is obvious that the receiver is not in possession of the receiver. This is because there is often a particular mix of remuneration for the private service of providing paid television, wrongly referred to as subscription, and public tribute, which is a subscription and which is a subscription fee for the performance of public broadcasting missions. It should be noted that the basis for the subscription fees - I recall, at the basis of the law already in force - is the assumption that the whole society in the Community is benefiting from the public broadcasting of its public service mission. Therefore, the system of fees allocated for this purpose in Poland and in other countries is not dependent on whether the citizen is using public media programs and services or using other media services. These fees are not equivalent. Just because someone pays for satellite or cable TV doesn't mean they pay their subscription automatically. Subscription fees correspond to the general nature of public media services and their role in the exercise of the right to information, access to cultural goods or participation in the social debate. The proposed amendment does not propose an obligation on pay-TV service providers to collect subscription fees, but merely entrust them with a purely informative obligation to provide basic data to persons with whom they have contracts for the provision of paid-TV services. Within them, a pay-TV service provider would be required to inform the so-called. the designated operator, in this case Poland Post, as has been the case so far, of any new contract it has concluded for the provision of pay-TV, and the designated operator would be entitled to request information about subscribers from the pay-TV service provider in order to determine the entity required to pay the subscription fee, its collection or execution. When concluding the contract, the pay-TV provider would also be required to provide the customer with information about the obligation to register the receiver and to pay subscription fees. So it's just a matter of passing on information. The customer would be informed that some of his personal data will be transferred to the designated operator. I repeat, I stress, I will continue to talk about this - only some personal data. The transitional regulation also provides for a one-time transmission by the television provider to the designated operator of information about the recipients of his services also in the above mentioned. the purpose and the transmission by him to customers of the presumption that the contract for the supply of pay-TV is linked to the possession of a television receiver which is subject to registration. The pay-TV service provider will also be required to inform its customers in the above mentioned. a communication that it will transmit certain personal data to the designated operator. The pay-TV service provider will also be required to submit registrations if the customer decides to register the receiver via this provider. Registration through a pay-TV service provider will therefore only be a customer's right. It's not gonna be a warrant-- he's gonna be able to use it or he's not. Further activities related to the recording of receivers, collection of fees, subscription control and verification of exemptions will be carried out by the designated operator, i.e. so far - by the Polish Post. Specific solutions. The Act introduces a presumption of possession of a television receiver by a person who is a party to a contract for the supply of paid television. This presumption is justified by the fact that it would not be advisable to conclude a contract with a pay-TV service provider without having a receiver to use its services. The proposed regulation envisages defining key concepts for the proposed solutions, including the concept of a pay-TV service provider and the concept of a contract for providing this service. Such a service would be provided by operators distributing television programmes - not e.g. sender of coded paid programmes - providing access to packages on the basis of contracts, not e.g. operators of open terrestrial digital television multiplex. At present, the definition of pay-TV service providers will include operators such as cable network operators, digital TV platform operators, xDSL programme distribution service providers and IPTV services - these are new types of cable, new types using new ICT technologies. So we limit this scope to entities that meet a certain definition. There are already allegations in public space that e.g. This does not apply to the use of video on demand or to digital terrestrial television. The law often has to be adapted to reality. We have decided on such a range of services and such a definition of the entities that we ask for cooperation in order to achieve the purpose of this law as is possible from the point of view of the legal tool used. As indicated above, the Act maintains the obligation to register a radio or television receiver. The receiver holder will be able to perform this obligation via Polish Post or pay-TV service provider. It's his decision. The absence of registration via a pay-TV service provider will not affect the validity of the contract for the provision of pay-TV or the manner in which the service is provided by the provider. However, the person who does not register the receiver at the post office or via the supplier will be, but exactly as is currently the case, subject to a fee for the use of an unregistered receiver of 30 times the subscription fee. So we're not introducing any new punishment either. This is a punishment that results from the existing law. The Act proposes improving control mechanisms. And this is the main purpose of this law, as I said - sealing the system, which simply does not work in Poland. In the first place, pay-TV providers will be required to provide information on any contract for the provision of pay-TV and basic information concerning the person with whom such a contract has been concluded. As a result, the designated operator, i.e. Poczta Polska, will be kept informed of the persons who should register the receiver and pay the subscription fee. In addition, the operator appointed by law to collect licence fees shall be given competence to request information from pay-TV service providers on the persons using these services. Similarly, pay-TV operators will also carry out a basic service or, in short, according to legal terminology, will carry out a public task. Such public tasks are imposed on non-governmental, non-public institutions by many other laws in force in Poland and it is nothing special, it does not break the legal order and is legally lege artis. Such a request would be individual, i.e. it would be a question and relate to individual persons or addresses. The designated operator will not be able to address pay-TV service providers with a general request for all customers or groups thereof. Each request from the designated operator shall be for a single customer. Where a designated operator is informed of any contract concluded for the provision of pay-TV, it is assumed that a request for information from a pay-TV provider would be addressed only in exceptional cases, e.g. if the receiver is not registered by the person who had a contract to provide pay-TV or if it is otherwise established that there are receivers at the address of the person, company or institution. It is necessary to obtain such data in order to determine the entity required to pay the licence fee, its collection or enforcement. Without these data, the designated operator would not have been able to proceed with the collection of subscription fees from persons who have unregistered radio or television receivers. The scope of the data provided to the designated operator also meets the adequacy requirement, i.e. proportionality of data. Pay-TV providers have much broader customer databases, including not only address data but also contract details, packages and programs preferred by the client, transaction history or payment information. These data are necessary for the operation of pay-TV service providers but do not have any effect on the obligation to pay subscription fees. And we're not interested in the data in this bill. The collection of only part of the data held by the pay-TV service provider cannot therefore be considered as copying of the data sets. They will be obliged to provide from a significant number of data only part of the information about their clients which is necessary for the establishment of the entity required to pay the subscription fee, its collection or execution. The information obligation would only be relevant data, i.e. the name and address of the customer and the address of the customer, the address of use of the service and the start date of use of the service or the PESEL number, and, where there is no PESEL, the identity card number, NIP or KRS, depending on what is available, what is included in the contract. In addition, the request for information and the corresponding obligation of the provider to provide information will apply only to customers using pay-TV services and not to other services provided by its provider, e.g. telephone or Internet access, because they are not related to having a receiver ready to receive. It should be stressed that the transmission of the data to the designated operator will also not constitute a breach of the company's secrecy. The protection would be subject to bases containing all information exchanged between the trader and the customer where their transfer could be used for competitive activities by the entity receiving the data. The project essentially limits the number of personal data, as I mentioned, transferred to the designated operator. I repeat, therefore, there will be no transmission of other data contained in the databases of pay TV providers, such as details of contracts, packages, preferred programs, etc., transaction history or information on the amount of payments. The designated operator will only be able to use the data received for the purpose of charging subscription fees. There is therefore no risk that it will use this data to compete with pay-TV providers. Especially since Poczta Polska does not carry out such activities. The project aims to allow the use of the data obtained only for a specific purpose - the collection of public-law tributes. Information on contracts for the provision of pay-TV and on persons with whom such contracts have been concluded is expected to be provided via an electronic system to be created by the designated operator. This system will include a register of people with a radio or television receiver and will allow the provider of pay-TV services to send the above. information. In view of the fact that the designated operator pays a commission on the licence fees collected, it is justified that it is obliged to set up such a system and then to make it available free of charge to pay-TV service providers. This system will have to ensure the security of personal data and comply with the requirements set out in the Regulation based on the IT Act governing the activities of public entities. The Minister responsible for Communications will control the functioning of the system. By providing personal data to the designated operator, the pay-TV service provider will be required to inform the customer concerned. The consent of each customer of the pay-TV provider will not be required to transmit data to the designated operator. In accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, the processing of data is permitted without the consent of the data subject if it is necessary to exercise the right or to fulfil the obligation under the law. And this is the case in the proposed regulation, so that the various types of allegations that already appear in public space as a backup, concerning this proposed amendment, and that this is contrary to the Personal Data Protection Act, have no legal basis. Polish law in specific cases arising precisely from the law allows for the transfer of part of the data in an appropriate manner and under appropriate conditions. High Seym! All obligations imposed on pay-TV providers provided for in the proposed amendment of the Act as generating costs on their part will entail compensation for them. This compensation will be based on costs incurred by suppliers, but will also include a reasonable profit - not less than 6% and not more than 10% costs incurred. The KRRiT will, by means of a regulation, determine the amount of compensation and the method and method of payment thereof. This compensation will be paid from the proceeds of subscription fees collected by the Polish Post Office. We are counting on this issue, in general on the implementation of this law, to cooperate with pay-TV operators. At the same time, it is proposed to modify the rules for establishing compensation for the performance of public tasks for the designated operator. Currently, remuneration is determined by means of an agreement concluded by the Polish Post with the National Radio and Television Council. It is proposed that compensation for the designated operator be determined in the same way as compensation for pay-TV service providers. The Act will indicate that the designated operator is entitled to compensation for the provision of certain public services and that the amount and method of payment will be specified in the KRRiT Regulation. A review of the performance of the pay-TV provider's obligations regarding the collection of registration declarations as well as the provision of information on persons who have concluded a contract for the supply of pay-TV, in response to individual requests from the designated operator, is proposed to entrust the National Radio and Television Council. This corresponds to the function of that authority as competent for the financing of public media missions in the public interest in radio and television, on which the watchman, in the light of Article, is responsible. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 Constitution stands for the KRRiT. It shall also have competence with regard to the providers of pay-TV services in connection with the keeping of a register of distributed programmes by the Chairman of the KRRiT. As part of the control of the implementation of the obligations imposed on pay-TV service providers, the Chairman of the KRRiT will be able to request information from them to the extent necessary for such control. Violation of the obligation to provide information will be subject to penalties in the form of a financial administrative penalty imposed by an administrative decision by the Chairman of the CRRiT of up to 5% the revenue of the pay-TV service provider generated by the supply of pay-TV services in the previous tax year and, where the duration of the pay-TV service provider is less than the calendar year, the amendment assumes a fine of up to 500 000. zł. It is also proposed to impose sanctions for infringement by the pay-TV service provider of obligations relating to the transmission of registration declarations, as well as information about clients, in the form of a fine imposed by the KRRiT on the amount of PLN 500 for each infringement. Given that an infringement of these obligations may lead to an impossible non-registration of the receiver, which, if established, would be punishable by a penalty of 30 times the licence fee payable, the penalty proposed is adequate. As indicated above, the Act grants the designated operator access to data from certain public registers, e.g. the PESEL register, and the right to obtain information on customers of pay-TV service providers. It is therefore necessary to ensure adequate data protection. At the outset, it should be pointed out that the exercise of a public service task under the Act is an objective for which personal data can be processed to the extent necessary. There is no doubt that the collection of public danins, including subscription fees for public broadcasting missions, is precisely the task pursued for the public good. The provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act will apply to personal data collected and processed in connection with the collection of subscription fees. Given that not all data processed by the operator designated in connection with the collection of subscription fees will be personal data, and given the scale of activities in this area, it is appropriate to introduce a specific regulation on data security. These safeguards will be structural in the first place. The controller of personal data will be the designated operator. The tasks relating to the processing of personal data may be entrusted to a dedicated unit of the designated operator, which shall be indicated by means of a regulation of the Minister responsible for communication in agreement with the KRRiT. This separate unit, currently a Financial Service Centre of Polish Post, will process data obtained by means of control and access to data from the PESEL register and data about customers of paid TV services. An operator designated to safeguard data will appoint an information security administrator whose tasks are defined by the Personal Data Protection Act. In view of the operator's operation of the different activities, the indication of the separate entity, together with further regulations, will be used to prevent the use of data in activities other than subscription. The data will only be used to determine the entity required to pay the licence fee, its collection or enforcement. It will not be permitted to transfer data to other entities designated than the above-mentioned separate entity of the designated operator, as well as to entities other than those carrying out enforcement proceedings relating to the non-payment of subscription fees, and it will not be permitted to use them for purposes other than those set out in this Act. The processing of individual data by operators will be possible within a separate operator unit designated solely for the purpose of determining the entity required to pay the subscription fee, its collection or enforcement and using measures to ensure data security. In order to enhance the protection of data processed in the implementation of the Act, special protection of the related secrecy will be introduced. The subject of protection will be the individual data of the entities required to pay the licence fees and the entities exempt from them, obtained by the operator designated as a result of the implementation of the law. The entities subject to the obligation to keep this data confidential will be managers, employees and co-workers of the designated operator's separate organisational unit, as well as other employees and co-workers of the designated operator who are obtained in connection with business activities - e.g. persons employed in post offices - access to these data. The rules on postal secrecy will apply to this mystery. Point 4, transitional provisions. After the entry into force of this Act, pay-TV service providers will be required to provide the designated operator with information on each person who is a party to the contract for the supply of pay-TV once. The data communicated shall relate only to persons who have concluded contracts on the date of entry into force of the Act. It is proposed that customer information be provided within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the proposed law. This will enable suppliers to prepare themselves for this obligation. Suppliers will also be obliged to inform their customers of the obligation to register the receiver and pay subscription fees. These activities, like other obligations of pay-TV service providers provided for by the amendment, as I said, will be paid for. The amount of compensation will be determined in the same way as is the case with regard to other obligations of pay-TV service providers. The one-off obligations of pay-TV providers provided for in the draft transitional provisions must be subject to scrutiny. As with the new obligations of the project suppliers, the competent authority will be the KRRiT. The pay-TV service provider will be required to provide the KRRiT with a report on the performance of these duties within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the Act. It will only be statistical data, so it is not necessary to include their specific provisions on the protection of personal data. On the basis of the report, it will be possible to assess the correctness of the actions taken by the pay-TV service provider. On the basis of the information received, the KRRiT will be able to determine whether all persons have been informed of the new rules and whether the data of all persons required to pay the subscription fees will be made available to the designated operator. This information may also assess the effectiveness of the solutions adopted. The failure to report or the submission of an unreliable report shall be subject to the administrative penalty imposed by the Chairman of the CRR. In addition, the Act provides for abolition for persons who have registered the receiver, but who are behind with subscription fees. Currently, ladies and gentlemen, these arrears concern 2 million entities and 3 billion PLN. It is proposed that enforcement proceedings may be terminated against non-payment of subscription fees which, within 3 months of the date of entry into force of the Act, will fulfil their obligations, i.e. register the receiver if not registered, and pay the fee in advance for at least 6 months. In addition, it would not be possible for such persons to initiate new enforcement proceedings concerning arrears arising before the entry into force of the Law. Such a solution will lead to the remission of much greater amounts resulting from arrears than the amounts necessary to pay in order to obtain absolution. In order to guarantee and stress the lack of retroactivity of the proposed law, i.e. its non-retroactivity, it is also proposed to stress that it will not be possible to impose charges for the use of an unregistered receiver for the period prior to the date of entry into force of the law. It is proposed that the law should enter into force one month after the date of publication, except for the provision concerning the electronic system, which will enter into force within 3 months of the date of publication of the law, which is conditioned simply by the technical requirements for the construction of such a system. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, I propose that the Sejm adopt a draft law amending the Act on subscription fees and the Act on Radiophony and Television contained in Seym printing No 1587. The project was the subject of extensive public consultation and inter-ministerial arrangements. The draft submitted shall take into account a significant proportion of the comments made under those arrangements. I would also like to stress that the proposal has received a positive opinion from the Legislative Council. The proposal will help to increase the level of public media funding in Poland, as well as to improve the quality of public service missions provided by public media. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u326	Thank you, Minister. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: The change took place behind my back and I didn't notice - your marshal, High Izbo. That's true, and that's why I didn't pay the slightest attention. Hello again today. Thanking the Minister, I would like to ask the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, who will present the reasons for the parliamentary bill also in terms of subscription. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u327	Good change, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u328	Thank you very much for those words.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the group of applicants, I would like to present a draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and repealing the Act on subscription fees from print No 1497. What was the reason and reason why we were preparing this project? Well, from year to year, the subscription fee is reduced. The amounts that affect the budget are getting smaller, and the ratings are also decreasing. And the question arises as to why this situation is causing it. Recipients, citizens, Poles say that they do not want to pay because the programs are of poor quality, TV is of poor quality, is stubborn. So they don't want to pay and they won't pay. Any coercion, scaring by bailiffs does not produce any results, but causes social revolt, dissatisfaction, which does not serve the further functioning of public media, which are needed in Poland. That is why, at the initiative of the Group of Members, we have prepared a project, and I think that it is largely in line with the expectations of television broadcasters, public broadcasters, and radio, of course, public media. The project provides a simple, transparent, clear and clear solution. We will spend a certain amount every year from the state budget to maintain public media. We stop freaking out, surveillance people, looking for rules that were still there, are and will be ineffective. We're paying from the state budget. Today we offer an amount of PLN 750 million. Where'd you get that kind of money? This is the level that was sufficient to maintain television, so much was collected from subscription fees in 2015. It was enough at the time, and at the moment it's much less. In addition, we propose that income should come from the marketing of broadcasting rights, from advertising, from voluntary contributions of people, because some people want to pay. I think that if the quality of the broadcasts, the quality of the broadcasts is improved, the number of people who voluntarily wish to contribute will increase. We know such examples when the media only survives from public contributions. Of course, there is also the problem of backlogs that have formed. The Prime Minister said it was a sum of PLN 3 billion. 2 million citizens are being harassed right now, scared. I think if we know about them, we just have some ineffective instruments that we're going to force them to pay. This would to a large extent free many Poles, citizens from harassment, from stalking, from coercion, to paying a racket, because this witness, as the Prime Minister described earlier, presenting a project before me, is a forced witness. So we should stop with coercion and give citizens the opportunity to choose voluntarily, because some people don't even have a TV, and they're in a group of people they're after today and they're saying we're gonna force them to pay. Therefore, I present this very clear and readable project. This is a short, transparent project. It would enter into force from next year, because it is related to the provision of funds in the budget of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. The amount I said would be valued from year to year according to the price increase rate of goods and services, which is obvious, and today it would be a level that would somehow guarantee the minimum. The rest is within the reach of radio or television management, and such possibilities are, such possibilities the media have. It is simply necessary to encourage citizens to watch and participate in public television. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u330	Thank you for your kind words and thank you for presenting the project. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I would ask Mrs Barbara Bubula to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In the last 28 years, has there been a TV series based on e.g. Henry Sienkiewicz? The answer is no. Has the last 28 years been created e.g. A biographical TV series about Adam Mickiewicz's life? The answer is no. Have children's animated films been produced to measure the size of Rexia or Bolka and Lolka? The answer is no. [[Two people who stole the moon.]] Could talented journalists, writers, editors, operators from Krakow, Wrocław, Łódź, Lublin or Poznań develop their TV talents in regional centres of Polish Television? The answer is no. Have Poles been equipped with the right level of knowledge about their history through television or radio? No. Economics? No. About international politics? No. About health? No. About your democratic rights? No. We weren't a society, we weren't a well-informed nation. Because for years [[Joy in the Chamber]] The financing of Polish Television and Polish Radio has been neglected so much. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But Kurski wrote this to you?]] As a result, we put as much as 50 times less on our national public media... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Participative, party...]] ...than the average EU country relative to the gross domestic product level. Ladies and gentlemen, not 5 times less, not 15 times less, but 50 times less than GDP, which is lower than those countries. As a result, only 13% of citizens put on our national, public media, bear the burden of maintaining the regional radio stations of the Polish Radio, four nationwide programs of Polish Radio, all 16 regional TV centres, intervention programs of reporters, television theatres, rights to broadcast football matches, children's programs, health programs, etc., etc., or is forced to watch long blocks of advertising. It's time to fix this. Such an unfair burden distribution must be completed as soon as possible. Well funded Polish Television, well funded Polish Radio, without the pressure to fight for advertising, with resources for ambitious productions strengthening social ties, for patriotic education, enabling public dialogue and debate on the most important issues, are about today's and future sovereignty, about today's and future security of Poles. We propose the least cumbersome way to ensure that, in accordance with the rule of law, the principle of social justice, in accordance with common sense, most households participate in the maintenance of Polish media. We leave all the reliefs and exemptions so far. We give the opportunity to anyone who has neglected to register a TV in the mail so that without any consequences he can make up for it. We do not change the form of placing on Polish media. We give them a chance to invest in reports, local programs, young singers, TV series about Mickiewicz, animated films for children, so that they can limit advertising blocks. [[You're gonna make your own singers.]] The project also includes the principle that after a year, with the current sealing of the subscription working well, its height may be reduced. Instead of the current few hundred million from 13% farms will be able to finance Polish Radio and TV at the level of over PLN 2 billion from more than half of farms, taking into account the previous reliefs and exemptions for the elderly and the poorer. This level of more than PLN 2 billion per year is considered a minimum level not only by our experts, but also, I remind you, by the previous National Radio and Television Council, supported by the Civic Platform, PSL and SLD. Such an improvement, such good funding unfortunately does not guarantee the project proposed by PSL. Unfortunately, it represents the concreteisation of the current low funding of 750 million from the state budget. The state budget is also taxpayers' money, please do not introduce a demagogic element here, as is the case with the subscription. To give this 750 million, you have to take someone away. That doesn't solve the problem of bad funding. Moreover, it makes us dependent on the good or bad will of the European Commission, which may at any time consider budget funding to be illegal public aid. Do we want Polish Radio and Television Poland to share the fate of Polish shipyards? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore request that the PSL project be rejected at first reading and call for rapid and beyond political divisions... [[There's nothing like dialogue. Hearing arguments.]] ...the substantive work on the constitutional sealing of the radio-television subscription. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u332	On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Grzegorz Furgo. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u333	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I will start by saying that in a company free from the Treasury Jacek Kurski He wouldn't have been president in a long time. The Ministry of Culture treated the personal data of citizens as a product that can be intercepted, thus breaking the law on the protection of personal data. Close-up of personal data undermines the well-being of digital broadcasters, putting them at risk of losing customers. Who's gonna want to continue to be the recipient of a private platform signal if he doesn't have confidence in its operator? The transmission of confidential information is called reporting. You're generating salesmen. Why are you making digital broadcasters do this? The state administration has reliable information about its citizens and the state of their possession. In addition, has anyone started a public debate on this subject? You assured me that you would listen to the people's voice. Did you hear that voice that tells you to introduce a subscription in this form? Today, data is published, research shows that 1.5 million people want to give up cable TV rather than pay for the PiS propaganda racket. [[Applause]] But you care about time, because you already see the bottom of the media cash register of the PiS. [[Yes, sir.]] Let me remind you: the year 2016-180 million PLN of losses. Regional TVP centres were to be strengthened, about which President Kurski himself said they were growing. They get too much to die and not enough to live. In the end, however, they would run out of money to maintain their vitals. The fall of local TVP troops will then be the greatest crime you will ever commit. This Poles will never forget. But what are we supposed to expect if the prizes and payouts of imaginary salaries flow from Woronicz only in Warsaw, in the main propaganda center of the country? Now you need to patch this hole up, and you're doing it in your usual style: brutally, without respect for the law, putting the hood on citizens and entrepreneurs. You must understand that this mismanagement of Polish Television is the cause of these problems. You have considered this possibility to realize truly missionary, reliable television, with objective journalists and a program that attracts viewers. Right now, you're only motivating the audience to mutiny. They don't watch TV and listen to Polish Radio in protest. You raped the public media, subjecting them to your vision of humble media. So often you repeat the words: independent, steadfast, and unhonest, that you began to believe that such media is being realized. On Nowogrodzka you can hear the laughter of contentment when on TVP Info there are vulgar entries of haters e.g. about Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, and also when journalists are two and three to reduce the number of opposition marches and protests. [[Applause]] This is the mission that Jacek Kurski was talking about in front of the Committee on Culture and Media? Besides, even the Minister of Gliński, present here, has found that News, as he said, is a nightmare and a madhouse, prepared in an extremely unprofessional way. These are the words of the Prime Minister, which illustrate not only the news, but the entire activity of TVP PiS. When it comes to the level of propaganda aggression, the journalists of the quasi-mission TVP have looped so much that they even bite their own. You're saying TVP isn't propaganda? The former head of Bronisław Wildstein, with whom I agree once in this case that propaganda on TVP Info is transformed into an autoparody, because the role of the media is to report reality, not to think about how to convert the message into a good one for Law and Justice. If the crazy house and propaganda are spoken of by the minister to whom television is subject, and one of your leading journalists, and the TVP publicist, you have proof, and you have to hit your chest hard, and apologize to the audience for brainwashing you do. As a matter of interest, Madame, this board has introduced, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you know, 12 titles, but Turkish, to Polish Television? [[Applause]] Poles just... Marshal, one more moment, please. That's why they avoid paying their subscription because they see what information you want to feed them. Change the TVP board and fix it when it comes to the mission, and the money starts flowing. You're talking about diversifying advertising from channels... [[Marshal, time's up.]] ...public. That's very good, because these should be reserved... [[Don't bother.]] [[The voice from the room: The truth hurts.]] ...for commercial broadcasters. Today we are discussing a proposal that regulates only the issue of subscription. Why not deal with a comprehensively large media law, which will result in media responsibilities and the quality of media transmission? You think there's nothing wrong with the public media, just the lack of money? [[Your marshal, time.]] I'll tell you. There's nothing wrong with public media... [[Voice from the room: Childhood.]] ...that's why the money's missing. You insult a huge amount of people every day, every day, and you're about to reach out to pay for it. It's not gonna be okay. [[Applause]] [[That's embarrassing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u334	Mr. President, if you'd like to proceed...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u335	You start respecting the audience, the audience will respect your work by paying into the media cash register, but stop...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u336	Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u337	...to insult them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u338	Please speak on behalf of the club... [[Marshal, you're biased.]] ... Kukiz, 15 Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska. You're welcome. [[Yet, Your Marshal, a motion for rejection at first reading.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u339	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the club's position on print project No. 1587 and print project No. 1497. For understandable reasons, I will devote more time to the print project 1587, because in this system we know which print will be processed. The project presented by the Ministry of Culture is a project burdened with very many formal and substantive shortcomings. We understand that the situation of public media has been difficult for many years, but that is not a reason to put this type of project back in quickly. We remember last year's cultural committee was discussing the Law and Justice project in complete chaos for several hours. Wait a minute, then it turned out that the project was thrown into the trash because the European Commission had to be notified. However, this procedure is being celebrated at this point, a new project is being launched. Although yesterday the National Radio and Television Council said that there is nothing controversial about the fact that we are discussing the issue of subscription, even the way in which the public consultation is conducted indicates that there are very many hidden controversy. It is impossible to convince Poles to pay their subscription if they do not really feel that this mission is being carried out. And this mission is still not in place, my fellow Member. Because it's not even about those publishing programs that have always had a lot of controversy, but it's about the whole children's framework, for seniors, about documentary films. It's still gone, and there's no reason to justify the lack of it by the fact that there's a little more sport and the Television Theatre is back... [[There was the Television Theatre.]] ...because at the same time there are more and more commercials, and it's the ads of moments. On the other hand, Poles who are embarrassed by this level of media do not want to pay their subscription. I'm going to move on to less media than President Kurski's mission. What is extremely scandalous about this law is the protection of personal data. As far as these consultations are concerned, there are a large number of stakeholders who come forward and have reservations that their views have not been heard at all, even if there is no response from the Ministry to the letters they are sending. They are such entities as the General Data Protection Officer and the Polish Chamber of Electronic Communications. The Ministry of Culture sloppyly treats the issue of personal data. It is not that some data will be stored here, but these are highly sensitive data such as PESEL, address of residence, NIP. How can you say that this data will be collected by the Polish Post when there is no integrated IT system yet? After all, the entities that will send these data have different databases, do not have coherent systems. Even in the impact assessment, it is not clear what the costs of introducing this system will be, how many employees will be sent to do so, as will be the case. Really, these aren't trivial lines. Nor is there an assessment of the effects of these expected regulations... It is possible that there will be less revenue from VAT or less revenue from the Polish Film Institute. It is so that perhaps, as far as the television budget is concerned, there will be a problem with the migration of some of the television audiences to free terrestrial digital television to avoid a subscription fee. Do you realise that consumers who pass on their personal data are transferring them for a specific purpose? These objectives, which are included in the contract, cannot be amended so differently, [[Applause]] because if someone signs a contract for a specific purpose, giving their personal data, they cannot be changed. There are many doubts that the article will not be violated in this way. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 Personal Data Protection Act; there are three grounds for the legality of data processing. There are also many questions. Will the secret of the company of pay-TV providers, as defined in the standards of the agreement on commercial aspects of intellectual property rights, in the Act against unfair competition be violated? These questions appear and these questions were left unanswered. When it comes to abolition, if first it is said that there will be abolition and then it is expected that Poles will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] Everyone paid evenly... Someone might feel used, think he was naive, that he'd been paying all this time, and say, okay, I'm the one who won't pay from now on. Only the Polish families also do not know that they will have to pay in advance to avoid this abolition later. One more question, last one. I'm almost done. Is this solution treated as a target solution? Because there are various media reports, also from a few months ago, that in 2018 there may also be another way to process a subscription fee: joining CIT, PIT, KRUS. So, ladies and gentlemen, as far as printing 1497 is concerned, we would very much like to lean on this printing. On the other hand, Kukiz15 asks for the rejection of the draft law from print no. 1587 at first reading. I would ask you to record this request. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u340	Thank you, Member. It's written down, as you claim, as far as the projects are concerned. I will now ask Mr Paweł Pudłowski first to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. And then Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u341	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Certainly well-functioning public media are needed by Poland and Poles to carry out tasks related to the public mission enshrined in the law as offering to the public various programmes in the field of information, publication, culture, entertainment, education or sport. We also understand, in terms of the very low downloadability of the subscription... Because I'll remind you that this is 13%. Never before in the history of the world has the subscription been paid at such a low level. 13% citizens are willing to pay their subscription. At present, public television is 10.4%. This is May data this year. It is TVP2, TVP1 and TVP Info. 10% compared to two commercial stations: 15.7 and 12,5 . Public television is losing. Instead of fighting in your chest and asking why this is happening, you want to get TV paid to break the law and give you information about your clients. The protection of personal data, as the ombudsman speaks about, as the General Data Protection Officer talks about, and the communication law speaks about, as EU law says - and what will be said even more when the GDPR directive comes into force... You can't do that. The Prime Minister referred to the issue of public good. Public goods are available free of charge, Prime Minister. In this case, we require these companies to break the law and transfer the data. The second point is the lack of practicality of the proposed solution. Mrs Zielińska pointed out that there is no information system. The Polish Post Office, which is to take over these databases, has no system. But, Commissioner, it is said in the Act that this can be transmitted in writing. After all, this is only 10 million subscribers - six lines each - this data will take about 2 million pages, or 4,000 pages. It's a piece of paper. If you set them on top of each other, Minister, that would be 200 meters high. [[Applause]] Let me remind you that the Palace of Culture and Science in Warsaw is 231 m. Who's gonna rewrite that? [[Voice from the hall: Pigeons.]] Exactly. Another thing is social injustice. You're asking pay-TV to transmit data to these subscribers, which is about 70%. people who use television. Is that fair? Is that fair? I don't think so. Finally, the possibility of loss of revenue by the State Treasury. We get information, among others. from the Polish Chamber of Electronic Communications, that already paid television - and I will remind you that it is about 500 entities in Poland - are considering moving their residence to another country, outside Poland. Many subscribers are wondering whether or not to give up these fees. They'll pay less, there'll be lower taxes. There is nothing about this in the justification of this law addressed by the State. That is why we are against this law and we are against it at first reading. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. On the other hand, as far as the PSL project is concerned, we believe that it is in the right direction. I mean, we can't accept that, ladies and gentlemen, we're pretending because we used to be naive, but we're pretending that national media are completely separate from the political party. It's not gonna be like this. Also issues of subscription or budget, rather the budget, because the state then has to include this cost in the budget. In my opinion, as far as the proposed 750 million PLN is concerned, this is the not enough for well-run public television in Poland. We need more money, and that's why we're willing to work on the PSL project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u342	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski will use the rest of his time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u343	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! You could vouch for your speech like this: give us the money and we'll censor it. And this censorship on public television has been present for a long time. Jacek Kurski doesn't even have the shame of not talking about it. He simply openly announces the recording for actress Julia Wyszyńska, who simply eliminated from the Television Theatre. Besides, you have a similar passion, a similar practice you do. You didn't give money to the Malta Festival just because you don't like the curator of this festival, so we are dealing with such European standards. However, I would like to draw your attention to this: let us not be deceived by this technological narrative. She's going to finance the propaganda tube of the PiS state. In fact, this television, which is already completely compromised, is needed in the sense that we are going to get rid of all those people who are running TV today. I've been watching, watching what's happened in the last few months. I'm embarrassed that public television didn't really want to take the time of the outstanding great artist Andrzej Wajda. It was trace information on TVP Info or on TVP1. It was TVN24 that day that was public television, [[Applause]] When he spent the whole day sacrificing Wajda. That's the part. [[♪ The bell ♪]] form, such a function is to be performed by public television. Then we can finance it from our taxes. Then we should finance it from our taxes, but we will not finance party television. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u344	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u345	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, I believe that the project presented by your Prime Minister is practically an impossible project. He's not gonna change anything about this situation. Because all we hear there is that it's going to be a compulsion, that it's going to be a violation, that it's going to be a demand, it's going to be a coercion. Those were the words in the Prime Minister's speech. Poles don't want to pay for party TV. It is not a coincidence that I present this on behalf of a group of Members today, because it is not even a project of the Polish People's Party, but a wider project. Because we hear it on the street, we hear it from everyone. 90% People don't want to pay, they don't want to [[Applause]] Just pay. And they say they won't pay. We can look for various complex, expensive solutions, because it will also cost somewhere along the way, because we say that operators have to pay. The procedures are very complicated. The procedure is very complicated, it's impossible, it's really impossible. If anyone's been listening to this... And the resistance of matter, the social resistance, will be even greater. Because if you're forced to, that resistance is increasing. Therefore, a simple solution is proposed by a group of Members. I think it's a good solution, of course it's not perfect, because there's no perfect solution here today. There's no perfect solution. This amount I was talking about earlier, when I presented the project, 750 million, is such a minimum amount. I'm aware that this is the minimum amount. If we want to conduct independent TV, television for Poles, for all Poles, we need more money. But that's the solution. You just need better TV. You have to show that TV is better, then automatically the situation will turn around, they will start to influence money. Because today there are questions about why year by year the ratings fall, why year by year there is less and less money. Because there are worse programs because these are not programs for citizens, for Poles. These are programs for the selected group... [[For the president.]] ...political. Yeah, it's just to make some people like it, that's all. If you don't like it, you change editors. The economy on TV is supposed to be thinner, too, right? [[It's gonna get thinner.]] Good. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us consider this well. Prime Minister, I know that even in government circles, there is an idea to move on to public media budgeting. You think about it, you just have to make a brave decision here, you have to free the Poles from this racket, because it's just unfair. [[Applause]] It's not fair that you force Poles to do something they don't want. You give them something and they say, "Watch, and people don't watch and they don't want to watch." Of course, these ratings are pulled, and it shows how the ratings increase, how the ratings increase, but in reality the ratings fall. Therefore, by speaking on behalf of the Polish People's Party... [[Where did you get these tests?]] Why is the ratings dropping? Think about it, think about it. Then why is there less money? Why is there less money? [[And for the P.O., there was more? Yes?]] There was more. There was more. Exactly more. [[To POs and PSLs.]] Yeah, there was more money. [[The ratings were bigger, too.]] It was 750 million in 2015. When we present our report, we are in favour of a draft group of Members being directed and considered, because it is a clear, clear and very simple solution, very simple: citizens are not paid, the budget is giving money. We can think about it, we can increase it. We've offered that amount. Here you go, if there's the generosity of the rulers here, it could be more. If you want the president of television to make more money, you can give more, but the minimum is enough. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u346	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Michael Kaminski to speak on behalf of the European Union of Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is supposed to be your president's favorite anecdote. It concerns Joseph Stalin and Surkov, whom Joseph Stalin ordered to establish a union of Soviet writers. Stalin was very dissatisfied with the successive candidates presented to him by Surkov. Surkov replied: Comrade Stalin, we have no other writers. Perhaps Jacek Kurski must speak to President Kaczyński, asking for more money with the falling audience of public television: Mr. President, we do not have other journalists. That's right, you don't have any other journalists. [[Applause]] Mrs Law and Justice wondered why the "Krzyzacy" series had not yet been filmed. Because public television has been working on another classic Polish literature for 1.5 years, which goes under the roof, and serves to us the "Dziady," [[Applause]] and the culmination of these grandparents takes place every day at hours. 7:30. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Of course you can make Opole in Kielce, you can even make Hollywood in Brzeszczy, and San Remo in Żoliborz, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But it will not change the fact that - referring to the classic, or Mr.Jack Kurski, that the dark people will buy it - you collide with the painful reality that firstly, the people are not dark, and secondly, the people do not want to buy it. And since the people do not want to buy it, and you want Jack Kurski's words to become flesh and the people to buy it, you want to force him to buy it. But unfortunately, it won't work. People don't watch this TV because they even have different political views, because they don't even see the voters of Law and Justice to a large extent, but because it's just bad TV because you can't find out the truth from this TV. Because it is not a problem, ladies and gentlemen, that people with different views have been admitted to the public debate, because they have always participated in this debate. The problem is, if you're watching only public television today, there's just some things you can't find out. One can not learn the truth about the incidents of this authority, the tragedies of this authority, and too often we simply meet with lies, [[Applause]] which proves that Comrade Szmatiak was replaced by editor Szmatiak, and Poles do not want to buy it and do not buy it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if you really want to improve the quality of public television in Poland, make this television a place for real debate and, above all, tell the truth because you are afraid of the truth. In fact, you need this public television because you want to wash the brains of Poles, but you will not be able to do it, because, of course, there are also facts about your glorious activity, about which public television viewers do not find out. For example, they could not see the beautiful vocal performance of Minister Kempy, who was beautifully singing her prime minister of psalms in the church. [[Applause]] All the TV shows didn't show it to the public. Because why didn't public television show the other psalms that were sung to the former Member of Law and Justice... [[A beautiful name.]] ...with a beautiful name, it's true, [[Joy in the Chamber]] I can understand that. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a joke, because you are destroying Polish culture in this way, destroying the standards of public debate. Poland really deserves better. And I think no one has a problem, because if you watch TV that you think is hostile, individual private television programs, then very often politicians of today's opposition must be confronted with difficult questions. We're not afraid to go to those TVs where we have tough questions. I haven't seen any PiS politician ask difficult questions by a public service journalist. [[Once Minister of Gliński.]] Yes, and once you had Minister Gliński, he was right to be upset. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, just as the President's ear in Poland is actually a special service, not a cabaret, so the President's antenna is an antenna on Woronicz 17, but also the President's ear, and this antenna is wobbling and will collapse sooner or later. [[Applause]] [[Bear doesn't break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u348	Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska, Circle of the Posel Republicans. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Poselski, the Republicans have the honour to present their position on the Government's draft amendment to the Act on Subscription Fees and the Act on Radio and Television, as well as the Parliamentary bill amending the Act on Radio and Television and repealing the Act on Subscription Fees. What I would like to stress first is the fact that there is a significant violation here. Firstly, we are not dealing with any subscription here at all, because the subscription is, in accordance with the Commercial Companies Code, a form of settlement which is only possible if both parties to the civil law agreement accept the terms of the agreement and the agreement is signed by both parties. Only if this were the case would TVP be able to apply on the basis of such an agreement to fulfil this obligation. As far as I know, no owner of a radio-television receiver, generally speaking, has made such a contract, no holder of a television, no owner of a radio. Therefore, using the wording that this is a subscription, this is an important abuse and in this context should not be used. Secondly, I would like to protest against the justification put forward by the applicants that the transfer of data, the database of customers of cable networks is necessary for the fulfilment of obligations. This is not necessary because the form of collection could be different and more rational. It would not be necessary to require cable network owners to provide customer data, but simply to propose another form of collection, e.g. attach it to the electricity bill or simply turn it into a PIT. That's it. It would be simple and fair. Of course, only in a situation where the basic condition would be met, and therefore it would be television which is reliable, which is non-commercial, which is primarily focused on the execution of a public mission, to strengthen the Polish identity, to shape appropriate patriotic and civic attitudes, and not primarily on profit. If this mission is not put first, there is no need to charge any citizen an additional tax, because it is simply an ordinary tax, not any subscription. That's another line. What I would like to stress is the fact that today this law is aimed at ensuring that Poland Post simply gets additional databases of customers paid cable TV and, by increasing the database of these customers, can collect more fees and provide financing for public television. The important thing is that the principle of technological neutrality has also been violated in this solution, because we are dealing with favouritism of terrestrial television, for there is no need to conclude any additional agreements in the case of terrestrial television. Moreover, if we are to move towards the proposals proposed by the applicants, we should, for example: download bases from Central Vehicle and Driver Records, because every owner of a car usually has a radio. Then why aren't the CEPiK databases included in this bill? Of course, it would be a mistake, because I think that direction is wrong, and the bill in its assumptions is simply illogical. Another element that has already been highlighted by my predecessors, but I would also like it clearly [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a lack of preparation of the Polish Post for the management of the new databases provided to it. Therefore, on behalf of the Republicans, I request that the draft law be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u350	Government? Both projects? As regards the Free and Solidarnia Circle, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a written statement. There are 36 people on the list of people who signed up for the question. Would any of you like to sign in on this list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Mr Marek Polak, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to ask a question. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome. [[Two minutes, Marshal.]] There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club, will ask the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u351	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The proposed law is another tax which Law and Justice wants to give Poles for access to television, which should implement, and not implement, a public mission. You want to force operators of cable networks and digital television to transfer customer data to enforce this tax in a way that is contrary to the Constitution. However, in its judgment of 30 November 2002, the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out that in connection with the collection of data by the public administration at all times it was necessary to prove that this was necessary and not merely useful or most convenient. Dear Prime Minister, Poles do not want to pay the racket for access to television managed by President Jack Kurski, which only performs a party mission controlled from Nowogrodzka Street, which ignores the inconvenient facts and events for politicians of Law and Justice, which depreciates the achievements of millions of Poles, which is the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid, accepting on its air the sorting of Polish society and the spread of hate speech. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister, paraphrasing the words of President Jack Kurski, the dark people will not buy it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u352	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u353	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! The bill provides for the payment of a compulsory subscription, and if the citizen pays, it requires it. My question. Is it planned, for example? restricting advertising, which is also the income of public television? Why does the government differentiate Poles, divide them into those who are to pay the subscription, and those who actually pay will not have to, i.e. the recipients of terrestrial television? You're talking about a decrease in ratings. Young people are now on the Internet, they don't watch TV, and others are sick of the party mess. As it was for the previous power, so it is now, some attack others, and as I talk to people, they don't want to pay for it so they don't see it. And that's why the ratings are shrinking. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u354	Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In all this debate about the subscription, you forgot one very important thing - the mission. Because the public television we have now, in 2017, is basically no different from the one that was in 1981. Then Jaruzelski scared us from public television, and today Kaczyński scares us. That's when the prime was Urban, and now he's taking Kurski. Minister, television in 1981 and television in 2017 are propaganda, manipulation, but there is one difference - what you are doing is the scariest thing you are doing to people is destroying authorities, destroying organizations that build civil society. I would like to mention, for example, the Foundation to them. Stefan Batorego, but also about people: Andrzej Wajda, Krystyna Janda, Jurek Owsiak. You behave in a disgusting way, and do not be surprised that people will not want to pay for what you are showing. And the question I have for you is, do you ever [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's been watching public television for the last year and a half. 7:30 and later? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u356	Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It is estimated that about 1/8 households with radio or television sets regularly pay subscription fees, which means that 7/8 do not pay them, although this is a statutory obligation. As a result, we have the biggest loss of subscription fees among European countries. If we want public radio and TV to carry out their mission, we need to lead to a situation where they can afford this mission. This is because missionaryness cannot be based on an absolute pursuit of profit and competition in this pursuit with commercial broadcasters. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government of Law and Justice wants to resolve this problem seriously in order to avoid the proposal of the previous TVP head of Mr Juliusz Braun, who opts to liquidate public radio and television. We'd only have the proverbial piss left, and that's what we want to avoid. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: The hack is now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u358	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The falling ratings, the company's debt, the distribution of positions and prizes to the faithful Pisiewicz people and, in fact, the production of lies on an unknown scale. So I ask, Prime Minister, what do Poles pay for if they don't want to watch TVPiS? Public television under Jack Kurski became a factory of lies, in which a lie is produced on behalf of Nowogrodzka. So do not make Poles throw themselves at party-government propaganda. Going your way of thinking - because you like to collect information about Poles - didn't you ever think about adding Media Markt stores to the bill if someone bought a TV? [[Don't tell me.]] Because if he did, it's supposed to be watching public television. Only, Prime Minister, there is one problem - public television cannot be watched. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u360	Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz.15. You're welcome. There's no envoy. It is Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, who will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u361	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to start a proper conversation with Mrs Bubula. After 1989, many excellent television programs were created and please do not diminish the work of public television and its outstanding employees. I would also like to remind you that the TVP Culture was created by Jacek Weksler and Jerzy Kapusciński. Let me remind you that after 1989 a theatre studio was created, two led by Jerzy Kapuściński, who produced brilliant performances of the Television Theatre. I would also like to remind you that this public television has offered performances such as "Dziady" - there is no Mr.Kamiński - directed by Maciej Englert, of course by Mickiewicz. But there were also excellent publicist programs: 'I love cinema', 'televisive literary news', which was led by Prof. Beres, or something that is absolutely unique on a global scale - TVP Culture for many hours every day for almost 3 or 2 weeks [[♪ The bell ♪]] She was broadcasting the Chopin Contest. TVP Culture has finally won numerous awards at TV art festivals. Appreciate it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u362	Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Law and Justice, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u363	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Yeah, TVP Culture. Dear Member, there will be no subscription, there will be no TVP Culture, I think you are well aware of that, because this is a channel that is kept fully from subscription resources, and this is a channel that is fully implementing the mission. No subscription, no TVP Culture. And you, as subscription rakes - because I will remind the year 2005 and Donald Tusk's statements and political sleep. Mr Zbigniew Chlebowski - you pointed out and encouraged not to pay a radio-television subscription, because His enlightened Platform will come and eliminate rackets and tributes. [[Voice from the room: Do you pay?]] And what happened? And you didn't do anything except get 40 journalists fired... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: You are 200.]] ...which you gave the wolf's ticket to, without the possibility of hiring anywhere. 40 journalists leading public television had nothing to live for, nothing to function for, nothing to carry out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have led the state to this situation, the State from the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. My question: Prime Minister, what were translated into the words and decisions spoken in a way by Donald Tusk and Zbigniew Chlebowski in 2005, who encouraged...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u364	Proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u365	...to social disobedience, not paying your subscription? How much did the public media just lose? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u366	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u367	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, you force Poles to fund, among others. What you won't see on TV. I'll show you. Five manipulations from five days. That's what the news looks like after the PIS took over. Teleexpres reporters released from TVP after almost 10 years of work. Suddenly, they disappeared from the graphics. The TVP Info editor accused the station of mobbing. He lost his job. Or this: TV is in debt to the ears, and journalists cheat their employer and get horrendous money. Kaczyński's cousin got a job. But is that enough? No. Kaczyński's cousin is associated with you in the film Smolensk. What's going on? The lady from the movie Smolensk is working on TVP. Is that enough of those wives? No. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mr. Kurski's fiancée works on TVP. What's the effect? Trouble with TVP. Earnings are dropping, ratings are falling. [[Applause]] What's going on next? President Kurski has his results, they're very good. And how does TVP work, Minister? There's no FOOTBALL heart, but there's a broken line, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs. Szydło's driving.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u368	You are running out of time to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u369	President Kurski showed his movie six times a night shift, six times. [[More, more.]] Stolen materials, e.g. That movie from the stolen materials.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u370	Mr President, you are running out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u371	And finally, Marshal, Chairman of Gliński: this is a disgrace to TVP. You won't see that on TVP. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u372	Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[To be on Nitras TV, you have to have something to say.]] But if you don't mind... Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Many bitter words have been made here about the functioning of public television regarding the decline in audiences, the way in which public missions and the financial situation of public television are carried out. I'm asking what is your assessment of the functioning of public television, how far away we are from this pattern, which is the British BBC or other such stations. Poles will agree to pay the subscription, Poles will agree to bear the costs, but only if these media are indeed impartial when these media will carry out this public mission, which is set out in the Act. Today we are very far from this situation. The first step is to present an action plan that brings us closer to this objective and then to present how they are implemented, including funding. This is a solid plan that Poles require of you today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u374	Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! PiS politicians change further laws, this time the Act on Subscription Fees and the Act on Radiophony and Television. You are changing further records that serve one: the famous now we. If the social media officials say there's gonna be strong media only now, what are we talking about? Certainly not about the independence of public media, because you destroyed it. You threw out good journalists, and the politicians on TVP are asking questions about PiS politicians. You're doing the worst PR because you don't have white gloves. Less and less Poles are watching you... [[Don't lie to me.]] ...and now you want citizens to fall for your propaganda. It's a waste of their money. The quality of the programs is falling, and the best people who could raise this fallen colossus work in other stations. My question: What is the plan for field troops? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What about the expansion of small branches in smaller regions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u376	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u377	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A radio-television subscription is a fee intended to enable the performance of a public television and radio mission. Under Kurski's president, the mission replaced propaganda. The state itself on the TVP pages boasts of sets of antenna times for each batch. In April, TVP Info devoted 18 hours to the state authorities and politicians of PiS. At the same time the Civic Platform had 5 hours, SLD - 28 minutes, Party Total - 0 minutes and 0 seconds. The radio-television subscription in the current issue is like a subscription to the People's Tribune in times quite rightly past. The only difference is that then the subscription was arbitrary. Paid TV in Poland has 66% of 13.5 million households. By choosing this television, the Poles considered that the offer of free terrestrial television, i.e. the offer of national media, was not attractive for them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They prefer to pay and watch objective information and publicity programs. So we've come to a paradox. Those who do not watch will pay, and those who watch will not pay, because in the latter case the authors of the amendment do not know how to verify these subscribers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u378	Proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u379	If you have a question for me, go ahead. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u380	This is a time when the Members present ask questions, but not to you. That's not the formula. [[That's what you need to know.]] Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform Club, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u381	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! According to the project, the pay-TV service provider will be required to provide the Polish Post Office with information about any contract concluded. I ignore the fact that this is a manifest violation of the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. I have a question: Is Polish Post prepared to accept hundreds of thousands of personal data? Does it have tools to secure this data, especially until the IT system is created? When will this data be transmitted in writing, what is the justification for the project? I doubt it. And you will be responsible for that. The second point, the issue of public service. Yeah, what's the mission? We're talking? Since Mr. Kurski is the head of TVP, television is the propaganda tube of the PiS and I don't understand why we all have to finance it. Bring back public television first, and then let's talk about funding it. In the meantime, I suggest you encrypt the public television. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And let them pay you what they want to watch. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u382	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform. [[He's not here.]] There isn't. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform. I remind you, one minute. But one minute for you to speak rudely.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u383	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to quote one of the PiS politicians. I don't do it very often, but this quote is extremely accurate. This quote refers to the leading news: You are involved in manipulation and propaganda. And then, it's a question that students should study as an example of propaganda. Do you, Prime Minister, know who said it or do you remember who said it? Because that's what Prime Minister Gliński said. These are the words addressed to the leading news on public television, where the Prime Minister supervising the news, the TV supervisor, accuses propaganda to the main issue of This is an outrage, this is the image we're debating today. And it is worth saying that once news was to learn something, and cabaret was used to laugh, and now news is to laugh, and cabaret is to learn something. [[Applause]] Because we learned from the cabaret what the case was about, for example, Jack Kurski's cancellation and the National Media Council, not the News. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u384	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u385	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you were wondering why Poles don't pay their subscription. I hope you're not wondering. I was trying to help you with some answers. Perhaps Poles do not pay their subscription because they see how they manipulate public television, maybe they saw the news wiped out a double continuous, [[Joy in the Chamber]] so as to show that the BOR car could turn or pass the seicinto. Perhaps the Poles do not like the news that they erased the heart of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help from the Navy flap. Minister, you don't have the heart to do something like this. [[Applause]] Minister, perhaps Poles do not like it and therefore do not pay the subscription that the director of TVP2 Marcin Wolski simply those who pay the subscription, despises and says yes: the rules are simple, the former elections, won this party, so we have to make peace and shut up. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, please fill in these answers, because there must have been more of these manipulations. I hope you will finally realize why Poles do not want to pay their subscription. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u386	Mr Marek Krzakła, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u387	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the real reasons for the changes contained in the draft of these laws. Is it not so that the propaganda machine of the president of TVP - master of demagogy, the one from the grandfather of Wermacht, the author of the quote: with this Wermacht it's bullshit, but we're going because the dark people will buy it - it just stopped functioning and brings nothing but loss? After all, the ratings of national television programs have fallen dramatically because the president apparently overstepped by manipulating the truth. He thinks that he will take over the minds of Poles, hence continuous insinuations, discourses and manipulations, which have become the domain of information programs and which have led to financial collapse. And for your mistakes, the taxpayer will have to pay. Do it, but at your expense. Tell me, Prime Minister, what is it today, today's public media mission, and aren't you afraid that Jacek Kurski will have to apologize to the Poles for his manipulation and distortion of reality, as in January 2008? I quote: I, Jacek Kurski, am very sorry Mr. Donald Tusk and the Civic Platform for putting up the wrong ones [[♪ The bell ♪]] charges in a television broadcast. I misled public opinion. I'm sorry again. Signed - Jacek Kurski. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u388	Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u389	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, you want to force Poles to make a TVPiS drop, but they don't want it. 75% people with cable do not want to pay for it, but not because they think that public media are unnecessary, just because in your governments public media have lost their impartiality, objectivity and integrity. And to confirm these words, I will quote to you the opinion of a respected public media journalist who resigned a few days ago. He said this: Radio has become a tool of political struggle in the hands of the PiS. I couldn't see the basic principles of journalism being destroyed, how it manipulated itself with information, how it tried to keep the facts quiet. I don't agree to such unethical actions. Neither is our consent. Therefore I ask: Do you really think that it will be like Jacek Kurski said that the dark people will buy it? No, the dark people won't buy it, so don't give it to anyone. force. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u390	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mrs Małgorzata Pępek, the Civic Platform Club, I have for present Members, but not only, probably to the satisfaction of the Polish People's Party, information signed by the President of the Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice about the content: Acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I withdraw the motion to reject in full the first reading of the Parliamentary bill amending the Act on Radio and Television... [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Wow!]] ...and repeal of the Act on subscription fees, print No 1497. And now Mrs Navel, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The arrears in the collection of the subscription fee for the last 5 years amount to a total amount of PLN 3 billion. Minister, since the public media are national, they are our common good, and radios and televisions are used to receive them. Without them, President Kurski will not be able to practice propaganda serving the right line of the Law and Justice Party. And that's why you want to charge the Poles another tax. You lied to the Poles again. How embarrassing are you? And I will ask Mr. Gliński and Mr. Kurski: Why has the loss of public television so dramatically increased and the ratings dropped? What does that tell you? Everyone here, in this room, we figure out what it's coming from, don't we? And I also wanted to ask what is the loss of public television for 2016. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and if it is greater than in 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u392	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mrs. Member! I have a question for you. After all, you know perfectly well that this television is weak, absolutely you know that, you are aware of that. I just don't understand why you guys aren't able to influence this bad management to make things a little less civilized. You guys would have less trouble, so maybe we wouldn't attack like this. They're evil. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the mission? The mission has to be. We've got a case in the last few days. A year of work by an excellent reporter, I will mention the name Wojciech Bojanowski from TVN for a year is doing a report that shakes the whole country. Of course, this is the case of Igor Stachowiak. He's been sacrificing a year. Great programs in Polsat, for example, the Internet. What programs do we have on public television? It's horrible, isn't it? Besides, Prime Minister, I have one more thing to say to you. I hope that you will lead us to a situation in which we will talk about this PLN 8,9 per subscription, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that we won't get used to those 22,70s. This has to start too, because it was promised that next year people would pay less money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u394	Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Platform Club - another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u395	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, I imagine it is a very difficult task to present such a bill today, because as long as you were able to talk about the fact that public television will be changed and will have a mission, each of us can see what this Polish TV looks like now. During this year and a half we had to divide Poles into better and worse, we had propaganda, we had to insult people. The question is, what are the Poles going to pay this subscription for and how are you going to explain to them that they are going to contribute to it. What programs do they have? Playing the night shift of Jack Kurski's production, as has already been mentioned, six times, Studio yayo, which is a complete intellectual embarrassment, after all people see it, 12 Turkish series have been introduced. One thing, Prime Minister. If you're doing Turkish TV shows, people don't watch it. What are they watching? The ear of the president, because we have such times that we have the Internet. People won't be watching. [[♪ The bell ♪]] public television, they will watch on the Internet, they will learn from the Internet and from the CEO's ear, because there they will learn the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u396	Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u397	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister, the statutory obligation of the public broadcaster, as we can read in the Act on the National Radio and Television Council, is to provide the public with a programme of pluralism, impartiality, balance and independence. When we watch public television, we can view these words as a grim joke or even science fiction. May 2017, TVP's analysis of information programmes shows one thing: PiS is currently in 66% of these programmes. Given the general broadcast of TVPiS, because there is no public television anymore, PiS is there in 89%. From May 2015 to May 2017, the news lost 30% of the market. Any private company would lose its right to be. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] There is no public television, there is no public radio, there is PIS and your PiS radio. Gather a racket for Jack Kurski, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But do not burden Polish citizens, all people with paying for what you offer them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u398	Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u399	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I will start with a quote from the explanatory memorandum: It should be noted that the basis for subscription fees is the assumption that the whole society in the Community dimension benefits from public broadcasting and public service broadcasting. Minister, that's a lie. I personally know hundreds of people who don't benefit at all. Often the word "sovereign" appears in the PiS narrative. Turn to this sovereign and let him pay for these benefits. You're not gonna do this because you know perfectly well that even your electorate would give you at least a fig and a poppy. In order to save the ruined budget of TVPiS by the President of Kurski, a media racket is imposed on Poles, another tax to finance the propaganda tube of PiS and allow to earn a cut by pseudo-diaryrs and so-called. experts from right-wing media. You want to force cable TV operators to report, threatening financial penalties for refusing to give your client's data. It is a shame, Minister, that this project is signed by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. What kind of culture? Are we talking? What heritage do you promote? Are you referring to Paul Morozov? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Esbeck permanent surveillance, threats and punishments. This battle will not be won by the voice of argument, it will be won by the power of the vote, but by the media war, Minister, you will lose. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u400	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u401	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Mr. Marshal dear always asks that speeches be in the form of questions. So I have a question for the Prime Minister, who and under what circumstances said this: This is some kind of nightmare, a madhouse, [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're all crazy. [[Mr. Honourable, are you okay?]] Prime Minister, are you coming to the High House today with information for the citizens of our country that they are going to throw themselves on party television? [[It's a madhouse.]] Prime Minister, there will be no dropout for this nightmare, this madhouse, and this madness you've been talking about. Prime Minister, nothing has changed. Poles have the right to choose, Poles have the right to choose the programs that they want to organize and which they want to watch. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you should change your name - TVPiS. [[Applause]] That's the right name for this TV and let the members of the PiS throw themselves at it. [[Applause]] [[Image group.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u402	Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! When over a year ago in this room, of course on the night shift, there was a change in public media, we heard then that after this change everything would be wonderful, everything would be fine and finally the mission would be carried out, it would be High ratings. And what happened to it? It has been a year and it turns out that the ratings have fallen, the mission is being carried out, but what is it, Member? The PiS mission, the mission of lies, the mission of manipulation, the mission of transmitting selectively specific information. Ladies and gentlemen, if you carry out such a mission, please, slowly, there is a free country, just finance it from the budget of your club, your party, and at this point there is no problem, and do not force Poles to pay for your fanaber. Because even your electorate has no intention of watching your TV anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u404	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u405	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Citizens say TVP isn't public television. Everyone says it's a commercial PiS TV for taxpayers' money, and they don't want it. You don't carry out a public service mission, and you don't care that it's carried out. The State imposes additional obligations on private entities to provide additional information. Why? Why do you want to violate the Personal Data Protection Act, even though you have indicated there how you will protect this personal data? In the interest of the public service, did the State release independent journalists from public television today? It is the television of the PiS state, commercial, for public money, taxpayers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's not what the Poles want. Please accept them as your own pot. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u406	Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u407	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister, have you heard this debate here on this side of the room? I hope so. You have a minimum chance, a minimum, that one of the only Members of the Mirror - we do not know her speech, because she passed it on - agrees with you. That is, PiS and possibly one Member. Everyone else said no, Prime Minister. I hope you're reading too. So if you read - I'm sure, Professor - you know how many percent of Poles said that you won't and do not want to pay your subscription. Mostly, 80%. So, you know, you can do something forcefully, but I think this time this force has failed you. You know what it's like to be on TV. I don't need TV and I didn't need TV to watch you. There was a tablet here, and you were here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I saw you, and I heard you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u408	Mrs Zofia Czernow, another question. As for the circle that you have been talking about, I am already talking about, Free and Solidarnia, the circle is behind the further work on both projects. Therefore, at the moment we have only one motion to reject the project - the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u409	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The question of how the ratings fell and why is the question in principle rhetorical, because all reasonable people know that the program in which you watch TV shows and the propaganda of PiS-owska is impossible to see. [[Are you watching the games?]] It is far from the mission that the Polish Television should have. Poles do not want you to raise posts in polls for their money. But there is a comforting one good news: that's what increased the ratings in one discipline - TVP ABC, because even in fairy tales for children there is more truth than in TVPiS reports. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u410	And now, Mrs Zofia Czernow, please, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I wanted to ask you where President Kurski is. I think he should be listening to this discussion. This is a very important discussion. [[He's watching through the tablet.]] The national media, which you are running the President of Kurski in Poland, is unfortunately party media. Just listen to the news or other information program to see that these are manipulations and semi-truths. For this reason, most Poles do not listen or watch these programs. The ratings are dropping regularly, and the financial result is deteriorating dramatically. So, what's the situation? Exactly, introduce a compulsory subscription, regardless of the opinion of Poles. Do they have a receiver? Never mind. Do they watch the shows, listen to them? Never mind. Do they expect anything from the media? Never mind. Make 'em pay 'cause the money's really needed. What if someone doesn't pay their subscription? What are the sanctions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or maybe take out the national media? They're not in many countries. It'll solve a lot of problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u412	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u413	Prime Minister, I am aware that you, when listening to all these critical voices, do not believe this, perhaps you also read this information about the results of research that you do not believe in, maybe you do not understand, but what you said is true is that the subscription is a universal and compulsory tribute. In order to enforce this, various bunk constructions are used, some penalties are foreseen, etc. Public television, too, as you have rightly said, is required to perform a public mission. But the chief missionary, president of Jacek Kurski, attracts millions to himself. Recently, he said he had some results from some research that confirmed the millions. I think it's enough to apply a simpler method than the Prime Minister proposes. Well, anyone who doesn't want to pay a subscription will be blocked by a written television signal. I'm pretty sure everyone's gonna throw themselves to pay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A simple solution, please use it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u414	Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, please, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u415	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The financial situation of TVP is very weak; if no gold shot succeeds, it risks losing liquidity; TVP president claims that we have already reached the wall. Such titles have sounded in various media for a long time, hence all hands aboard and outrunning the Law and Justice in ideas of how to save national media by themselves and for themselves. I want to ask you about a ominous justification, a statement that the media should focus on their mission and not pursue advertising profits. In fact, we all know very well that this is just a poor explanation for the withdrawal of advertisers due to the poor quality of national media. Therefore, my questions are: What advertising revenue does public television have compared to previous years? I am asking here about the years 2015, 2014 and the years preceding. And second question: How and how much credit [[♪ The bell ♪]] She's dragged TVP under the new president of Jack Kurski by then? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u416	Thank you. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u417	Where are you, pissants and pissants? Where are you people who want to force Poles to pay a racket for national media where there is no room for information without manipulation? I address those 225 parliamentarians who aren't here today, and they should be. Where are you, PiS MPs when we're discussing a lack of television missionaryism that isn't public? Where are you when we're discussing television where the broadcasts are built according to the political message of your party? Where are you when we're talking about your project, about your government project, about the public television that divides, insults, lies, manipulates and wipes out the real story where there's chaos and lack of competence, and journalistic ethics look for nothing? Where are you? Because we want to tell you that Poles will not pay the racket on political television, over which on behalf of President Kaczyński [[♪ The bell ♪]] President Kurski, who spends millions of Polish and Polish money on propaganda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u418	Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u419	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! PiS has prepared a bill, which is not only temporary, raises huge doubts and causes a wave of complaints about our country, it will still be leaky. I have a question for the Prime Minister: Do you remember your granddaughter's method? I hope you didn't follow her example, because your law will prompt Poles to apply a new method, to their grandmother. They will prescribe contracts for grandma and grandpa to avoid subscription fees. Another part of Poles will give up paid TV and will switch to free digital terrestrial TV. Hence my question: Aren't you afraid that a lot of people will still not pay their subscription? Worse still, it will arouse a sense of injustice for those who regularly pay. And what's the rush, Prime Minister? Why don't you listen to the voices of the stakeholders about this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] To make a good bill acceptable to everyone? It would satisfy Mrs Bubble's wish, because it would be conducted over political divisions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u420	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u421	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Everyone here clearly doesn't agree to funding the arrogant propaganda tube of the PiS, that's probably obvious to all of us. On the other hand, the diagnosis is also simple - since the state is so worried about the public finances of television, I will tell you that in recent months it is easy to diagnose where other subscribers may have dropped out. These are millions of Poles who love WOŚP, because there is really a lot of them, it is quite a small group of Poles disgusted, embarrassed by the rude New Year's scene, they are fans of the festival in Opole. Eventually, I'll tell you that if you were, for example. They thought that's what Tomczyk's friend was talking about, if you had, because the news at 7:30 p.m. really had a cabaret form, you wanted to throw it in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The President's ear, perhaps you would convince some part of Poles to pay. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u422	Mr Tomasz Kostus, the Civic Platform, has put a question in writing. Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz.15, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u424	Mr President, ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u425	Prime Minister! High Izbo! I think we need to raise the level of public television as the platform rises here. I feel a little sorry for the Prime Minister, he's got such a nice look on his face, he could be in a chocolate commercial, and now he's been exposed by the Law and Justice on a pretty ugly mission. Someone doesn't like him out there, obviously, but it's kind of irrelevant. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 says that a person who is party to a contract to provide pay-TV is presumed to have a television receiver in a condition to receive the programme immediately. I propose to replace this article with another article: It is alleged that the person who is the president of TVP from the party broadcast does not pursue a public goal, but a party goal. Besides, why don't we think about financing the budget hole on TVP with party subsidies. The Kukiz15 is the only one who does not receive this subsidy, Law and Justice is almost PLN 20 million a year, the Civic Platform - over PLN 15 million a year. Together, there'd be something out of it, and we know that this hole didn't come up suddenly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the past year and a half, only for a long time... That's another line. The cancellation of the subscription would be correct, but on the other hand, the government will take this money from us, only that from the state budget and us, Poles, we will pay this 750 million PLN. They won't repair our roads, they won't renovate the hospital, so basic question: First of all, the reform of television, the election of the president by Poles, after all this is the fourth power...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u426	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u427	...and we should all decide together who will rule and not one person, so not for cable tax. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u428	Thank you very much. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u429	Sire, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you the following question, only terribly It's high up here, and now I'm wondering how to lower it. [[On the right side of the corner.]] Oh, here's something, okay. In order not to waste time, I ask the question: Is the obligation for cable station operators to transfer their customers' personal data in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act? Next question: Do you think that public television is using the money from the subscription properly and economically, and that it is in particular spent on the implementation of the so-called. public media missions, and isn't it that these media have become the government's propaganda tube? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u430	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u431	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! We're more or less even. You remember the time when Jerzy Urban was on TV. It was a time when we all hated him dearly, you probably hated him, and now we have Urban to the power of ent. You've been through this, you've been on TV, and on this television you've also been posted in a very unworthy way, Prime Minister, which is why I'm so curious why you're leaving with such certainty, which is why you want to put Jack Kurski's television as a model of national television. I don't think that's the TV you wanted, and I think most of the PiS. Although we've all been saying "TVP PiS" and that's what happened, and that's something that really scares us. [[Do you pay your subscription?]] Something else scares us - the embezzlement of our personal data. Me and thousands and millions of people don't wish for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To get digital TV data out into some kind of indeterminate space. Thank you. [[It won't come out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u432	Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u433	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, on November 27th, when you were in the TVP studio, you said, "This is a disgrace." Polish Television, you're crazy. And I have to agree with you, although I don't often do it - it's a disgrace and you're crazy to make such a bill. You, Minister, are a decent and honest man, you were in the Freedom Union when I was in it. I wanted to ask you if you, as Minister of Culture, see the possibility of winding up Polish Television, because we are aware that it in this shape, with Goebbels' propaganda and with Jerzy Urban's successor worthy to survive in the commercial market simply cannot. It's impossible. Do you see a situation in which this station can be terminated and a new professional entity is established that would be... [[Do you pay your subscription?]] I don't watch TV... I don't watch TV, sir. If you don't mind, I'd appreciate it. I'd appreciate it. Your marshal, because I can't finish the question... [[But you're paying your subscription?]] So my basic question... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u434	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u435	Are you at the market or at the Parliament of the Republic? Mr President, I have just responded to you. I don't watch TV. [[But you're paying your subscription?]] I don't have a TV, I don't pay my subscription - it's very simple, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u436	Mr President, we are going to the end. [[Then how do you know what content is transmitted on TV?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u437	I'm watching it on the Internet.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u438	Mr President, please do not have a conversation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u439	So my question is coming... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I told you I watch on the Internet, and I'm on TV, among other things. with you because you don't pay for the Internet. Don't you understand, sir? [[There's such a thing as the Internet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u440	Mr President, once again...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u441	What part of the sentence do you not understand?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u442	Mr Peter Bear, wait a moment. I would very much ask you to stop this conversation because we have absolutely no need for time, and this is the time to ask questions, not to have a discussion with the person asking the question. I'm gonna have to draw your attention... [[There you go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u443	I'm just finishing up...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u444	...and this may unfortunately end in a negative way, which is a reprimand or punishment... [[Then treat all Members equally, not selectively.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u445	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u446	...so there's no point in continuing this conversation. You're welcome, sir. [[He doesn't pay his subscription.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u447	I'm almost done. I just wanted to ask, Minister, if you are considering the initiative of setting up a new entity and eliminating this propaganda institution, which is the Television Polska Spółka Akcyjna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u448	With this question, we have exhausted the list of MEPs. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, please take the floor. Vice President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Mr Piotr Gliński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u449	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Yeah, you guys used it. [[The truth hurts.]] I think good psychotherapy is gonna come in handy. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I, on the other hand, strengthened my skin. And I'd like to say yes... [[Voice from the room: Go ahead.]] Yeah, well, it's hard to answer when this classic crazy house was built in this room. It is difficult for me to answer because most of this debate was simply not on the subject. I presented an amendment to the bill, described it, probably for half an hour I spoke quite in detail, and then I heard a debate or pseudodebata - notabene, your marshal, which the second speech of Members was not a question - which concerned completely different issues. I didn't deal with the issue of the Christmas orchestra here, the matter of public service obligations. As Minister of Culture, I have limited competence in matters of public service, as you know, other bodies, institutions are responsible for this. I merely presented an amendment to the law that seeks to rationalise the public tribute that we are all required to pay is not a new obligation. So all the advice that this is a new tax, a new charge, is purely demagogic, and, to put it simply, they're just a lie. On the other hand, it is not appropriate to lie in the Seym of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: These are problems.]] I will also not refer to all the screams and tyrads that dominated the debate here, because I don't think there's any point. I regret that you would prefer to convert the Sejm and Polish politics and Polish democracy into a huge disturbance filled with negative emotions. This leads to nothing, that is what destroys democracy, destroys Polish freedom, destroys institutions, destroys public media and the public mission that you so care about. Instead of talking, we have invectives, innuendoes, and stupidity, so let me feel free to answer most of the questions and threads. On the other hand, I would like to raise a few points, because they are important throughout this debate if we are to take policy seriously. I'm gonna start with a little bit more background. The project we are presenting is an amendment of the current law. I say again: it does not impose any new obligations on citizens, it is not a new fee, it is an attempt to rationalise the subscription. Secondly, we are preparing, and we have informed this in public space many times, so the Members speaking in this debate should be informed about it - that is, it is probably the duty of Members if they speak in public matters - that we have repeatedly said that we are preparing a large, systemic solution, which unfortunately requires time and notification to the European Commission, namely the solution concerning universal payment from taxpayers, not from households, but from citizens paying taxes, including CIT or PIT. That's approx. 8 zł per month, that's the scale we're thinking about. When this project is introduced, it is difficult to say, because, as I said, the main barrier is the notification of the European Commission, which is, moreover, the main drawback of the PSL project and you know that, you know. It would probably be easier to cover it from the budget, only that, first of all, this is a new form of public aid. And this is also a project -- and for a moment let's try to get away from the reality of adventure, emotions, the fact that we're going to be throwing ourselves here with invectives and lies, which doesn't make sense, I think -- which more politically ties public media to politicians, because politicians decide every year about the budget. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] and every year, therefore, public media will be dependent, on a short strip, on a short leash, on a budget, on a policy, on what is happening here in this room. I was talking about a model that should work effectively in democracy. The current model is based on a subscription. It would probably be easier for the public to accept, also easier for politicians, if we put in place this payment-and-tax solution. As you know, it is not possible at this moment either, because we are in the European Union, we must follow certain procedures and therefore we will not introduce such solutions quickly. On the other hand, we are trying to introduce this solution, which is at risk, as are many different legislative solutions. In the atmosphere that you are trying to create now, of course, it will be difficult to achieve, and we are aware of it, but my duty as a responsible politician, because I have ownership of public media, nothing more, is to present such a project, even if it meets, well, with such applause of the audience. And now I'm going to go to a few specific points. Ladies and gentlemen! For half an hour, I made it clear that all the proposed solutions are legal. We're not violating any law and I can repeat it. That's one more time, 'cause at least it's gonna end up in some new segment of public opinion. The Personal Data Protection Act provides for the possibility of processing data without the consent of the person concerned. Usually in every democracy it is, it is nothing special, so please do not use demagogic slogans that we are entering someone's privacy, etc. This can be done if this is necessary for the exercise of the right or the obligation under the law, and this is a quote of the law in force in Poland. If we want to put the fight, the invectives, the bad emotions, the demagogy and the anarchy of the state over democracy, we can of course say that we are not interested in the law. One at a time, we can jump on this platform and tell us what the spit on our tongue will bring. As regards the company's secrecy, its purpose is to protect the trader's data against unfair competition. The full customer database can indeed be the secret of the company, but it should be remembered that Poland Post will receive only a small part of the customer information that is in possession of pay-TV providers. There will also be no risk of being used by an unfair competitor. Only Poczta Polska will have access to the data, which does not compete on the pay-TV market when providing access to the Internet, and the data received will be able to use only to a very narrow extent. Of course, we can question everything, say that Polish Post is no longer an institution of trust, that the law will not be respected. We can do that. We may call for a violation of the law, but this is anarchy, not democracy. As for the issues of this justice, because the state also raised them... I think your Member raised, among other things. That's the argument. Ladies and gentlemen, the obligation to register receivers is imposed on all their holders, regardless of how they use media services. We are all subject to this on the basis of the current law. The receiver must therefore be registered both by the users of pay-TV services and by the recipients of free terrestrial television, as well as by those who use the Internet... The Member has disappeared. That's what it's like: jump into the bleacher, yell, yell, insult, invectives, lies, and then go away and not listen to the answer. So also those who use the Internet and have at home a TV capable of receiving, according to Polish law should pay, should register this TV and pay the subscription. That's the law. Let's change them first, I hope, in a democratic way, not by going out on the street and reporting abroad. The Act only provides for facilitation for people using pay-TV services because they can register through their pay-TV operator and also introduces a control mechanism. The requirement to have a fair control over everyone is that everyone should have a controller over themselves is completely absurd. The control provisions shall be without prejudice to equality in respect of the law. All receiver owners are checked, only the means of this check differ. And that's what the bill is about. Please understand that. Here, Mrs Siarkowska also used the term - maybe it was the second Member, I'm sorry, I think it was Mrs Siarkowska - that something is illogical. You can understand logic differently, I remember it from school. The Act is without prejudice to the provisions on the protection of personal data. This law provides for the possibility of processing data without the consent of the person concerned, as I said, if this is necessary for the implementation of the law. One more point, because these specific legal issues, in my opinion, are important. Polish law provides for situations in which the change of law generally applicable results in the need to change the terms of civil law contracts, i.e. it is not so that the terms of civil law contracts cannot be changed even though such an agreement has been concluded. This is what Polish law provides, because reality is more complicated in many different dimensions, not only in the question of subscription. If we accept this bill, it will be possible, because it is possible. This issue has been extensively described, regulated by Article. 60a Telecommunication Law, which applies to contracts for the provision of pay-TV services. According to this regulation, where a change in the content of the contract, e.g. the rules governing the provision of services are directly due to the amendment of the law, the pay-TV service provider is obliged to notify the change of its client and to inform him of the right to terminate the contract. There are two conditions: we must inform you that the law has changed, and therefore our civil law agreement is already of a different nature and we must propose termination of the agreement. And that's fair, and that's legal, so please don't say that our amendment is illegal. This legality was confirmed by the clear views of the Legislative Council and, contrary to what Mrs GIODO said this time. The opinion on this project is generally positive. He's been prepped for a long time. It's not true that we were in a special hurry. He was prepared and presented quite long and most carefully, as we could do. Let me remind you again: this is not an amendment to the Act on Public Television Mission, the President of Public Television, or even about Jerzy Owsiak or Oliver Frljec, Andrzej Wajda etc. Ladies and gentlemen, you have referred very often in these statements to Poles, that Poles have already decided, Poles have this opinion, etc. I think that Poles look at how we work, they look at who cares about fighting, invectives, lies, screams, screams, and who cares about moving our Polish affairs forward and improving the functioning of Polish democracy. And one more thing, because you attacked me personally - this is the law of every Member, although the form is already evaluated, I judge it critically - namely, you attacked me personally in connection with my experience in the media. I have been active in public media in general in Poland for 5 years. I remember the media before, and I don't want anyone in my life to be in those media, because it was the media... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u450	Representative of the applicants for the project of the Polish People's Party, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u451	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, it is not right to say here that the High House is a madhouse, that something like this is happening here. [[Applause]] I think some of the fellow Members are sorry and have left the room, as they have heard, that you... Here's a tough discussion about real things, about what's going to happen to us. Here were the reasons and origins of what we have today in public media, because nothing happens without reason. This tough discussion must be held if we care about public media. Today there is no consent - I think that this project, looking so calmly, has no chance to function - for what you have presented. I thank the PiS Club for having withdrawn its rejection request, because it is necessary to discuss these solutions, to look for a good solution. Because if the voters of this part of the room are half against it today and if your voters don't want to pay, if 50% The society that didn't go to vote doesn't want to pay either, so who's going to pay? How many people can we force, coerce, make them pay? It's just unreal. Maybe they're not telling you this, Prime Minister, but people are coming in and saying straight: we don't want to pay for PiS TV, we won't pay for PiS TV, and no one's gonna make us do it. And that's the reality today. Therefore, on behalf of the applicants - and the applicants are not only Members of the PSL Club, but also European Democrats signed up for this project - thank you for this reflection, because this alternative solution we have presented is some solution. Of course, there are no perfect solutions. There are no ideal solutions, because, as the Prime Minister said, each of them has a political thread behind it, but it can't be extreme. It can't be extreme. Of course, everyone has their political sympathies, but if we fall into such an extreme, against society to do everything and show that we don't care about people, and we will chase them: pay, because we want our good propaganda, we won't get far. That is why I thank you very much for this discussion, Marshal, on the project. He doesn't cause controversy, though I won't tell him to be perfect. Perhaps the government would have speeded up the notification here, would have taken such action, because if you had started thinking in this direction, you would already have found a good solution, at least in this direction. It's just that you have to take the odium off the society, and you have to pay for what they don't like, what they don't want, what they don't accept. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u452	Thank you, sir. To correct Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u453	Your Marshal... [[Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: But I don't think I mentioned...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u454	There is no need for a name, Prime Minister, to mention, just in the context of speaking. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u455	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! You don't need to take things so emotionally because this debate was intense, but you can't even take the words of criticism. You said one thing: you wouldn't wish... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Piotrowicz, please. You said you wouldn't want anybody else to see the media you were in in the last crew. I don't think you know what these media are like right now. [[Applause]] [[Not like this. The scale is incomparable.]] [[That's what you think.]] There's one thing I want to tell you. It's not about the whole war, just don't defend this Kurski like Częstochowa. The worse the management guy, the more you defend him. No one understands that. All opposition parties, Prime Minister... One second. Minister, you have ownership of the television. If President Kurski completely fails to take into account the words of the Minister, the national media council, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It means there's something wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u456	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u457	Can't you guys really see how bad this TV thing is? [[Applause]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u458	One minute to corrigendum is over. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to reject both draft laws at first reading, from prints 1497 and 1587.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u459	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! 1. Have cable and satellite TV providers participated in the draft of this law? What positions were reported by them? 2. What if the operator signed contracts with the client 3, 5, 10 years ago? Does the operator have the right to provide such data without the consent of the client to the Polish Post Office? Let us remember that the client did not agree with the provision of their data to state institutions. 3. The proposed solutions treat the users of television sets selectively. The legislator forces only those who use paid television to pay their subscription, but in no way does this order include digital terrestrial television users, which is free and its offer is expanding all the time. Doesn't the legislator consider that such a solution will result in cable and satellite network operators losing subscribers who, as a result of additional costs, will start giving up their services for DVB-T? 4. Many Internet providers offer free TV channels for their contracts even to people who do not have a TV receiver. I know people who have signed contracts like this, and they don't have a TV. What in situations like this, will the user have to pay the subscription despite the lack of a TV? 5. What is the government's position on the statement by the General Data Protection Officer who stated that the collection of subscription fees should be based on public registers such as PESEL, CIT, PIT, ZUS, KRUS and NIP, and not on those which arise for their own use, in the context of commercial activities, because these data constitute a commercial secret for pay-tv operators? Please respond in writing as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Subscription Fees and the Act on Radio and Television and the Parliamentary bill amending the Act on Radio and Television and repealing the Act on Subscription Fees. The aim of both draft laws is to provide funding for public media. The government project provides for the sealing of the existing subscription fee collection system by including pay-TV providers, and the parliamentary project provides for the abolition of the subscription obligation for the transferred subsidies from the state budget of PLN 750 million. As we all know, the public broadcasters' mission is to broadcast programmes with pluralism, impartiality, balance and independence. They focus on fulfilling it, and financial benefits go to the second stage, which is the main objective of commercial media. It is the constant desire for profit that we witness the constant decline in the level of television and radio broadcasts and their ever worse and more embarrassing quality. However, today cheap and shallow ideological entertainment becomes a competition for the one which, in its assumption, should convey extremely valuable to the modern world, but often overlooked and forgotten values. As many times before, so today we can not all agree with the current form of governance of some parts of public media, but I am convinced that we are all aware of the importance of their existence. In order for public media to fulfil their mission, it is necessary to provide them with adequate financial support. Apart from the reasons why our citizens are reluctant to pay this specific tribute - because it did not happen today or two years ago, but it has been going on for a long time - it is no secret that the current method of downloadability of the subscription fee, which should provide this support, is ineffective. However, it is difficult to come up with a solution that would not be controversial. However, in my view, these solutions proposed in the parliamentary project will not improve the financial situation of public media, but will only increase their marginalisation. In addition, the compulsory subscription fee provided for in this project is a fiction designed to confuse the eyes of citizens. By transferring funds from the state budget, we pay all, not only those with radio and television receivers. I know that the government project also contains gaps and shortcomings, that it is not an ideal solution, but, unlike the parliamentary project, it is the one that I believe should be referred to further proceding. And so will the members of the Free and Solidarni wheels vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u461	We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 by the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk (prints 1512 and 1553). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u462	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 by the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk, print No. 1512. Draft resolution on Archbishop Tokarczuka reported to the Marshal's staff members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and she wrote earlier on this matter, proposing such an initiative, Dr. Ewa Leniart, a subcarpathian voivode. It expressed the opinion of many Podkarpacie communities, underground activists, farmers, independent culture people, historians, generally faithful Catholic Church and Poles attached to the idea of independent Poland. It is for these and many other environments, not only Podkarpacie, but I think that the whole of our homeland, as well as for Poles living outside Poland the memory of Archbishop. Ignacy Tokarczuk is a memory of a particular and unusual character. Archbishop Tokarczuk played a great role in the history of the Catholic Church in Poland, but also the universal Church, as a defender of the rights of the faithful against communism and a man engaged in actions for the freedom of man and independence of Poland, as a man who even organized actions for the freedom of our homeland. The Committee on Culture considered this draft at its meeting on 24 May this year, after examining the text submitted and introducing a number of minor stylistic and legislative amendments, it unanimously approved the resolution. I will read the text of the draft resolution: The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2018 by the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk was born on 1 February 1918 near Szbarzy in the peasant family. In 1942, he graduated from the Conspiracy Seminary in Lviv and was ordained priestly. In the southeast of the second Republic he survived the Soviet and German occupation and the threat from Ukrainian nationalists. In 1946 he had to leave the Soviet Lviv again. In 1951 he received a PhD in philosophy at the Catholic University of Lublin. Ignacy Tokarczuk received a bishop in Przemyśl on February 6, 1966. At that time he started the program of sacral construction, thanks to which, despite the opposition of the communists, more than 400 new churches were established in the Przemysl diocese until 1993. He gained respect and devotion to the faithful by uncompromising sermons and creating new social ties in the Church. In the '70s. The 20th century bishop's curia in Przemyśl was a meeting place for democratic opposition and independence, including a particularly independent peasant movement. During the years of martial law, she assisted interned families and was an enclave of independent Poland, an independent culture and a support centre for Poles engaged in anti-communist activities. Bishop Ignacy Tokarczuk, as a strong opponent of the Soviet occupation of Poland, was fought fiercely, under surveillance and falsely accused against the faithful and church leaders. After Poland regained its independence, in 1992 he became an archbishop of the metropolitan region of Przemysl. In 2006, he was awarded the Order of the White Eagle in recognition of his outstanding merits in his work for the freedom of his homeland. Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk died on 29 December 2012 in Przemyśl. The Holy Father John Paul II wrote to the Archbishop: 'You have become to the Przemysl Church, as well as to the Church throughout Poland, a fearless witness of the Gospel truth, a steadfast defender of [...] the rights of believers to express their religious beliefs [...]. You were a spokesperson for a nation fighting for its sovereignty in a fight against the totalitarian state system. Your voice, Shepherd, was heard throughout the whole country, strengthened in spirit and gave courage when it was hard." The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk - the metropolitan of Przemysl, the relentless defender of the rights of the faithful of the Catholic Church and one of the spiritual leaders of the peaceful struggles of the Polish nation for the independence of the Homeland, announces the year 2018 as the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I recommend that the High Sejm adopt a resolution on the establishment of 2018 as the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u463	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I will ask Mr Jack the World to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u464	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the establishment of 2018 with the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. I would like to declare, at first, that our club fully supports this beautiful initiative. It so happened in our history, in the latest fates of our country, that it was the clergy who were often the only or most effective leaders in their efforts for independence and sovereignty, that they gave examples of bravery, uncompromising towards totalitarianism, and before the conquerors, they initiated numerous self-help, charitable projects, they were just teachers of economy. One such priest was Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk, the steadfast preacher of historical truth, the strength of his character and faith fighting communist oppression, and earlier giving spirit in the fight against fascist oppression. or Ukrainian violence. He was a patron of independent artists, a patron of artists, a promoter of independent social movement of workers, and special care was given to farmers. He was an effective guardian of the persecuted. Finally, he was the largest church builder in Poland, and he built about 400 churches. Thanks to such brave people we survived the communist domination and, moreover, were well prepared to develop the regained sovereign state. Today I'm sure the name Ignacy Tokarczuka can be exchanged with one breath, in one line bet with the names of historical figures such as Wojtyła, Wyszyński, Hlond, Fireplace. I think it's the 100th anniversary of the Archbishop's birthday. Ignacy Tokarczuk is a very good time to remind everyone of this beautiful figure and to commemorate it properly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u465	Thank you very much, sir. And now Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u466	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk was one of the most famous hierarchs of the Catholic Church in Poland. He was called a steadfast bishop. He was born on February 1, 1918 in the Upper Lubiankas near Zbaraz. He was ordained in Lviv in 1942. He survived the massacre that occurred as a result of the UPA attack and left Lviv in 1945. He became a vicar in the parish of Christ the King in Katowice, but because he was in conflict with the communist authorities, he had to move many times. In 1965, the pope appointed him the head of the Przemysl diocese. Because he opposed the actions of the then power and had the courage to express this opposition loudly - I quote: the Polish people live in abnormal times, and the system proposed by the Communists is lawless dressed in robes of law - he became interested in the Security Service. During many festivities, he gave 61 sermons containing hostile - of course it is a quote - accents to power. In the 1970s, he became very involved as a pastor of the opposition. He helped KOR, ROPCiO, the Self-Defense Committee of the Lublin Boys' Land and NSZZ Solidarity. In 1991 he was appointed Archbishop of John Paul II. He was awarded the Order of the White Eagle in 2006. The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the resolution on the establishment of 2018 by the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u467	Thank you very much, Member. Another Member, Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ignacy Tokarczuk was an outstanding Polish priest. He became a bishop as a result of an oversight of the authorities of the Polish People's Republic, which did not veto him as a nominate within the prescribed time limits. The impeccable bishop in the fight against communism, but above all he is steadfast in building the Church in Poland. He was such a great builder of the Church. Without permission he built about 430 churches and chapels, formed 220 new parishes, but mostly he built the Church in people, because when he prayed with them, when he encouraged them, he made them stop being afraid, and it was so significant. He also carefully selected the young clergy whom he sent to the parishes he created because he thought it was better that there should be a priest out there than that there should be a priest who would alienate people to the Church, so much cared for the good name of the Church. He openly opposed people's power. When this one sent a complaint to the Vatican, he sent a listening device, which he found with him, as evidence of lawlessness in Poland. Man of faith, faith in God, but above all also faith in freedom, faith in Poland. He believed that the countries of Central and Eastern Europe would be liberated from the yoke of communism. He was very supportive of opponents, those who were repressed in war, and he kept them at his place. From Przemyśl he created a true bastion of faith and freedom, which radiated not only on Poland but also on the whole of Europe. The Kukiz Club15 fully supports the resolution submitted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u469	Thank you very much, Member. Modern Club, Mr Marek Owa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u470	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Next year Poland will celebrate the century of its independence. Independence, which was not given to us, but came in the effort and sacrifice of millions of Poles, including those who built it, and when it was necessary, they guarded it and died for it. We are lucky that today we are often the first generation who does not know the war and has the chance to build a free and prosperous Poland in the longest time of peace for centuries. We owe this freedom not only to the Lord of history, as the Holy Father John Paul said 18 years ago in this room. II, but also many great people, heroes of the difficult everyday life of this century. Among them is undoubtedly an independent peer - Fr. Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. His life story reflects the history of our country. Born on the eastern border, his future naturally connected with his family's Ends. Unfortunately, Soviet aggression prevented him from completing his theological studies at the University of Jan Kazimierz in Lviv. He had to flee and protect himself from the Bolshevik invader, sharing his exile from his homeland with millions of his compatriots both during and after the war. When we look at the places where he came to work first as a priest and then as a bishop during the period of the Polish Republic, we will see how Poland and Poles reflected in his life story. Expelled from Lviv, he began his pastoral work in Katowice, driven away from Silesia, he went to serve people in Lębork and Kashubia, and then in Olsztyn. Involved in social and pastoral activities he managed to defend his doctoral thesis at the Catholic University of Lublin and then carried out scientific activities both in Lublin and Olsztyn. He became a bishop in 1965, as the legend says, by failing to see the communist authorities who did not block the nomination, which from the perspective of who he was then and what Archbishop Tokarczuk did, must be recorded to Polish communists as undoubtedly, but by chance merit. His bishop's life was connected to the Diocese of Przemysl. He was feared by the Communists, and the opposition at that time, both by the KOR and the Human and Civil Rights Movement or by the Lublin peasant land defence committee, and after 1980, Solidarity was supported and supported. Cheated and under surveillance by the SB, he proved to be a solid priest and a symbol of resistance to the communist authorities, and after 1989 he supported the revival of free Poland, which was awarded with the highest award - the Order of the White Eagle. The lives and activities of this outstanding clergyman are still an inspiration to many people. The believers see in him not only the consecrated pastor, but also the spiritual guide, but those who do not share this religious reference, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they find in the person of the archbishop. Tokarczuka example of a sincere and uncompromising patriot. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the resolution of the Sejm on the establishment of 2018 by the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u471	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u472	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to say that today it is difficult to question the resume and achievements of archbishops. Touchdown. His influence on the fate of Poland, Podkarpacie, the Przemysl Church is known to everyone. First of all, the fight against communist totalitarianism, the fight for human rights, respect for man, bringing the truth - is his merit. His peasant background made him feel the village, feel the agriculture. He felt sentimental about this social layer, which was not always seen in everyone. Many times I had the opportunity to meet him and talk to him. He felt a disgusting taste, he said: Mr, this was not the way it was supposed to be, it was wrong in Poland. So that was his concern, too. He did not understand what then began to happen in Poland, the evil one. I think that if he were among us today, many things in Poland might look different. He became famous for the construction of many churches on Przemysl's land; in my parish there was also a church. He had ways of doing it, he could organize people, priests, instruct, guide. In communist times, when it was impossible, Ignacy Tokarczuk, the archbishop of Przemysl - earlier bishop, later archbishop - knew how to do it. The people of God, the people of Podkarpacie, I think, are grateful to him for that. That is why I speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party that we are in favour of celebrating the 100th anniversary of his birthday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u473	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, near the European Union of Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u474	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! About the European Union of Democrats supports this resolution, it is obvious. In fact, all these statements, all these statements that have been made so far, we think it is right. Therefore, I will actually limit myself to a brief comment on this resolution. I just wanted to say thank you. There's an opportunity to thank the Archbishop. Tokarczuk. I had the honor of participating in the ROPCiO... I remember talking, I was in those conversations. It was very important moral aid, but also organizational aid - the most difficult one, of course discreet for understandable reasons and a little risky for the archbishop, for the Church. For this place and for this place on behalf of all those ROPCiO colleagues who have no opportunity, no opportunity, I wanted to thank you. This resolution is basically not the worst, but a few things... Term adversary of the Soviet occupation. There was no Soviet occupation. Have a little taste in your historical fanaticism. The Soviet occupation. The years 1939-1941, possibly, can be called this, but not the whole period of the People's Republic of Poland. Here you can still say, well, well, I'd rather not have PiS wiping his mouth, so to speak, Bishop. Tokarczuk, because Bishop Tokarczuk fought for freedom, fought for democratic Poland. There is such a nice passage here: Your voice, Shepherd, was listened to throughout the country, strengthened in spirit and gave courage when it was hard. Today, too, is difficult because PiS breaks freedom, destroys democracy in Poland. Archbishop Tokarczuk has left his legacy. I very much regret that today the Church is embezzling this heritage. There you go, one of the archbishops of the Church. Is that the voice of Bishop? Touchdown? Even communism or Hitlerism did not call into question the fact that someone is a woman, someone else a man and has certain functions to fulfil, and today this is being challenged. I understand that Nazism and communism were better than today. I don't have time to quote other statements of equally prominent activists. Not the whole Church - to be clear - but its essential part... An important part of the Church is now embezzled by Archbishop's legacy. Tokarczuka, that can only be expressed for this reason, to put it mildly, embarrassment and embarrassment. The PiS is the last formation that has today the right to appeal to the Bishop. Tokarczuka, because you're breaking the rules for which Archbishop Tokarczuk sacrificed himself. This is the reason why I would ask you to do something else, to read, to do the work of the Bishop. Tokarczuk and returned to what Bishop Tokarczuk was fighting for, and they did not use this figure for your poor policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u475	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u476	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk is an undisputed authority, a stable shepherd. He became famous for his uncompromising attitude towards the Polish People's Republic and its reality. Through his sermons, religious construction in the Przemysl diocese carried out against the will of power and supporting independent initiatives he prepared laymen to act in free and sovereign Poland, especially since the establishment of the NSZZ and Solidarity of Individual Farmers. He was one of the biggest critics of communism and the Polish-run party crew. He was negative in 1988 for some of the activists of the "Solidarity" centered around the Lech Wałęsa talks with PZPR activists. He thought that all conversations with communists were barren and doomed to failure. All the more so he did not approve of the role of the Catholic Church at that time, which became a mediator of the talks undertaken by both parties and, in time, a guarantor of them. He openly criticized the so-called. a thick line, understood by him as an unwillingness to settle the crimes of communism, to stop decommunization and illustriousness, and finally consent to the embezzlement of the communist nomenclature and the impunity of PZPR activists. The communist authorities, in revenge, repeatedly tried to get him removed from the Bishopship, directing accusations to the Vatican and suggesting that Archbishop Tokarczuk is the main opponent of the so-called. standardization between the State and the Church. However, thanks to his uncompromising attitude towards communist power, as well as support given to the democratic opposition as a church hierarch, he established himself in the Episcopate of Poland and enjoyed the trust and appreciation of opposition groups in the Polish People's Republic. Decorated by the archbishop. Ignacy Tokarczuk's way, without any doubt on my part, contributed to Poland's independence. The Polish Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 as the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u477	Thank you very much, Member. On the list of people who want to ask a question in this part of the session of the Sejm, one Member, Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice, has signed up. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u478	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am extremely grateful to my colleagues at the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice that we have taken the initiative to establish 2018 as the Year of Archbishop Tokarczuk. An impeccable bishop - a name such as that of Jehovah's Witnesses. The archbishop who was born in 1918 near Zbaraż, the archbishop Zbaraż, whose defense was described by Sienkiewicz. Perhaps the spirit of this defense was about his personality qualities and the power of faith. At the same time, he witnessed a massacre on his family by UPA gangs. How well are we today aware of the charism of this personality of the Church, but also of the great son of the Polish nation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u479	Thank you. As there was no question in this part of the statement, I understand that the rapporteur of the committee will not speak. I don't see your envoy, but I think that's the way it is. Exactly, there was no question, more of Mr Kurzepa's statement. I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 by the Year of the Jubilee of the 250th anniversary of the Bar Confederation (prints Nos 1513 and 1552). I ask Mr Robert Kołakowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I have the honour to present a report on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 by the Year of the 250th anniversary of the Bar Confederation, prints 1513 and 1552. This project was submitted by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering the draft resolution at its meeting on 24 May this year, during which the title of the resolution has been amended and several editorial amendments have been introduced, asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft resolution in the following wording. [[We know the content, sir.]] But it wouldn't hurt to quote it. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of the year 2018 as the Year of the Bar Confederation. In 2018 marks the 250th anniversary of the establishment of the Bar Confederation (1768-1772) - the armed union of the Polish nobility established in the Bar in Podole on 29 February 1768 in defence of the Catholic faith and independence of the Republic of Poland, the first great Polish national uprising. The purpose of the Confederation was to abolish the treaty imposed by Russia by which the Republic became a Russian protectorate and the laws adopted by the Russian forces of the Sejm, which gave equality to the inno-believers. The Act of the Confederation proclaimed: everywhere, to each and every individual, that the council, dignitaries, nobles and citizens, gathers to the rescue of the disgraced Homeland, faith, freedom of laws and national freedoms. The Barska Confederation lasted the longest of all uprisings and covered the largest area of the Republic of Poland. More than 100,000 fought on the Confederate side. People. Several hundred battles and skirmishes were fought. After the collapse of the Bar Confederation, some of its leaders remained in exile, several thousand prisoners were sent to Siberia, a large number of Confederates were incorporated into the Tsar army, and the propaganda of the neighbouring states tried to use this raid as one of the pretexts for the First Partition of Poland. The Barska Confederation, together with the Constitution on 3 May and the Kościuszko Uprising, entered the collective memory of Poles as examples of the struggle for freedom, which especially during the partitions was of great importance for the survival of the nation and which was most often referred to in the 19th century. Due to the works of the romantic wizards - Adam Mickiewicz, Juliusz Słowacki or Zygmunt Krasiński - the Confederates were presented as martyrs for their faith, freedom and homeland. Thanks to this, the Bar Confederation has become one of the breakthrough moments in the history of national consciousness and it is easy to find the distinctive features of all subsequent Polish breaks, until modern times. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland establishes 2018 as the Year of the Bar Confederation. He also believes that anniversary celebrations will contribute to the restoration of this first Polish national uprising in the defence of faith and freedom, which was removed from collective memory by communist historiography, its place in the history of our Nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u481	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would first ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka, the Law and Justice Club, to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u482	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The bar confederation deserves our attention, already as one of the most important, perhaps even groundbreaking moments in the history of national consciousness, it is already a movement in which, as in the magnifying lens, you can see a lot of elements consisting in the Polish way of understanding politics and activities in the public sphere. - wrote Tomasz Merta, an idea historian, Deputy Minister of Culture who died in Russia in the Smolensk catastrophe several years ago. You can list these elements several and Merta in their article about the Republican character of the Bar give them, but it is worth adding what is obvious. Freedom as a superior value, freedom as an immanent feature of Polishness. Bar confederates have commanded four years of heavy fighting that we can't be converted into any kind of prayer, because we're going to fight blood against it. The Confederation was founded almost immediately after the Polish king was placed on the throne by the tsaryca of Russia signed a treaty on the inclusion of the Republic of Poland under the Russian rectorate. It is a rebellion giving access to the insurrection of Kościuszko, the Legions of Dąbrowski, and then living heritage in the November uprising and subsequent. Oh, Russian propaganda has worked hard over the centuries to make her picture in Poles croak, destroy, laugh. Fortunately, without great success, because small, yes, she did. We owe this above all to the great free Poles - Maurice Mochnacki, Adam Mickiewicz, Juliusz Słowacki. Because it was the subject of romantics - the struggle for freedom of heirs of Polish knights and prophecies, and messianicism. The Prophecy of Fr. Mark: And you will rise like a Phoenix from the ashes, Poland. The first in Polish lands is huge, because it involves the whole country and 100,000. People, anti-Russian uprising. Against opposition to the attempt to cultural change of Polish society, among others. by attempting to russify the state and align the Orthodox with the Catholic faith, after rebellion against the assassination of republican rules governing the noble society. To weapons - unequal, guerrilla, without trained troops and staff, because it was simply not here after years of Moscow's keeping its interests, where we know it - you stood brothers in almost all corners of the Republic of Poland. When in one voivodeship or district Russian troops together with those under the leadership of King Stanisław Poniatowski managed to suffocate the confederation, it exploded in the next. It was a widespread rebellion of small and medium nobles, born not in the magnate houses, but in the noble houses. An uprising for which, as well as for others, its participants paid dearly - death on the battlefield, long imprisonment, exile to Siberia. This universality and popularity of the confederation, not in the sense of the participation of peasant troops, but of the noble people, also of the walls, also had such a characteristic dimension of the Marian movement combining faith with deep patriotism. I'll never be in the Alyanas with kings. We'll never bend our necks before the power. ♪ For with Christ ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're in the wards-- Mary's servants. So even though the world breaks and the sun shudders, Even though the clouds and the seas will tarnish - On the dragons of the flying army They won't bother us. Law and Justice supports the draft resolution. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u483	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the rich history of Poland there are many important, important, often dramatic events, which certainly deserve to be emphasized by the resolution of the Sejm. The question is whether a bar confederation can be included in such events. According to many historians, the bar confederation is one of the most controversial events in our history. It is true that it was attached under the slogans of defending faith and freedom, that it was a national uprising against the intervention of Tsarica Catherine II in the internal affairs of the Republic. But it is also true that it was a civil war against the reforms of King Stanisław August Poniatowski. We must remember that the nobles have set themselves the goal of overthrowing the king. The Confederates announced his detronization and attempted to kidnap Stanisław August Poniatowski. The Republic was drowning in chaos. Those events are eluded by clear-sounding grades. The four-year act of the Confederates was idealized by the Romantics, highlighting the patriotic and anti-Russian merits of the speech in defence of the endangered freedom. Positivism did not spare them the words of condemnation, mainly for their lack of religious tolerance, secularism, conservative and anti-reformist attitude. In this situation, appreciating of course the contribution of Polish patriots to the defence of the Republic of Poland from 250 years ago, one should ask whether every event in the rich history of Poland should be treated with a separate resolution of the Parliament. The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of establishing 2018 as the Year of the Bar Confederation, leaving only its quite important doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u485	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, even after so many years, the bar confederation raises some controversy and discussions, not only among historians but also in the Supreme House. The Kukiz Club15 will also support the resolution. It was a fight for Polishness, there is no doubt. At the same time, it is a pity that in such an important jubilee year we will not honor this victorious uprising, the Wielkopolska Uprising. After 123 years of captivity, it was indeed a great thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u487	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, after 250 years, we can refer to these events in retrospect. There is no discussion that the bar confederation can be regarded as the first such a really big break and such a national uprising. Several tens of thousands of people have been involved in the fight against the Russians for four years. It is only a pity that this uprising started rather the defeats of our uprisings, so unfortunately it proved that we were not so determined as to cast off the yoke of Russia, which, however, had already begun to interfere very strongly in Polish affairs, starting from the pressure on the election of Stanisław August Poniatowski as king, through the introduction of 40 thousand Russian troops into Poland, to the extortion of the treaty on friendship and the Russian protectorate. It's all caused... Indeed, resistance came because people felt that it was wrong that Poland could lose its sovereignty. As for the doubts about this whole confederation, this is quite an interesting situation when it comes to the support of the Confederates by the Church, because on the one hand the Confederates actually fought under the slogans of defending faith, Catholicism and independence, but at some point the Church cut off from the Confederates, assuming that they were against the king, who is an anointed God, so they felt that it was not good to support those who intended to be king. It was also wrong that the Confederates, who wanted to make sure that Poland was only for Catholics, caused Poland to stop being such a country open to non-believers. This dislike of Protestants due to the pressures of Frederick the Great and Catherine II, the Orthodox pressures have actually caused this resistance against the operation of innobeliers and fear that they will get the same rights as Christians and Catholics, in fact, have caused the Confederates to be perceived a little bit as those who stopped this wonderful period of religious freedom, which was then in Poland. Perhaps this is one of the few things that casts a shadow on a very noble insurgent break, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Except, of course, the episode of the kidnapping of King Stanisław August Poniatowski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u489	Thank you. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Around European democrats support this resolution, but after 250 years, it would be incomprehensible and unintelligible if we were against it. I'm not gonna repeat those charges here anymore. It was absurd that you presented this story with the PiS message. Unilateral, false and completely thoughtless. How can you praise e.g. A confederation act like that? I don't know. Is that intentional? I mean, it's not like it's anything. Terrorized by the Russian troops, the Sejm gave equality to the innogers. It's a terrible crime, indeed. Giving equality to non-innocent people is a horrible crime. This is the reason why civil war was started in Poland. The Bar Confederation was a civil war, as it was also an uprising in such a sense: against Russian domination, but Poland was a sovereign state in the sense that it had a king, had a government, but was actually subjected to Russian domination... [[Where were the Russian troops? Isn't it within the borders of Poland? Don't lie to me.]] Don't disturb me, you've already spoken your wisdom, your brilliant PiS-wisdom. You already told me. Against this unilateral history, near European democrats protests. We pay tribute only to the heroes who fought for Poland, we pay tribute to soldiers, to all those who fought with Suvorov's armies, to Moscow's troops. And that's it. [[Oh, were there any troops?]] On the other hand, we do not pay tribute to backward anti-reform ideas. This is not only the kidnapping of the king, Mr. President, a stupid, mindless act that isolated Poland in Europe, but also actions against peasants. After all, the Confederates committed what can be said openly today, crimes in the Ukrainians, in the national minorities. They were intolerant groups, such poops - then they said - nobles who were doing... Because they were losing to Suvorov, they didn't stand a chance here, didn't show any success, they were winning against Jews, with Ukrainian peasants killing people. That's no reason to boast. The Confederates did a great service of Slovak songs by Salomei's Silver Dream, Father Marek. He created a myth, a myth of the bar confederation that persists - this myth - noble and beautiful, only has little to do with reality. It was actually the first such uprising, all others were tragic, the worst Warsaw, already the most tragic, all other uprisings. We started a series of five uprisings. Whatever it is, it's a bigger disaster. So that I would also ask the authors of this type of resolution to think a little bit, because I do not ask you to think a little, because this is too far-reaching and insolent demand from me that you, before you open your mouth, think a little, but from the authors of this resolution I expect you to read Konopczyński, Zamoyski, maybe read some Pogod-Malinowski, read some history... [[And Repnina.]] ... Halecki, you'll see that just your historiosophy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To put it mildly, she's off-limits. Despite all these comments, due to the shed Polish blood in defence of freedom near the European Union, Democrats support this draft resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u491	Thank you, sir. Nobody signed up for questions. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u492	On behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the establishment of 2018 as the Year of the 250th anniversary of the Bar Confederation. The purpose of the Confederacy was to free Poland from Russia's domination by abolishing the treaty by which the Republic became a Russian protectorate and the laws adopted by the Pro-Russian Sejm. The Bar Confederation lasted the longest of all uprisings, covering the largest area of the Republic of Poland. More than 100,000 fought on the Confederate side. People, several hundred battles and battles have been fought. After the collapse of the Bar confederation, some of its leaders remained in exile, several thousand prisoners were sent to Siberia, and a large number of Confederates were incorporated into the Tsar army. The propaganda of the neighbouring states used this gap as one of the pretexts for the first partition of Poland. The Bar Confederation together with the Constitution on 3 May and the Kościuszko Uprising are the main elements of the tradition of fighting for freedom, thanks to which Poland was maintained despite the partitions throughout the 19th century. That's enough reason to establish the 2018 bar confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u493	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 by Irena Sendler (prints No 1514 and 1577). I ask Mr Grzegorz Puda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I have the honour to present the committee's report on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 as the Year of Irena Sendler. According to Art. Article 32a (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on 21 April this year. Marshal of the Sejm sent a draft resolution to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading. The committee president held its first reading at its meeting on 25 May. The proposed amendments tabled by the members of the committee and the Legislative Bureau were taken into account during the meeting. Following the discussion, the members unanimously adopted the draft resolution. In this connection, the committee has given a positive opinion on this draft resolution and we are presenting it to the High House in the following wording, asking for its adoption: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of the year 2018 by Irena Sendlerova. Irena Sendlerova, nicknamed occupation 'Jolanta', is an outstanding Polish social activist. She was born on 15 February 1910 in Warsaw, where she died on 12 May 2008. During World War II, as head of the Children's Council for Jewish Aid, she organized a network of people and institutions with whom she helped children from the ghetto. She helped to save about 2500 Jewish children from the Holocaust. At risk of life, heroism, in the largest conspiracy she led children out of the Warsaw ghetto, and then found them shelter in Polish families, monasteries and nursing homes. In October 1943, Irena Sendlerov was arrested, interrogated and tortured at the Gestapo headquarters at Shucha Avenue and imprisoned for 100 days in Pawiak. Even under threat of death penalty, she did not betray her associates or reveal any information. Irena Sendler's record of rescued children allowed them to know their own identity, as well as to find loved ones after World War II. Irena Sendlerov was honored in 1965 with the Medal of the Righteous Among the Nations, in 2003 - the Order of the White Eagle, in 2007 - the Order of Smile. Since 1990 Honorary citizen of the State of Israel. On the 10th anniversary of the death of Irena Sendler, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the Sejm, which with its greatest dedication worked to save the other man, and announces the year 2018 with the Year of Irena Sendler. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u495	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anita Czerwińska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Irena Sendlerowa was raised in the social tradition of Polish intelligence drawing patterns from ideals of work for others, ideals born of the spirit of Polish positivism. The willingness to sacrifice in solidarity with the sufferers has taken it out of the house. Her social father, the real Dr. Judy, dedicated his life to helping the poorest. She has tried to defend the poor and persecuted since her high school scouts, which promoted humanitarian patterns. During her studies, she chose the teaching practice at the home of orphans Janusz Korczak, and then she strongly opposed the anti-Semitic campaign at the University of Warsaw. After completing it, she started working in Warsaw's social services institutions. She also worked directly with people in need as a social worker during the occupation and helped Polish soldiers with tuberculosis. As a volunteer worker, so-called. The sanitary column provided medicine, clothing and food to the Warsaw ghetto. The most famous fact of the occupation activity of Irena Sendler is her cooperation with the organization of the Sister Franciscans of the Mary family and other convents of the nuns. She managed to save over 2,000. Jewish children and a large number of adults. She is less familiar with her involvement in helping families arrested PPS activists. She survived Shucha and Pawiak to save the lives of the wounded insurgent hospital. After the war, she didn't get her reward, she got an interview at the Public Security Office. In the post-war period, she worked in many social organizations, among others. at the PCK and the Children's Friends Society. Irena Sendler is an unsurpassed social model and a true signpost for those who feel in solidarity with those who are suffering and persecuted. This wonderful figure deserves every form of commemoration. May one of them become the 2018 Irena Sendler Year. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice strongly supports this resolution and will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u497	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u498	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Irena Sendlerova was a great woman. Anyway, here it is. We've heard, and if you don't mind, I'm not going to repeat this unique resume. I hope that he is the person who, when voting on the resolution on the establishment of 2018 will join this House in the year of Irena Sendler. That's what I'd really like to wish for, because she deserved it. Those who were lucky enough to know her, know that she has kept her concern and passion for the last few days. I, as I say, will no longer remind you of all the facts, but I would like to say that this year can also be such a message for all of us here, much wider and even beyond Mrs. Irena Sendler's excellent achievements, because her example and activities teach that people cannot remain passive and cannot remain silent, knowing that there is harm to another man somewhere next to them. Doesn't that sound like it's still happening? I think it sounds good. Maybe we should think about it. And on the margins of this resolution, which, of course, the Civic Platform Club wholeheartedly supports, I have this proposal, attention, actually the question, I don't know. We sometimes make very noble resolutions here, we pass patrons of the following years and these patrons are sometimes very many, and the truth is, since debate, adoption, raising hands is a week, two and there is no problem, we do not know whether there is any more program of celebrations or if something is happening. It's the system's fault, and to tell you the truth, I don't know why, but it's just a little operational right now. So far, before that, the government has proposed various kinds of patronages, however, with the presented programme of action. We asked the applicants of this type of resolution, the committee - I say this, I apologize, so historically, but I remember that - even if it was some social society, they also presented an action programme. I would very much like Irena Sendler's year to be a very rich and very well-promoted program of celebrations this year. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u499	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Irena Sendlerov is undoubtedly one of the most outstanding women in the 20th century. She has spent her whole life sacrificing the needy children while maintaining extreme modesty. For a long time, as my predecessors have calculated, how many have helped, how many have fought for human life. It is surprising that it was not until 1999, after the students in the United States exhibited the theatrical art with a significant title of life in a jar. We are pleased that in such an important jubilee year it was Irena Sendlerowa who was so honored, because she should be the important element in the fight for the good name of Poland in the world. And this is very necessary today, because after 1989. Poland had to face many accusations, even being treated as the perpetrator of the terrible events of the 20th century. But for that you need more commitment and diplomatic services, and all of us here. At the end of the film, she said: As long as I live, as long as I have the strength, I will always say that the most important thing in the world and in life is good. And actually this maxim expresses the most profoundly how honorable, noble person was Irena Sendlerov. The Kukiz Club15 fully supports the resolution submitted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u501	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If it hadn't been for the Kansas high school girls in 1999, probably no one would have heard about Iren Sendler, the outstanding Polish woman, and the amazing man. If it wasn't for those high school girls who found a story somewhere about little cards put in jars, maybe today we wouldn't be talking about this great person. A lot of warm words came out here today, from this speaker, about Mrs. Iren Sendler, and there's nothing to repeat. I would like to quote one of her statements, which I found in one of the interviews: I am greatly embarrassed personally by the whole circle that constantly makes us heroes, the great manifestations that accompany the planting of the tree in Jerusalem, the great celebration that takes place in Israel. It's very embarrassing for people like me who don't think they're great people or heroes. We did it as a perfectly normal thing, according to the principle that when a man drowns, the other one has to shake his hand or even a small finger. This emphasis on the extraordinaryness of our work is embarrassing. The Jews, the French, the Germans are the same people as us. It was the only idea we had. What we did came from the need of hearts. These words are in our time, in 2017, in Europe so much so that they hurt. I would like my colleagues in law and justice in particular to take it to heart. Of course, the Modern supports this proposal and we are very pleased that in 2018, I hope, in a year also women, we will be able to talk about Iren Sendlerova and pass on to our generations what a woman she was. [[It's a shame to use such a person for political speeches.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u503	Thank you. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u504	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club supports the motion of the Ombudsman to establish Irena Sendler in 2018. This courageous woman has witnessed with her whole life that one man's attitude can change the world for the better. Today, at a time of growing consumerism and the disappearance of human bonds, the current message of Irena Sendler continues to take on special power: let us make a civilization of love. We should still learn from it the tolerance and dignity of every human being, the need to help the weaker. Irena Sendlerov risked her own life during the occupation, saving Jewish children. She didn't think it was a great act, but a mere human gesture. She wasn't a radical, she was just trying to protect the children from being killed by the Nazis. She explained that it was just the right thing to do, because indifference to evil is as reprehensible as doing it. After the war, she said she could always do even more. Today, in Polish public life, we particularly need models promoting the ideas of human solidarity. We need heroes to restore the importance of a well-known saying that building bridges between people is better than building walls. Irena Sendlerov never sorted people out for better or worse because of ideas, race, or religion. She kept saying that people were only divided into good and bad. It is our duty as parliamentarians to save the work of Irena Sendler, i.e. to believe in equality of all men, in the advantage of good over evil, in the primacy of altruism over selfishness, and also to believe that one can vary in a beautiful way, and a better world is created only by a community. An example of this unique woman from each of us can make a better man. We hope that honoring Sendler will remind Poles that it is worth being decent, and ordinary human goodness is one of the most important values in life. The PSL Club fully supports the idea of establishing the year 2018 as the Irena Sendler Year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u505	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For obvious reasons, which do not even seem to require justification, near the Union of European Democrats, as all clubs will vote in favour of this resolution. And that's obvious. The heroics, Mrs. Irena Sendler's sacrifice are undisputed and deserve it. I wanted to thank the spokesperson on the rights of the child for remembering that. That's what heroism is about. A few comments, on the other hand. Are there any... Are there any limits to hypocrisy? I don't know if there's any... meaning... Here, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska said that of course beautifully raises hands, makes beautiful resolutions, then nothing follows in the sense that there is no memory, there is no celebration. In fact, everyone, or a large part of people, thinks that they have fulfilled a beautiful moral duty and are actually such contemporary Sendler Irenas because they raised their hand. This is obvious and with Mrs Iwona Śledzińska, my underground colleague, I agree. But there is a second aspect, and this aspect is a little broader. It is about the justification of this resolution. What is the point of writing such words at all: "People cannot remain passive and remain silent, knowing that there is harm to another person somewhere next to them? ' And the PiS Members are so happy to sign with such an emphase, they support it. Or would you say Stachowiak's family? To Igor Stachowiak's family would you go to Wroclaw and say that? Or do you have today's contemporaries running away from death? Such Jews today, who run from persecution, from death, we have in Europe. I don't recall... Here someone said right: build bridges, not walls, not barbed wire at borders, not guard booths at borders. And here's an example that on the one hand you support, very rightly, something obvious, but on the other hand, when anything starts to cost you, we have a disgusting, disgusting propaganda of hatred that you push, propaganda of contempt and hatred. How can one at the same time support Irena Sendler and support those who shout: And the communists will hang on trees instead of leaves? I recommend PiS reflect at this point. What does that mean? After all, Irena Sendlerov was, on the one hand, threatened by German invaders, it is clear, the Nazis, but on the other hand, she was threatened by goldsmiths, by natives, raised on such a political vulture as ONR before the war. And who's the politician? ONR supports today, this has no moral right to vote on this resolution. [[Applause]] And I suggest a little reflection that this hypocrisy, which here is pushed mainly by the PiS, because it's probably the biggest, so to speak, the political parasite in this room, is as low as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u507	Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u508	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I am honored to present my position on the establishment of 2018 as the Year of Irena Sendler. Irena Sendler, I hope, no one needs to be introduced. It is almost an icon of the Polish underground, the Righteous Among the Nations, an honorary citizen of the state of Israel. Few who have such great altruistic actions in their account deserve so much admiration. Few had the courage to save others from the Warsaw ghetto and thus save about 2.5 thousand from destruction. Jewish children. Faithfulness to ideals and loyalty to coworkers was preserved even during torture at the Gestapo headquarters in Shucha Avenue. All her life, Irena Sendlerov fought for others, their equality and the possibility of a worthy existence. Her attitude toward those in need, especially children and old people, is admirable and exemplary. It can still be an example for many young people today who forget that we should not hurt others, nor can we be passive towards those who are being harmed. It is her attitude that middle school students from Gdansk should remember, who did not stand up for their helpless friend. That's the kind of pattern they're supposed to draw from. Admiring the attitude of Irena Sendler, near Free and Solidarnia, she will vote in favour of establishing the year 2018 as the Year of Irena Sendler to celebrate the 10th anniversary of her death. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u509	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr. Mark Michalak's Child Rights Officer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u510	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is worth noting and reminding that Irena Sendler has discovered children. First American children pointed out that among us there is a great, superior person, a person who has done so much good, however much to count, to estimate, has done more than any other person. And then a 16-year-old boy from Zielona Góra decided to reward Irena Sendlera from children with the Order of Smile. It was him, Simon the Canvasser, who won that award for her at the end of her life. When she got this information, I remember, she said, I heard on the phone: sir, this is the most beautiful thing that ever happened to me. She hesitated for a while. and says, "Besides this letter, you know which one, from the Holy Father." It is also worth noting that in 2008 the Children's and Youth Sejm adopted a resolution on honoring the activities of Irena Sendler and these children then, very seriously analysing the life of Irena Sendler, wrote in this resolution: "Irena Sendler's example and people like it, who never hesitate to help those in need, teaches that we too cannot be passive and silent when we know that someone, both in the vicinity and throughout the globe, is hurt. When he is persecuted because of his origin, religion or skin color. In such cases, our voices of support and solidarity for the victims, and our opposition to their oppressors, although individual, seem insignificant, together constitute a great strength. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly, ladies and gentlemen, for their support for the initiative of the Ombudsman on the establishment of the year 2018 by Irena Sendler, which was supported in writing by 4755 people at the time by the school community. Irena Sendler. When Irena Sendlerova was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize - it was a great loss for the Nobel Prize that they didn't give her the Nobel Prize then - she said that she had her Nobel in these schools, that is her Nobel, those children who go to school her name. And today they also expressed their support in special letters addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm. For this, too, I would like to thank them very warmly, because this is another voice of young people, young people looking for values. I am delighted that this proposal by the Ombudsman has been accepted with kindness and today as a draft resolution tabled by a group of Members is being followed in the Sejm. I would also like to thank you for your unanimity when working on the project in committee. This is an extremely important and necessary resolution. Its adoption by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland will allow not only to commemorate the great figure of Irena Sendlerov, and its invaluable merits, but also to remind everyone throughout 2018 of the human dignity, the necessity to protect the rights of every human being, the values of human life, kindness and courage. The humble Irena Sendlerov... Every time she came to see me, she'd say, "Don't make a hero out of me, I'm nothing." I didn't do it. Everyone should do it. I say, Mrs. Irene, did everyone do it? That's when she let her eyes down. The humble Irena Sendler has done a great work. She saved about 2,500 Jewish children on one side, not only saved them, she risked her own life at least 2,500 times, but showed the world that every single person can do a lot for the benefit of others, that courage and determination and extraordinary respect for respect for human rights have a great amount of power. The establishment by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of 2018 by the Year of Irena Sendlerowa will be a beautiful lesson of humanity for society and a necessary direction indicator. The values that Irena Sendler has presented with her whole life must be reminded that young people - those who also remind us - who live in other realities - may reflect on them and put them into their everyday lives. Irena Sendlerova said that people should be divided into good and bad, that race, origin, religion, education, wealth have no meaning but who is human. A human being. To her, man was a value of human dignity. We really need such authority today. We need young people, we need us too. People determined to help another man. If I may, I would also like to say from this place that the spokesperson for the rights of the child will be a credible guarantee that the Year of Irena Sendler will be celebrated dignifiedly. As I once requested, the High Chamber established the Year of Janusz Korczak. Janusz Korczak returned to our reality today because there were so many different initiatives, so many different people were involved, so many different institutions. I believe that Irena Sendlerov will also connect all these and others. This is undoubtedly one of the greatest figures of our present day. Thank you very much for this kind adoption of the project and I hope that we will be able to say that next year's patron is the great Irena Sendlerov. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u511	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has a voice. There's no envoy. In that case, I invite Mr Jack Kurzepa from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u512	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Colleagues - especially from the Law and Justice Club! Thank you for taking the initiative of the Ombudsman and for letting us debate today on this proposal to establish the Year of Irena Sendler. How to measure the size of this character? Or the number of human lives saved and the measure of happiness that this rescue has accomplished? Or is it the potential of fear and constant exposure to the risk of arrest and the consequence of Mrs. Irene's own death? One with the other was tangled with the walls of the ghetto, pulsed with salvos of street shootings and sounded a silent echo of the recited Torah. Is it good enough? Did we recognize the character's heroism? How much to do by establishing this year do we still have? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u513	Thank you. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! For me personally as a resident of Piotrkow Irena Sendlerov is a unique figure, because as a 7-year-old girl she moved after the death of her doctor's father, together with her mother, to Piotrkow, where Mrs. Sendler's mother's brother, Grzybowski, lived. She spent many years there until graduation. And then together with Sendler, whom she met in Piotrków, she went to Warsaw. She attended a special middle school in Piotrków. Helena Trzcinska and there also attended all scout classes. This spine and this softness toward all men was lifted out of the house, for her father the doctor healed all, not looking at the status of society, neither at origin nor at religion. In 2009, one year after Irena Sendler's death, a commemorative plaque was unveiled, in a special year for Piotrków, because as you know, the first Jewish ghetto was created in October 1939 in Piotrków Trybunalski. I would very much like this Irena Sendler Year in all places that are connected to it, including in my Piotrków, where there are schools, where there are any institutions for them. Irena Sendler was filled with content to actually learn from this message, from this life of hers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that we do not hear such declarations from Members of the PiS that they cooperate with members of the ONR. And I have a question for the rapporteur. Did the government, like Korczakowski's year, which you mentioned to the spokesperson...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u515	Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u516	...will introduce a programme for the promotion of the Irena Sendler Year, as it was in the case of the Korczakowski Year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u517	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u518	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A man is worth as much as he is capable of helping or offering to other people. Irena Sendlerov is a unique figure, which has been highlighted by many of my previous speakers. How we lack such attitudes both here, in Parliament and in our daily lives today. Making such resolutions is a good thing and should be for us, Poles, an example that we should apply. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that in Chrypsk Wielki, where I live, a family of gardeners, Rabbits, organized a tulip feast in Poland on 1 May, christening new families of tulips, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] giving them names of outstanding Poles, Irena Sendlerova, John Paul II, presidents of the Republic of Poland, beginning with Prof. Kaczyński and ending with Bronisław Komorowski. It's a beautiful gesture. [[♪ The bell ♪]] commemorating these characters. 40,000. people listened to what these people had done in their lives. Poles should listen to it, they should use it. I think that if we applied in our parliament, in our daily lives, thesis and attitude of this noble Polish woman...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u519	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u520	...that wouldn't be what's in this parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u521	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u522	I encourage it, and I recommend it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u523	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 Year of Women's Rights (prints Nos 1536 and 1578). I would very much like to ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 May, at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture, we discussed a resolution to establish 2018 as the Year of Women's Rights. It was a very interesting discussion, which was not free from extreme views, which was not deprived of emotion, which led us to wonder what this year 2018 would be, what women's rights would be, whether women's rights were respected today or not. Some people think they are, others think they aren't. I'm a proponent... I am even sure that women's rights in Poland are being violated. In fact, this resolution was explicitly adopted despite these extreme opinions and extreme reflections. I think this is very important from the point of view of social cohesion, which is not in Poland, as we know. For this coherence, the community is struggling with great difficulty. I do not know if there is a chance that we can take these attempts on cohesion, agreement, dialogue, broadly understood, but also deeper understanding. I think a resolution is a step in that direction. I hope that those of you who do not deeply share the view that women's rights are being violated in Poland will have the opportunity to revise their views, and those who think otherwise will have the satisfaction of talking about women's rights. On the occasion of the previous resolution on Iren Sendler, Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska spoke about the fact that we should worship this resolution in practice so that we can meet the hero of this resolution. I have similar needs and dreams that there should also be an important debate in social practice on women's rights, so that this debate should not be an exclusionary debate. I would like women's rights to be taken seriously and responsibly by all parties to the political dispute, especially those who marginalise women's rights. Recently, there was a debate on the pills the day after, there were problems with the abortion bill, there were many, many things that are still not regulated today. We can't avoid them. We need to talk about them. We need to talk about them. This is the moral and political law of our Sejm, political responsibility. Thank you all very much for this discussion during the meeting of the cultural committee. Let me read the draft resolution. The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland dated... 2017 on the establishment of 2018 Year of Women's Rights. On 28 November 1918, Józef Piłsudski, Interim Chief of State, signed a decree on electoral ordination to the Legislative Sejm. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 of this decree states that every citizen of the State without gender difference is an electorate to the Sejm. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 It has been stated that all citizens and citizens of the State with active electoral rights are elected to the Sejm. This decision, confirmed in the March Constitution, was based on the Polish Republican tradition, in which women had legitimate subjectivity. The Reborn Republic has given them full voting rights. On the eve of the century of these events, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, establishing 2018 as the Year of Women's Rights, expresses its recognition to the first parliamentarians: Gabriela Balicka, Jadwid Dziubińska, Iren Kosmowska, Maria Moczydłowska, Zofia Moraczewska, Annie Piasecka, Zofia Sokolnicka and Franciszka Wilczkowakowa and all intercessors of the fight for equality. As a curiosity, I would like to add that for the first time women obtained electoral rights in New Zealand in 1893. They were reduced. In its entirety, the electoral rights were obtained in 1919. In Europe, for the first time in Finland in 1906 Poland, as we know, gave voting rights to women in 1918, France in 1944. There is one very unusual thing, namely in 1971... [[Switzerland.]] Yeah, you're right. ...in Switzerland, women were allowed to go to ballot boxes, but not all. In the canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden, the Swiss obtained their electoral rights only in 1990, in the same year as the women in Bangladesh. I ask you to pass this document because it is extremely important for our public awareness, political awareness, but above all for our Polish-Polish agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u525	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that students and teachers from primary school and middle school in Gromada are listening to our discussions. Welcome. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Joan Lichocka, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Law and Justice supports the resolution on announcing next year as the Year of Women's Rights. The text of the resolution that came out of the committee is pretty good, a little worse with justification. He betrays that the authors or authors of the text do not really know the history and traditions behind the rights of Poles in our country. Parroting in other societies slogans about the fact that gender equality is threatened in Poland, is incompatible with reality, is artificial. The position of Polish women was different for centuries, significantly different. And she's different. You've probably all heard of Emilia Plater, I hope, but hundreds, thousands of others. Probably not. This is Malwin from Otrembian Gastowt from Zielunia, Mazowsze. He's got a gun in this picture. Courier of the National Government, participant of the January Uprising. A shoulder to shoulder with men, with her husband Bronisław Gasztowtte and brother Gracian was famous in many skirmishes. Her husband was killed in the last one, and she was captured by the Cossacks. Convicted of torture, chained to wheelbarrows in a mine somewhere above Baikal, she died of exhaustion. She wasn't 30. This is the dimension of women's rights in Poland: this equality in the fight for Poland and the price paid for it on an equal footing with men. The younger generation Michalina Mościcka also came from Mazovia. She was married to Ignacy Mościcki and was building and smuggling bombs used in the attacks on the Russian authorities. And then in Lviv in 1912 she engaged in actions for equality between men and women, she acted in the Polish Women's League, but also in the Polish Military Organization. She supported legions. Two of her sons went to them, and she took part in the reflection of Lviv from the Ukrainians with her daughter Helena. Before she became the first lady, she tried to introduce to the Sejm a electoral list composed of women themselves in protest against the fact that men played a dominant role in the politics of that time. She didn't make it to the Sejm, she became the first lady, but she was still working for the state. She fought trafficking in women, supported poor children, organized a gigantic relief campaign for those affected by the floods in Małopolska and engaged in the work of the Women's Adoption Organization for the Defence of the Country. This is the dimension that dictates women's rights in Poland. Like Mościcka, Wanda Krahelska was involved in the work of legions, as a 19-year-old girl joining the PPS military organization, as a 20-year-old who dropped bombs from the balcony on the Tsar governor. During World War II, she was a co-creator of the Jewish organization. This is the real dimension that gives an idea of the sources of women's rights in Poland. Her niece was Krystyna Krahelska, a Girl Scout of Grey Privates, who died on the first day of the Warsaw Uprising. You probably know her, all of you, she was a Warsaw Mermaid, and she posed the sculptor for this statue just before the war. That daring girl. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with a sword over his head - it gives an idea of the dimension of women's rights in Poland. And another generation. She's related to Krahelski Olga Johann. I've always...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u527	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u528	...opportunist in the Polish People's Republic. Her life, like other women, is also a dimension of women's rights in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u529	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u530	Law and Justice supports the resolution because it is a tribute to the Poles I told you about. As thousands of others have witnessed, the Year of Women's Rights is a tribute to them. [[Applause]] [[Oh, those women of ours.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u531	Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u532	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is actually quite a breakthrough moment, at least from my perspective and from my experience, because if we agree on 2018 as the Year of Women's Rights, I will say that there has been a small revolution here. This is indeed a very important resolution and this is probably a very important and necessary patronage. However, if you allow me, on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, to support this resolution, I will, of course, allow myself to disagree in part with the point of view presented by Mrs Lichocka of Law and Justice. That's all she said was absolutely sacred truth. Historically, we had great women. As I have checked here, when Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska was the government's proxy for equal treatment, she published such a book, "Women unforgettable," and she was just saying... Mrs Lichock, as a journalist, also presented a figure at the time, so it was all, as was the decree of Józef Piłsudski and the electoral rights of women established in 1918. But I think history is a little short. This is not just a historic resolution and a year that refers only to history, a year that refers only to the century of independence. It's very good to say, background. It's great that we can remind you of that, but there's more to it because we need to look at what's here and now. In this Year of Women's Rights, you have to talk about how it is here and now. And to tell you the truth, we talked about it, we argued with each other during the committee meeting. But I would like to say that the fact that the state, by its own majority, has thrown away the conclusion of this resolution, in a little bit of a bad light, puts these intentions of enjoying that we will have the Year of Women's Rights. Because this ending in the original, according to the applicants, was: the Sejm, establishing this year as the Year of Women's Rights, pays respect to the first parliamentarians - here eight names - and all advocates of equality. You put a dot on it. And then there was this: it confirms the inalienability of the full exercise of all civil, political, freedom of choice, self-determination of women. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and men, and also declare that he will do his utmost to ensure that any inequality and injustices cease to exist.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u533	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u534	And that was a true resolution, Mrs Bauer. I believe in Polish women and in the fact that this year they will spend as we say here at the conclusion of this resolution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u535	Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, in the discussion on this resolution we talked about Poles who fought, we talked about Polish parliamentarians. I am glad that as a Polish parliamentarian I can stand here today on this platform and actually represent Poles, especially Poles, but we should also remember that women's efforts, the struggle for women's rights are not only those struggles in uprisings, but it is primarily the struggle for the survival of the Polish people, it is all the mothers who have been carrying all these hardships on their shoulders for many centuries, when men were often lacking. All this work, all this organic work, is the work of women who can't say it out loud today, the work of women who are so hard today and who need to be told. Recently, I was at the opening of a daily home of self-help and there a lady who had a disabled child said that she was very happy about opening this house because for the first time in 30 years she could leave the house. This is above all the work of women, which we should stress this important year, the work of mothers. I'm also standing here today because of my mom's hard work, working for a large family. This is the job we should be fighting for, this is the dignity we should be fighting for, which we often forget, because many women can't go screaming and fighting for their rights, because they're at home with their children, taking care of them, working very hard. First of all, this community of women, which we should often talk about, should also look after those women who do not have the opportunity to actually go and say something out loud. They are often excluded from public debate because they have a different opinion, e.g. on the protection of the conceived life. As a woman, we should support on the one hand all the voices of all women who put a great deal of effort into the future of this nation, as should those women who put their efforts into the past of this nation, not only with a gun in their hands, but above all in this hardest work that we can't see every day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u537	Thank you very much. The voice of Mrs Monica Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2018 will be a unique year, because we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining Poland's independence, but also because it is the 100th anniversary of granting Polish citizens voting rights. Therefore, I am very pleased that such great support has been obtained by a resolution establishing the year 2018 as the Year of Women's Rights. Recalling the first Polish messengers, we remember all the women who fought, who worked, who also worked hard today. They are often such quiet heroes of the day. Let the 100th anniversary of the granting of electoral rights to Poles also be an opportunity to reflect and to act on the rights of contemporary women, the rights of women today, the perception of the situation of women in families, workplaces, social, public life and politics. When we mention the first messengers, we think primarily of modern women. I hope that together, together, we will do everything we can to eliminate and punish domestic violence, unequal treatment or mobbing motivated by gender differences. Women in Poland cannot hear that rape is their fault because they are dressed badly. Women cannot hear that if violence is used by their husband or father, there is no problem because there is more in the family. Women never want to hear again that they have to keep quiet and listen because they're just women. You can't tell a woman what she's allowed and what she's not, what's moral and what's not. Women want equal pay for equal work and equal position in the family and in social and political life, because we, women, are wise, responsible and aware. And we can run our lives the way we want to. It can't be a privilege, it can't be just a year, it has to be a standard. I would very much like us to finally throw this constant struggle for women's rights in the trash can of history so that our rights are not broken so that they are not subject to ridicule or ridicule. That's why we can't, but we should establish 2018 as the Year of Women's Rights. Not only for us, but also for our children: daughters, grandchildren. Today there are 125 messengers in the Seym, 13 women in the Senate. The fact that we are here, that we are co-deciding on the fate of Poland and Poles, is also due to events from 100 years ago. That is why I am very happy and I hope that 2018 will be the Year of Women's Rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u539	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u540	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Next year, 100 years have passed since Poland, as one of the first European countries and in the world, granted women voting rights. At that time, the gender equality process, the social change process, the legal change process began so formally. It is worth noting that over the past few years, this process has accelerated and there has been a lot of good things about women's rights: changes to the Labour Code in 2001 and 2004 or a change to the electoral order which introduced the quota system for placing women on electoral lists. I believe that it is also important to recall the changes that took place during the time when the Minister of Labour and Family Policy was Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. He introduced a 12-month maternity leave, the longest in Europe. The so-called "introduction" has been introduced. moustache, or 1000 PLN per child in case the mother is an uninsured person or an agricultural woman. Lower taxes have been introduced for families, paying contributions from the state budget during parental leave. I realize there's still a lot to do. We have heard today that too many women are still violent. There are still too few women in public life, and the introduction of quotas in other areas of public life is essential and necessary. Women still make way less money than men. You have to fight these stereotypes, but it's a constant fight, and it's, like I said, a process that started 100 years ago. However, I have a certain inner conviction, which not only I represent, but many women represent it. Women from different organizations turn to me, saying that they have the impression that this process has been stopped in the last few months. I will say even more: many actions or initiatives, to be very gentle, were simply anti-women. Today, when we speak in the spirit of such an agreement when adopting this resolution, I would not want to go into detail, but we know very well what the black protest is and what the women involved had. Therefore, the Polish People's Party strongly supports the resolution, which is intended to contribute to the discussion, to the discourse on women's rights and how the family should and can be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u541	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Kaminski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We, in this term of office of the Sejm quite often - I think that most often, if we consider all terms so far in free Poland - we deal with resolutions on various issues. I don't mean to be ironic about this, but every week, I apologize, at almost every session of the Sejm, we commemorate an anniversary or someone, and most of the time, it's a good person and a good anniversary. Very often, the Members of the opposition vote in favour of these resolutions, and mostly the Members of the Law and Justice are the authors of these resolutions. I have the impression that this draft resolution, which has been proposed by modern Members, is so uncontroversial that it should also be supported by everyone in this Chamber, because we have the right to be proud that the Second Republic was one of the first countries in Europe to give women political rights. We are proud that we are a country in which, already as a free Poland, three times the head of the government was a woman, including the current office. Very good. On the other hand, we cannot quite abstract ourselves from the fact that we are having a debate today under very specific conditions. It takes place in a situation in which from this stand Polish women hear that contraception is, I quote: a crime in which they hear from the government announcements of withdrawing from the anti-violence convention, although, Dalgodah, it is difficult to find any ideal basis here, regardless of whether someone is a believer, unbeliever, leftist or right-wing. Why should anyone view family violence as something that should not be condemned and that should not be combated? It doesn't have ideological colors. It's just a bad thing to fight. The previous government, Prime Minister Kopacz's government, has adopted this anti-violence convention. I don't know why you guys are keying this case, and some of your high representatives are saying you want out of it. When in vitro funding is finally to be, too late, adopted in Warsaw, we have the voice of the Episcopate, which in an unprecedented way once again tries to interfere in the secular state and talks about the fact that in vitro, which gives people the chance to experience the joy of parenting, is something wrong. Finally, we have situations such as the one that met Mrs Modern, when the people who prayed in their hearts threatened to beat her during the trial with prayer, the situation in which, together with the former, praise God, the priest, they said that she had to be shaved and once with a sledgehammer a red rabble. I wonder why in Poland people who have eagles on their hearts and crosses on their breasts often speak the language of hatred, language of aggression, but also language of hatred and aggression towards women. That is why we will support this resolution, because it is necessary, because women's rights are needed, because human rights are needed, because freedom is needed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u543	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 Year of Women's Rights. The purpose of the resolution discussed today is to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the provisional decree of the State Chief of State on electoral ordination to the Legislative Sejm. Thanks to this decree, women obtained electoral rights on an equal footing with men, were able to vote and stand as candidates in parliamentary elections. Thanks to this resolution we can also express our appreciation for the first parliamentarians: Gabriela Balicka, Jadwiga Dziubińska, Irena Kosmowska, Maria Moczydłowska, Zofia Moraczewska, Anna Piasecka, Zofia Sokolnicka and Franciszko Wilczkowakowa. I have no doubt that this one-man decision by Marshal Józef Piłsudski is a decision requiring proper commemoration. By placing Poland at the forefront of the first countries that have aligned the political rights of men and women, this decision has become the cornerstone of the further struggle for equality and the basis for the creation of today's democracy and the reality surrounding us. There's been a lot of talk about women's rights lately, about their alleged violations and failure to respect them by power. The total opposition likes to act as representative of the women's part of society, often generalizing its views. As a woman, all women's affairs, especially their rights, are extremely close to me and I will always stand by them. However, I would ask that this resolution should not become an excuse today for another fight or political dispute. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This would be contrary to the true message of her message - a celebration of the historic moment when women gained the right to vote. Surely we all agree on the noble purpose of this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u545	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u546	About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u547	Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has a voice. There's no envoy. Mrs Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u548	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In the face of the resolution I have my doubts personally, because the draft resolution was submitted by the Modern, [[Joy in the Chamber]] co-organizer of black marches and umbrellas, on which slogans were erected in defence of women's rights: My uterus, my business. Get away from my belly. My stomach, my business. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] In an amazing way, you have been able to challenge women's rights with human rights. It is hard to believe the sincere intentions of applicants who, in the name of alleged women's rights, are against the fundamental human right - the right to life. There's no point or logic in this argument. Therefore, it is not known what can be expected from the notified project. So I ask: How would the Year of Women's Rights be celebrated in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And is the nature of such events as the black protest in line with the mission of celebrating 2018 as the Year of Women's Rights? Thank you very much. [[We'd better just take away our rights. It'll be over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u549	Thank you very much. I would like the floor of Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u550	2018 Year of Women's Rights - it's a good idea for at least two reasons. The first reason is quite obvious - we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of granting voting rights to Poles. The second reason a little less obvious, but for me personally very important, and I believe that for a wide range of women also. First of all, women will have a very deep hope that it will be a year of reflection for the governing party. First of all, we will hope that the ruling party will finally take seriously e.g. the problem of infertility in Poland and will finally consider that funding for in vitro treatments should be restored. Another thing. We will have a deep hope that the ruling party will finally consider that the restoration of the standards of perinatal Poles is absolutely inalienable. This is an absolute and inalienable law in our country, not just a recommendation. Come on. We will firmly believe that 2018 will be the year when the Polish people will go out on the streets to manifest out of joy, not out of anger or powerlessness. Another thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will hope that the ruling party will decide that withdrawing ellaOne from circulation without a prescription is a mistake, because in 2017, in a moment, you will serve a ban on the sale of this tablet, and this is just an emergency contraceptive pill... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u551	Thank you, Member. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u552	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, I don't see much men here. I don't know if I can carry that weight. Year of women - 2018. Great, I'm really happy about this decision. The role and place of a woman in our contemporary life, here in Poland. Mom, the most beautiful word in the world. Home. When we feel bad and uncomfortable, we say we go home. This atmosphere and climate are created by both of you, but you, ladies, women know in this decisive primacy. I think every man knows that. A man should be a partner, a colleague, a husband, a friend, someone to whom every woman will always be happy to go, waiting for all the good advice, love and tenderness. I wish you ladies, I wish that in the majority of these climates there will be all kinds of conferences this year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think this note, this tone, not another one will win, we'll be smarter, better to each other...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u553	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u554	...and we will win with this resolution, introducing such climates. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u555	Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was hoping, however, that this year of women and such permissive speeches in this Chamber would prevent us from getting into a fight, as it was 10 years ago, when we celebrated the 90th anniversary of women's election rights, active and passive, and the 90th anniversary of women's presence here. This together, over the divisions, we read here the speeches of those Poles from 90 years ago, and the thing that Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska mentioned, something that is already a white raven, cannot be bought anywhere. And you can't get it. This is a book in which journalists above divisions, various - and Paradowska, and Lichocka, and Kolenda-Zaleska, and Grysiak, and Jolanta Pieńkowska, and Eliza Michalik, and Mrs Pietrowa-Wasilewicz - regardless of opinions, all, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Everyone had a hero. I hope this next year as a year of women will unite us as ten years ago. Perhaps a new book about unforgettable women, which was written in the history of Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u557	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u558	Maybe we can achieve that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u559	Please, Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u560	Mr. Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear fellow Members, I wanted to reprimand the left side of the room and remind you that, after regaining independence, all political groups: folks, Chadecs, endecs, all, in consensus, voted in favour of women's rights, for these rights to be aligned with men's rights. There were no divisions. We Poles, after regaining independence, all groups, voted in favour of women's rights. It wasn't the property of the left. I also wanted to ask those people who emphasized that today it is so bad for women in Poland, whether they know the latest Eurostat surveys, which say that in Poland women earn 6.4% less than men, in Germany - 22,4% and the European average is 16.4. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's 6% making too much money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u561	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like to ask the applicant's representative, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. Madam, if I may make a delicate suggestion: we have an hour of delay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u562	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I am very pleased to say from this place that this resolution has received your support, that it has succeeded here for the first time, I do not know, to work out something that allows everyone to talk about women's rights. Because women's rights are inalienable and cannot be confined solely to procreational matters. I would like to briefly talk about rights such as the right to my own life choices, without stigmatizing like in a campaign from months ago in which a woman says: I made a career, I visited the world, but I didn't start a family, I didn't have children, so I lost my life. Can anyone imagine a spot like that involving a man? We want to stop these stereotypes. On the one hand, women who have decided to work at home are depreciated to take care of their family, for example, by identifying the family. But it's not our agreement to say that women who don't have a husband or children are flawed. Even if a woman successfully combines her work with a successful family life, she often tries to make her feel guilty about her career at the expense of her family. There is no good or bad way of life. It is important that this is a conscious choice, with full knowledge of the consequences. We believe that active women should be supported because we want an equal professional start, a greater presence of women on company boards, in companies. We want the same pay for the work done, the reduction and, ultimately, the elimination of the pay gap - in some cases at present it is up to a dozen percent - to increase the representation of women in different levels of government. We promote support for combining work with raising children, facilitating the return to work after the birth of the child. It is about flexible working time, part-time employment, child care facilities, universal access to crèches, kindergartens, good education, spreading equal, partnerly sharing of family responsibilities between mom and dad, parental leave, sick leave - it is all supposed to be on an equal footing. It is about introducing training and mentoring programmes for women in business, which also conduct individual economic activities, but also strengthening women's self-esteem. All research shows that greater involvement of women in the economy is GDP growth, it is better functioning of companies and greater profits. I think women have a right to a safe life. There can't be violence against women. It's still an unsolved problem. It is appalling to allow physical violence, such as by public statements that trivialize or even joke about it, by not implementing the Convention on the Prevention of Violence. Violence also has other faces. There is violence of the nature of mental violence, economic violence. There's room for us to be able to counteract such harmful effects. The right to financial security, support for women in difficulty, single mothers, mothers taking care of disabled children. The problem of child support collection and the operation of the maintenance fund. The right to active living during senior years is primarily a decent pension, first and foremost an adequate medical care and access to this medical care. Support for activity, science, culture, healthy life of seniors. It is also education, smart education, where equality attitudes are promoted at school, neither boys nor girls are discriminated against. The promotion of the value of partnership, not the pattern in which a girl is to be submissive, is to be involved in raising children in the future, washing, cleaning, cooking, and the boy is only to make money. Here is also the issue of sexual and reproductive rights. I propose that instead of abortion, we talk about smart sexual education, about increasing the availability of contraceptives, about patterns that convince young people...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u563	Member, please, if you could just finish slowly...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u564	...so they don't start their sex life too quickly, because other values are more important. Let's take care of life born. Let us help mothers who have a severe financial or personal situation. Let us create conditions for them to feel safe, including in material terms. It is very important to support families with a disabled or sick child. Opponents of abortion say: also a person with developmental defects deserves to live, but after having a child who requires a special, often expensive, care, family has to cope alone. Where are you? We should all be ashamed of the charity they call the benefit they're receiving right now. And it's not only about money, it's also about daily helping in life, taking care of the baby, mental support, and it's not just for this child, but it's often for the whole family. These are the real problems of a thousand families, mothers and children. Announcement of 2018 The Year of Women's Rights will provide an opportunity for a wide public debate on the above topics. I am convinced that this will inspire many environments, a series of activities promoting and highlighting the role of women in contemporary Poland. It will also be an opportunity to remind outstanding Poles, the first parliamentarians. Thanks to them, my dear fellow Members, we are in this courtroom today. With a resolution of a year of women, we can confirm that their work made great sense, and the consecration of the idea of equality, the vision of a just Republic for everyone has born Poland in which we want to live. I hope, however, that we will not go out of the way of equal rights for all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for taking such a favourable approach to this resolution. In this debate, I would also like to thank all women from parliamentary clubs, from different women's backgrounds, associations that work for women who strengthen the role of women who help women to be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u565	Madame, I really...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u566	...on election lists in a certain number.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u567	We had an agreement, Member, differently. [[But he's got all the time he needs.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u568	On this occasion I would also like to thank all great-grandmothers, grandmothers, moms, but also give good models to daughters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u569	In theory, I may have prevented you from... [[No, Mr. Marshal, practically.]] Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski. Mr President, I would very much like to ask for a possible time limit. We're very late. Now, before you start, because that's where the ladies from the Civic Platform are rebelling... I'd really ask you not to teach me the rules, okay? [[Why? We have the same right.]] You're welcome, sir. [[It's our will that you're here.]] [[We ask you to obey him.]] I'm following him. [[No, you don't.]] Please read the regulations. I suspect you're not your first term, you have a duty to know the rules. You're welcome, sir. [[I'm not afraid of you, Marshal, just to be clear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u570	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you can see, emotions are big and I'm not surprised at all because we're still fighting for women's rights. Thank you very much, Mrs Sobecka, for this radical tone. Thank you very much, because this radicalism means that we should continue to think and fight for your rights as well. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Women's rights are our political conscience, contemporary, modern, every Poland. I'll complete the list of names, and many women have been listed here. As a man of culture, I cannot give up and remind you that Maria Curie-Skłodowska, Maria Konopnicka, Gabriela Zapolska, Eliza Orzeszkowa or the painter Olga Boznańska worked for what Poland is today, and finally for our freedom Maria Curie-Skłodowska, Maria Konopnicka, Gabriela Zapolska, Eliza Orzeszkowa or the painter Olga Boznańska worked for. In a very sharp spirit, but yet dialogue, I urge you to defend women's rights. I'm asking you to take this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u571	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the start of the construction of the Central Industrial District (prints No.154 and 1554). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u572	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the start of the construction of the Central Industrial District, print No.154. The above draft resolution was tabled by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, with the great commitment of Mr Rafał Weber from Stalowa Wola. The rapid and efficient construction of the Central Industrial District is a major economic and civilizational leap of the south-central part of Poland, and thus of the Second Republic of Poland. You can give an example of 300 km of the Gorlice - Jasło - Krosno - Ostrowiec pipeline. It is also worth mentioning that next to Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski, one of the people who deserved the COP idea, as well as for the construction of the port in Gdynia, was General Kazimierz Sosnkowski, about whom the historian wrote: He laid the foundations for the Polish military industry and carried out the initial phase of the construction of the later Central Industrial District. The Central Industrial District, this great achievement of independent Poland, deserves to be reminded by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, even if we hear it, because we have already heard such absurd sentences here, e.g. that the COP builders were inconclusive because they fought as legionaries of Piłsudski and then soldiers of the Polish Army with Moskals, who did not occupy Poland, but so friendlyly defended rights and freedoms. The draft resolution was discussed at the meeting of the cultural committee on 24 May this year. and, following the introduction of quite numerous but very minor amendments, received a unanimous positive opinion. I present the draft resolution. The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the beginning of the construction of the Central Industrial District. 80 years ago the construction of the Central Industrial District and its flagship investment - Stalowa Wola began. The result of this effort was the creation of 110 000 jobs in 51 new industrial plants, built in civilised areas that were so far backwards in 2.5 years. The initiator of the investment was Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Treasury Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski, who in the 20s gave Poland a window to the world in the form of a port in Gdynia, and already in the next decade, after years of the global crisis, outlined and implemented a plan to industrialize central Poland, ensuring a balance between arms investments, civil investments and infrastructure according to the motto: COP is not only military weapons, but also economic weapons of Poland. The symbol and essence of these achievements is the construction of modern Southern Works and the city of Stalowa Wola. Within 26 months and 26 days in the sandy pine forest, the area crossed by the San River, the national road and the railway line was built a quality steel factory and a cannon factory and a town settlement for 4,000 inhabitants equipped with modern, comfortable apartments, shops, schools and sports facilities. Such a pace of work, combined with perfect organization of works, high quality of execution, application of modern technologies and cost-effectiveness in implementation, was characteristic for all investments of the Central Industrial District. Those successes were the basis for their success. not only the high professionality of industrial personnel, but also its rooting in values such as honesty, responsibility, concern for common good and patriotism manifested in pride in the work done for the independent - after so long slavery - the Homeland. It is worth remembering that in the résumés of both Deputy Prime Minister Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski and many COP employees, boastful cards were fighting in the Legions for independence and in the war with the Soviets - for its defence. In the Second Republic of Poland, soldiers became darts organizers, precise engineers, inventors, dedicated teachers, solid merchants and reliable officials. On the 80th anniversary of the beginning of the construction of the Central Industrial District of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses appreciation and respect for our ancestors, who in difficult and uncertain times of the 20th interwar anniversary and during the first years of independence of Poland pursued its economic development. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I recommend that the High Sejm adopt a resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the start of the construction of the Central Industrial District. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u573	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u574	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the draft resolution commemorating the 80th anniversary of the start of the construction of the Central Industrial District. The Law and Justice Club is an applicant for this project, so of course it is very positive towards it. We believe that it is our duty to commemorate the start of the construction of the Central Industrial District as a plan to build a fully independent and independent state based on Polish technical thought. COP is the largest economic and economic investment of the Second Republic of Poland and one of the most important in the 1050-year history of Poland. The construction of COP was initiated by Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs and Minister of the Treasury Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski. Originally, the COP construction plan was to be implemented throughout Poland, but due to the limited measure it was decided to modify and concentrate investments in the south-central parts of the country, in the so-called. A safety triangle. The aim was to make a significant part of the investment beyond the reach of German and Soviet aviation. The Vistula and Sanu basin, protected from the south by the Carpathian chain, was considered the best place. With its scope COP covered areas of Podkarpackie, Świętokrzyskie, Małopolskie and partly Mazowieckie voivodships. In total, this area covered 60 000. km2 and it had 5600 thousand inhabitants. more than 100,000 people were created as part of the Central Industrial District plan. jobs, of which as much as 90 000. in industry. When replacing COP's investments, it is important to mention Dębica, where a rubber factory and a tyre factory were built, about Mielec and State Aviation Works, in Nowa Dębie a ammunition factory was established, in Rzeszów - a factory of aircraft machine tools and engines, in Tarnobrzeg - metalworking plants, in Nowa Sarzyn - chemical plants, in Lublin - a factory of trucks, in Radom and Starachowice - a factory of weapons, in Pionki - a gunpowder factory. The flagship investment was the Southern Plant producing weapons equipment and the city of Stalowa Wola built by them. The plants and the city were built within 26 months and 26 days, thus showing the pace of work and consistency in the construction of the Central Industrial District. Besides, on the day of their opening, General Kasprzycki said that it was the steel will of the Polish people to become modern. Hence the name of the city itself. COP's plan deserves a unique memory, because it was based on great patriotism and love for Poland. Deputy Prime Minister Kwiatkowski himself fought in the First World War in the Polish Legions, just as many of those who created production plants after 1937 and then worked in them. I dare say that if it weren't for heartfelt patriotism and sincere and selfless love for the country, [[♪ The bell ♪]] COP's plan wouldn't have worked. In my opinion, the Government of Law and Justice, in implementing the strategy of responsible development, refers precisely to the idea of COP. We want to strengthen the Polish industry...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u575	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u576	...Polish state-owned companies, creating a good climate for private enterprises. I'd love to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Law and Justice will vote in favour of the resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u577	Mr President, I am very sorry, we are very late, please watch your time. Ms Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u578	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club supports the resolution on celebrating the 80th anniversary of the start of the construction of the Central Industrial District. Resolutions of the Sejm of the Republic commemorating events from the history of our homeland and the memory of well-deserved fellow citizens are important for society and for the Sejm itself. In society, they build up knowledge of what was important in the past and also play a role today. Resolutions shape the community and its identity and emphasize the sustainability of the values. It is therefore important that the resolutions concern really important matters and speak about them in accordance with the facts and judge them fairly. From this point of view, the initiative to celebrate the anniversary of the start of the construction of the Central Industrial District is right. However, in support of it in principle, we should pay attention to certain aspects of the content of Sejm print No.340. Firstly, the draft resolution presents the Central Industrial District from the perspective of Stalowa Wola and its Southern Works and, quote, the pine forest cut by the San River, the national road and the railway line. Yeah, that's important, too. However, there are dozens of other cities as well as investments in COP. That's, among other things. Radom, Opoczno, Pawns, Horses, Skarżysko, Suchedniów, Starachowice, Ostrowiec, Puławy, Kraśnik, Lublin, Rejowiec... [[It's a mincemeat.]] ... Mielec, Chechów, Pork, Tresna. The Central Industrial District was created in the area of 60 thousand. km from 6 million inhabitants, to 1/6 of the then Polish state. Secondly, honoring the anniversary of the Central Industrial District involves expressing respect for the authors of its concept. The figure of Deputy Prime Minister Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski is a symbol nowadays. Appreciating the leadership - politically and organisationally - and the symbolic role of Deputy Prime Minister Kwiatkowski, let us remind you that he did not act alone. The construction of the Central Industrial District was a great effort of thousands of people, both his close collaborators and material creators of concepts, brothers Władysław and Paweł Kozieradzki, government officials and hundreds of engineers and technicians implementing the idea into life. Thirdly, the construction of the Central Industrial District was carried out only in part. There was a war in the way. Some investments have never been created, others - like dams and power plants in Salt and Czorstyn - were built after many decades. Far-reaching social objectives have not been achieved. This does not diminish our respect for wise government programs and their creators and performers. And finally, what's important to me [[♪ The bell ♪]] As messengers of Radom land, the influence of the Central Industrial District on Radom or Pionka was completely overlooked. A state weapons factory and a state gunpowder factory...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u579	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u580	...with all the infrastructure, housing...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u581	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u582	I can't believe that... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...forget about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u583	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u584	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, in the interwar period we had an elite, we had engineers, planners, professors who really recognized the needs of the Polish nation. After 123 years of Poland, which was in three separate organisms, our elites, healthy elites, Polish elites were able to combine in a large project of industrialization of Poland. It was necessary to build Gdynia, we did it. Already in 1920, here at this point, Members decided to build a port in Gdynia. Already three years after this resolution was passed, the first Kentucky ship had entered Gdynia. During that time, we connected Upper Silesia by rail to the port. There's a need to build an industrial district. Thanks to the very good urban plans Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski and the whole team located the Central Industrial District in Stalowa Wola. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! What is the impressive result if in these 2 years 100,000. Poles found work in this district, in modern workplaces, without subsidies, without foreign advisors, our technical thought, our engineers, our technologies. We were able to create 51 workplaces. High Izbo! This thinking should also accompany us today - it is thinking about the reindustrialization of Poland. In 1947, two further industrial districts were planned in the study of development of the country, one in Wałcz, just between Gdansk, Szczecin and Poznań, and the other in Ostrołęka, between Warsaw, Białystok and Olsztyn. It is this thinking, thinking about connecting regions, about new technologies, about the development of the whole country, that was thinking about elites, people who co-created our country at the time. Also today we should think about these directions, look for such professors, look for people as big a format as Mr. Kwiatkowski. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u585	Please, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u586	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Central Industrial District was one of the biggest economic projects of the Second Republic of Poland. It has included 44 counties inhabited by over 6 million people. It was a very good strategic plan. The aim was to expand the heavy and armed industries and reduce unemployment caused by the major crisis. 2.4 billion zlotys were spent, 100,000 were employed. People. The Central Industrial District was located in the so-called. a safety triangle outside the reach of German and Soviet aviation. The most modern technologies have been reached, both in the chemical, armament and energy industries. Energy for the Central Industrial District was to be supplied by water power plants, i.e. renewable sources of energy, and heat. It had 30 water power plants and retention tanks. Until 1939 several of them were built, among others. In Salt and Spawn. Most of them serve us today and will probably serve longer. Many of these investments have been completed for decades, indicating that this plan was indeed far-reaching and really strategic. What conclusions do we draw from this plan? It is this far-reaching and strategic character that should be highlighted. State investment dominated, although private capital was also attracted, this is rarely said about, a 10-year exemption from turnover tax and local taxes has been adopted. Today we also need this kind of far-reaching and strategic plan. In this plan we should be based primarily on private Polish companies, which will be efficient, modern and very innovative, and not exclusively on state investments. In the field of energy infrastructure, the proposed installations should anticipate, as in the Second Republic of Poland, the development of modern, renewable energy sources, the most efficient, such as: offshore wind farms. We don't want electric cars for coal. This direction can become, as in the past, water power plants in the case of the Central Industrial District, a Polish specialty for decades. In the Second Polish Republic, national potential was sought. That must be the case now, too. Let's reach for the potential of power plants on the Polish Coast. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u587	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Rafał Weber's applicants with a polite request for succinctness.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u588	Thank you, Marshal. Literally a minute to the question of the Member of the Civic Platform, why only Stalowa Wola was included in the draft resolution - because Stalowa Wola is probably the only city that was built within the Central Industrial District from scratch. Until 1937, there was nothing but pine forests in the place where the city and Huta Stalowa Wola are present. I talked about other cities and other investments at first reading. It is a pity that at the time there was not a single parliamentarians from the Civic Platform at the committee meeting, then they had a chance to make amendments. Some of them were brought by Mrs Kukiz15, and unfortunately not by the Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u589	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u590	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! 80 years ago, COP started construction. Within 2.5 years, 51 new industrial plants were built and 110 thousand were built. jobs. The symbol of these achievements is the Stalowa Wola mentioned in this resolution as the only industrial centre. At this point, it is worth asking ourselves whether such a restriction is justified. From a legislative point of view, of course, yes, because mentioning all the cities that have benefited from the COP programme would make the resolution extremely long. It is worth mentioning, however, that these positive changes have also taken place in many cities of today's Świętokrzyskie, Lubelskie, Mazowieckie, Podkarpackie and Małopolskie voivodship, including Dębica, Mielec, Rzeszów, Lublin, Pionki, Kraśnik, Starachowice, Skarżysko-Kamienna or my family Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski. They say faith works miracles. COP's creators led by Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski believed that Poland could be made a modern and economically strong country. With this resolution we will pay their due homage.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u591	On behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the start of the construction of the Central Industrial District. The result of this effort was the creation of 110 thousand. jobs in 51 new industrial plants, built in civilised areas so far backward. The initiator of the construction of the Central Industrial District was Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski, who created the port in Gdynia, and already in the next decade, after years of global crisis, outlined and implemented a plan to industrialise Central Poland. The aim of this process was to build modern Southern Works and the city of Stalowa Wola from scratch. Within 26 months and 26 days, a quality steelworks and a cannon factory and a town settlement for 4,000 were established. residents, equipped with modern, comfortable apartments, shops, schools and sports facilities. The basis for these successes is not only the industrial staff, but also its roots in values such as honesty, responsibility, concern for common good and patriotism, which are proud of the work done for the independent - after so long slavery - the homeland. Nowadays, it is difficult for the PiS to comply with the basic document, which is the constitution. Of course, we realise that the Constitution is of no value to PiS politicians. PiS wants to own history and constitution; he wants to rewrite history according to his own priorities, just as the communists did in the 1950s; he also wants to write his own constitution - a model of this Polish People's Republic, without a threefold division of power - with the primacy of a party ruling over all public institutions in Poland. It is worth remembering that both Deputy Prime Minister Kwiatkowski and many COP employees had in their CV cards written in the fight in the Legions for regaining independence and in the war with the Soviets for defending it. In the Second Republic of Poland, soldiers became darts organizers, precise engineers, inventors, dedicated teachers, solid merchants and reliable officials.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u592	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the Legal Protection of Plant Varietyes (Prints No 1593 and 1612). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u593	Dear Marshal, Since you're asking it to be quick, it's on the committee on June 7th... The Commission asks the Sejm to accept the two amendments tabled by the Senate. And on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, so as not to enter again, the Law and Justice Club supports both amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u594	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Kucharski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I will present my position on the amendments of the Senate to the Law amending the Law on the Legal Protection of Varieties of Plants. The bill proposed by the government, as well as the Senate's amendments, are sobering up the problems raised by farmers and farmers, proposing temporary and non-complementary solutions. The proposed change in the abolition of own reproduction charges only brings temporary and apparent benefits without addressing significant problems. This change may lead to a transfer of costs by producers and an increase in the prices of certified seed, which may have a negative impact on an already small, 18% exchange. Biological progress, the emergence of new varieties is the most effective way to increase yield. This law should stimulate and encourage farmers, it is in the interests not only of farmers themselves, but also in the interests of farmers and our country, so that as many farmers as possible decide to exchange new, more efficient varieties and make them. The universality of the exchange gives the benefits of low amounts for certified seed and, consequently, new varieties and their high efficiency. The environment was waiting for changes to create strong, competitive agriculture with innovative Polish breeding. I regret to note that the proposed amendments to the Senate's resolution, as well as the government's draft law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties, do not introduce environmental changes in key problems. The haste in the process of the bill, as well as the lack of possibility of a longer debate on its shape, make solutions temporary and non-complementary, which inhibit the development and competitiveness of Polish breeding and agriculture. The Civic Platform Club will abstain. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u596	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u597	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Legal Protection of Varieties of Plants. I would like to remind you that Kukiz club 15 two weeks ago voted against the bill and today we are also in the position that this law will bring more damage to Polish agriculture than benefits. The basic flaw in the bill lies in misdiagnosing the problem we are dealing with. The problem is above all the low level of seed exchange. In Poland it amounts to around 18% While in other Western European countries it is often more than 80%. However, the role played by livestock progress in agriculture is invaluable. It translates into improving and stable yields, increasing resistance to diseases and, consequently, farmers' income. If the ministry misdiagnosed the problem, it can't be solved properly. The Ministry of Agriculture has proposed only a partial solution, which eliminates one problem, but on the other it poses a huge threat to the entire Polish seed industry, and above all puts into question the development and future of our agriculture. We should strive for the universal exchange of seed, and the effect of the scale of the levy will make it much lower. The mechanism contained in the Act will in no way contribute to this objective, namely universality. The success of the bill that the Ministry expects is illusory and short-lived. In the long term, it is a huge danger to farmers, the seed industry, plant production and, consequently, the food safety of our country. The proposed solutions will result in a regression in the progress of breeding, which in the near future will be felt economically by Polish farmers. Once again, I would like to appeal to your Members for a moment of reflection and vote on the amendments of the Senate in line with their own conviction and not under party dictation. As a representative of the Kukiz club15, I would like to assure you that we will not contribute to the destruction of the Polish village, our agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u598	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u599	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Senate has proposed two amendments: the first is specific and concerns the collection of seed fees, the second refers to the refusal of information on the use of seed. The Senate has proposed a revision of the article. 25, which is a general provision for Article. 23a. Art. 25 instructs the breeder to provide information on the quantity of seed on request. The Senate amendments do not make any significant changes that would cover the problems previously discussed in the debate on this project. The amendments to the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties should aim at bringing them into line with the interests of breeders and farmers. The improvement of this system can bring really great benefits. The primary objective should be to make seed cheaper and more often replaced, and one will result from another. At this point in time, it appears that on 25 November 2015, when the National Council of Agricultural Chambers requested the Seed Agency in Leszno to waive the levy on farmers for the use of seeding material from their own collection, the agency replied that breeding companies could not waive the basic source of funding for breeding, such as licence fees and exclusive rights for the use of varieties under the agricultural derogation. The essence of the development of breeding is the cultivation of varieties with high health and performance qualities, resistant to dangerous pathogens and pests. Such varieties may be grown with limited use of pesticides. The cultivation of such varieties prevents excessive degradation of the environment and reduces production costs, which is equivalent to increasing competitiveness. In Poland the development of both breeding and agriculture inhibits the small exchange of certified seed. In this respect, we are in the last place in Europe and this is not without an impact on the quality of Polish production. At the moment, farmers must inform the seed agency of sowing and be subject to control and, in the event of failure to comply with these obligations, their cases shall be brought before the courts. In this context, it may be worth considering the Scandinavian model that was discussed in the agriculture committee when discussing the project. It is based on the fact that breeders' or breeders' organisations are informed that the farmer has used material for reproduction. The information is handled by an agency similar to the Polish Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which collects information for the purposes of a single area payment and on this basis issues invoices. This avoids extensive bureaucracy related to requests for information, checks, judicial matters, and also reduces fees when this model is universal. This is a solution that the Ministry should take into account. Because earlier because of what I was talking about, we didn't support this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] we are also in favour of rejecting the Senate's amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u600	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party. There's no envoy. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u601	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the amendments of the Senate to the Law amending the Law on the Legal Protection of Plant Varieties. The purpose of the project was to regulate the fees for the use of seed. It has been increased, among others. the freedom of breeders to have their own protected varieties and to make them available for reproductions. The obligation for farmers to provide written information on the use of the harvest material has also been abolished. A compromise was thus sought in the ongoing dispute between farmers and landowners. In our opinion, however, the proposed solutions are superficial and do not improve the agricultural market in the long term. The Law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties was passed by the High House despite our comments. The senators, having read the text of the Act, decided that two amendments were needed. One improves the terminology used in the revision, the other is editorial and aims to eliminate possible differences in interpretation. Both are therefore only cosmetic. Given that neither the work in the Sejm nor the subsequent work in the Senate removed our reservations, near Free and Solidarnia - as previously did not support the project - will not support the amendments proposed by the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u602	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities (prints 1583 and 1617). I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present to the High House a report by the Health Committee on the Government's draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities, Parliamentary Printing No 1617. The project involves introducing a minimum wage in health care into the Polish legal order. It sets out how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities, taking into account the type of work carried out, and how and schedule of the investigation to the established level of basic salary. Medical workers have been waiting for systemic minimum wage regulation for many years, unfortunately without an answer from the governments of POs and PSL. Failure to introduce the solutions that are currently under review to guarantee the lowest level of pay for medical workers has led to a reduction, as part of the easiest way to find savings, pay or freezing in recent years, sometimes drastically low wages in health care. The aim of the proposed law is not to establish the conditions for remuneration for the work of workers performing medical professions in such a way as to create the so-called. wage grids, but setting the lowest basic salaries, i.e. a minimum level below which the employer cannot set the basic salary. The establishment of the lowest basic salaries will increase the salaries of the least earning medical staff in the various professional groups. The mechanism used to increase salaries which differentiates the level of their increase depending on the level of the employee's basic salary to date will result in the least-earned workers receiving the highest increases. Such a mechanism will undoubtedly contribute to reducing wage disparities within the various occupational groups. It should be stressed that the target amounts of the lowest basic salaries laid down in the draft law were set at a level similar to the current average basic salaries of the different groups of medical professions. The draft law contained in the committee's report presented by me, unlike in the case of the universal cross-sectoral minimum wage, establishes the lowest basic salary. Such a solution is beneficial for medical workers due to their sustainability and the additional effect of the increase in the remaining components of remuneration, as well as the increase in the basic salary. Height of allowances, e.g. an internship, for medical work, night work, Sundays and holidays, as you know, depends on the amount of the basic salary. The legislation in force in previous years introduced increases in health care did not specify what elements of remuneration are to be increased. This led most directors to raise salaries in the form of temporary wage allowances, which were easy to collect, creating a feeling of uncertainty and lack of financial stability among employees. Turning to the specific regulations contained in the proposal, I would like to briefly bring up a few. According to the draft, medicinal products will be required to increase the basic salary of medical professionals by 31 December 2021. In turn, from 1 January 2022, the lowest basic salary laid down by the Act will not increase, but the basic salary of medical professionals will not be lower than that fixed at 31 December 2021. The lowest basic remuneration will be the product of the basic amount, i.e. the amount announced by the President of the CSO of the average monthly gross remuneration in the national economy in the year preceding the determination, and the labour coefficient set out in the annex to the draft law, and during the period from the date of entry into force of the Act until 31 December 2019 the basic amount was set at a frozen level of PLN 3900 gross. However, when regulating salaries in 2020 and 2021, employers will already be required to take into account the average monthly gross remuneration in the national economy of the year preceding the establishment. In the period from 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2021, the proposed law introduces a transitional period during which medicinal products will carry out gradual annual increases in basic salaries in order to achieve the lowest wage targets. The project sets minimum guaranteed basic wage increases of at least 10% in 2017 the amount of the difference between the lowest basic salary and the basic salary of the worker concerned, and thereafter between 1 July 2018 and 1 July 2021 by an amount of not less than 20% the remaining difference between the lowest basic salary fixed for the year concerned and the current basic salary of the worker concerned. The distribution of the investigation process to target minimum wages over the next four years will allow medicinal and public finances to implement the provisions of the Act without endangering the financial stability of both individual medicinal entities and the health system as a whole. The project also includes a dedicated solution for non-medical professionals. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 provides that, in agreement with the staff member or in the direction of the manager or the formation body, the rules for raising the remuneration of non-medical workers shall also be laid down in such a way that their remuneration corresponds in particular to the type of work carried out and the qualifications required for the performance of the work. The draft also provides for mechanisms to control the implementation of the law. The audit will include, on the one hand, medicinal entities and, on the other hand, the bodies of the State Labour Inspection as an institution specialised in controlling labour law compliance, including in particular the provisions with the lowest remunerations. I would like to inform you that during the first reading, one amendment was introduced to the project, stating that in 2017, the agreement under which salary increases will be made in specific medicinal entities will be concluded within one month of the date of entry into force of the Act. In the following years, the agreements will be concluded by 31 May each year. This amendment, which is a transitional provision, will remove doubts that might arise in the first year of application of the Law. High Seym! Mr. Marshal! The Health Committee welcomes the bill and asks for the draft to be adopted in the wording presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u604	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u605	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Due to the delay, I just wanted to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities. The law we are currently working on concerns only the lowest basic salary. The essence of the lowest basic salary in national wage policy is to protect the interests of vulnerable groups. This law fulfils the important role of the State in shaping remuneration policies, in particular the lowest salaries. The introduction of the provisions of this law is necessary because in health care we are faced with a accumulation of very many difficult situations, including in the employment system and in particular in the pay system. The law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities will allow a calm process of changes spread over a longer period of time to eliminate the pathological state of employment. I hope that it will be the beginning of deeper changes in ordering the state, structure and forms of employment of workers engaged in medical professions employed in entities and will promote the elimination of many pathologies. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u606	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u607	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical entities, prints No 1583 and 1617. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform has a negative opinion on the bill as it stands. In the explanatory memorandum, we would like to stress that the citizens' law was filed in parallel with the Marshal's staff. The motion that was made at the committee's meeting for the laws to be dealt with at the same time was not accepted. Or maybe then we could reach some kind of agreement. Nor did she accept the proposal to appoint a subcommittee. What I'm saying is that this bill will cover about 400,000. medical staff working in medical professions, as well as those working in non-medical professions in health care. It seems that since it involves such a large number of people, it would seem that this project should be leaned a little bit further. During the committee meeting, we also raised the following issues, ladies and gentlemen. The title of the Act is inadequate because Article. 5 also refers to the principle of increasing the remuneration of non-medical professionals, and the title explicitly refers to medical professions. This was also the focus of the Legislative Office. Unfortunately, it remained as it was. The project relates only to persons engaged in medical professions employed for employment contracts rather than in other forms. In the case of nurses and law that said: 4 x 400, she found recognition both in the form of employment and in other forms. At the same time, the Act interferes with the activities of public establishments. So here it was possible to make both public and private... There is a danger that there may be employment for contracts other than employment contracts. There is also no indication of funding. There is no guarantee that individual healthcare establishments will receive an increase in the contract necessary for the implementation of the law. There is talk of an increase in procedures - it is not known how this will be translated into hospital budgets. The most important issue, perhaps controversial, is the annex to the law on labour rates, which in our opinion requires work to be done. The range of coefficients is very flattened and very low above all. There is, ladies and gentlemen, in this group: a master's degree in nursing without specialization, which equals, is clear that actually a higher nursing school is unnecessary because it does not find recognition in your case. There are also no master's in rescue, no nutritionists. If it fits in point six, it's also too flattening this coefficient. As regards the allocation of a factor of 0.64, please countries, this will be equal to the lowest wage in 2019, so it is likely to be assumed. Is that how you... Since the ratio is 0.64, there are also nurses and midwives without specialization, so I ask if it will attract to work in the medical profession and make you stay with us in Poland. This is the case. Other professional groups, such as dietists, physiotherapists, not masters, but physiotherapists. Given the haste of project promoters and the impossibility of working on this project in the subcommittee and the above mentioned comments I have quoted, the Civic Platform Club will vote against the bill, but at the same time we make amendments and adopt them can change our decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u608	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u609	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present our position on the government draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities, seym prints No 1583 and 1617. The subject of the project is how to determine the level of the lowest basic salary available to individual professional groups, employees engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities. The lowest gross remuneration will be a product - the base amount of PLN 3900 currently calculated from 2015, multiplied by the coefficient set out in the table annexed to the draft law. But now I would like to refer to the main, say, problem of the Polish health system and I would like to explain this to you a little on the example of a factory, a large factory, which has many branches. Imagine this, because this is a cross-party problem, and here politics should not be. Polish health care system, if we compare it to a factory, at the moment it works like this: There is a large factory, a multi-branch which needs to suck up human resources, because there is a generational change, people are getting old, going to retirement, a normal thing. And as a general system, we suck in the training of young people, we train these young people, we spend very much money on it. And now imagine that there is a factory that recruits, trains for the hard money of its future employees, and after training, gives them very weak money, and a competitor who doesn't train them gives them better money and takes over these employees, with a kiss of his hand, they pass to him. That's how we act right now. We train young people, we train future specialist doctors who go to the West, a similar situation is with nurses. And this bill is designed to stop it, but the devil is full of details. I would like to remind you that, at the same time, this project was a complex civic project. I was at the Health Committee meeting yesterday. The applicant's representative has been assured that these projects are to be examined simultaneously so that they do not fear anything, and today, suddenly, surprise. We have this item on the agenda and we see that it is also at the voting point. So where's that last night's assurance? Marshal Kuchciński assured that there would be no separate procession, but we will work together on two projects. These people have been deceived. There's $250,000 in there. signatures. These are very important matters, because this is not the first thing, another thing where citizens have nothing to say because you do what you want. There's no excuse. Yesterday you fooled a bunch of medical professionals. They expected something else, and they were misled. And now I'm going back to the point. This draft law, in general, is essential to work on raising salaries in health care. Otherwise, we're gonna have staff coming out, as I've already told you. We are now faced, for example, with a very serious problem concerning the profession of nurses. The point is, it's a group that's generally advanced in age. In a few years, these ladies will retire. We got the information. We're going to have a crisis over just a lack of personnel. Without human servants, health care does not exist. We'll always buy machines, people are the worst. In order not to have this giant collapse, we need to suck into the staff system, give them a purpose, but this table that you have attached to this project really needs to be reformed. I think the rates you're proposing at this point are too low. It is not possible to support solutions which, in some years' time, will have financial consequences for those who most expect change, i.e. for nurses and resident doctors, because they do not have such a prospect of realization here. As Kukiz,15 we will not vote against the raises, because this is irrational, the State of the Civic Platform. How can you vote against raises? There's a raise. What do you mean? They're not, but there are these raises. You can't argue they're gone because they are. They are small, they should be larger, but increases for very underrated health care, especially nurses and resident doctors, are necessary. This is not enough, but Kukiz15 will absolutely not vote against increases in health care. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u610	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u611	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the government's draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical entities. We have been discussing the working conditions and wages of employees of the health care system, the phenomenon of economic emigration of young, well-educated doctors and nurses and midwives since the beginning of our term of office. For nearly 2 years, the health resort managed by Minister Radziwiłł did not present any long-term strategy to address the problem of lack of medical staff and thus did not secure patients in the area of access to medical services. Yesterday at the Health Committee meeting, the first reading of the government bill was held. Together with Members of the opposition, we have sought to have a citizens' project under which 240 000 have been signed. the citizens who submitted the Medical Profession Agreement have been examined at the same time as the government project. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. The Ministry was apparently afraid of directly confronting its ideas with real needs, which diagnosed the Medical Profession Agreement. It should also be made clear that the ruling party simply lacked good will. In the sixth term of the Sejm, as many as 229 draft laws were discussed jointly at committee meetings. This is a parliamentary custom that has been respected so far. In this term, it was already the case, for example. in the course of work on the medical marijuana law. Why was it different this time? What was dictated by this haste in the process of a government project? I am also wondering how Minister Radziwiłł felt by pushing the bill in this form, when in 2008 during the meeting of the Health Committee as head of the Chief Medical Chamber on the basic salary of a doctor, the dentist said exactly what is in the civic project. Have these 9 years changed the perception of the problem of labour migration of health professionals? Or maybe the minister thinks the problem is gone? Finally, I am amazed by the hypocrisy of the representatives of the ruling party. Contrary to previous announcements, you are ignoring nearly one million signatures from citizens who have requested a school referendum. Now you force and rush the government project so you don't look at it at the same time as the citizens who signed a quarter of a million citizens. Is this public openness? Today, health workers and voters say "I check," and Polish patients keep their fingers crossed for reason and responsibility. At this point, I would like to put on the hands of the Marshal drafts of amendments to the project under investigation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u612	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u613	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Marshal, in response to the appeal and in understanding the situation, I will try very briefly to present the position of the Polish People's Party club in relation to the procedated draft law with a very long title for establishing the lowest remuneration, prints No. 1583 and 1617. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The area concerned by this project... This project is certainly very needed and expected and the club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of continuing and ending these activities with good, appropriate solutions that will regulate this area and this field of life. We know how sensitive this area is and how low its wages are. However, we are surprised to see why this project has suddenly accelerated, since March Ub. r. this project, after the work of the Tripartite Commission, lay still and waited for its turn. Could it be the citizen's project that brought you to the marshal's office that speeded this up? I leave this point, but I do not hide that our club supports the provisions that are in the citizens' project, and I do not hide that, in our view, since there are two projects, and we want to implement, negotiate, create good records and solutions for the coming years, we should parallel these two projects. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These projects differ, but I believe that certain provisions in the citizens' project are very important and cannot be overlooked. This applies primarily to the indicators, the coefficients that we are dealing with, so-called. labour coefficients - as set out in the Annex to the draft resolution - relate to the establishment of remuneration for nurses and midwives. In our view, the level of education, the degree is very important, but it is also important to prepare and work experience, which is why it is important to assume that a group of nurses and midwives, when they were educated, had no possibility of getting a higher education and a diploma, and would therefore be disadvantaged in the coming period in determining their salary. Given the fact that this applies to a large group of nurses, on behalf of our club, I make two amendments to the changes in employment rates in the post. 8 and 9, so as to correct those adverse situations which will later occur at the time of the calculation of remuneration. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since we can no longer talk about the solutions that we are going to develop on the basis of these two projects, I am asking for these amendments to be adopted, which will reduce the impact of these provisions to a very minimum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u614	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej. Next up will be Mrs Lydia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u615	You've fooled the Sovereign impudently, specifically 240,000. persons who have signed up to a civic project on the lowest salary in the medical professions. Yesterday at the Health Committee meeting, all of you on the part of the governing party assured that the citizens' project would meet with a government project at the Health Committee meeting at the level of first reading. I would like to remind the High House that there is a chronic shortage of nurses and midwives in Poland. How does the PiS government in this situation want to encourage young women to take up this difficult and responsible profession? I understand that by taking the real, real raises of Prof. Marian Zembala and giving in return a scrap from this bill to 49 zlotys for the ladies most earning in the competitions of nurse and midwife. This is a mockery of this profession, so I ask very specifically: What will happen after the present law with the social contract entered into force, i.e. with the regulation of Minister Marian Zembali of 2015, [[♪ The bell ♪]] is that with a raise of 4 times 400 gross? We all have legitimate concerns that this time-shared increase by Professor Zembala, accepted by all sides: government and social, will be... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u616	Thank you, Member. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u617	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What happened that for a year you kept a bill somewhere in your freezers, actually not even a sejm, just a club, and all of a sudden, none of a sudden, like a competitive social project, you throw a quarter of a million signatures of health workers into the basket just so that you don't take the sovereign's voice into account, and suddenly you push your knees in one day a government project, a project that is otherwise needed as such? On the other hand, why do you not follow the good customs which yesterday were promised to the social side and the opposition from your Members that both projects will be examined together? What really happened and why the base amount is frozen [[♪ The bell ♪]] By 2019, which means by the time you're done with your governments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u618	Thank you. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u619	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to quote one comment: We will fix this system, save people, patients, nurses, and guarantee them quick decisions. Health workers will finally get decent wages. In addition to the efficiency of the whole system, decent pay in health care will be our priority. A nurse and a doctor have to work for decent money. The coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party and my government will guarantee an increase in salaries in health care. Do you know whose words these are? Yeah, those are Donald Tusk's words, his exposé. I have a rhetorical question. What was the increase in salaries for health workers during the days of the PO and PSL government? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u620	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u621	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am after this year's meeting of the Management Board of the Silesian Region of the National Association of Nurses and Obstetrics and Regional Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics in Katowice in the Rybnicki District of Coal. I therefore submit questions. Will the initiative - the citizens' project created by the Medical Profession Agreement be taken into account? This has been an event since 1989. Will the Act also apply to medical rescue environments? Do the proposed solutions also include work in the health care of school nurses? Finally, will this law have a beneficial effect on increasing the staff on duty to ensure that patients can perform their medical and care activities properly? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u622	Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u623	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Discussion on the bill proved how many unfulfilled needs and unresolved problems in health care left behind PO and PSL. Today you are pointing out the State of Law and Justice is all that you have not done for eight years of your own governments, for two terms. The Act regulates the remuneration of medical staff, determines the lowest remuneration. Minister, is it true that, according to the draft law, the minimum remuneration of intern doctors will increase by more than 1,600 PLN over four years by 2021? Today is 2007 PLN. Is it true that the proposed regulation will also include medical rescue workers and their minimum remuneration will increase to more than 3.5 thousand. Evil? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u624	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u625	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem of low wages for certain groups of workers engaged in medical professions and huge wage disparities are a fact and little has been done about this over the years. On the contrary, this was the case. It gives rise to a sense of injustice, injustice. The Act is a step towards healing this situation. Between 2017 and 2021 the level of the lowest basic salary is expected to gradually increase. The project will, of course, increase the expenditure incurred by healthcare providers. The expected source is the amounts received from the National Health Fund. My questions. Are they expected to increase in the amount to cover the cost of increases? If not, what are the ways to find the missing funds? What about those in financial difficulties and possible increases in revenues from the National Health Fund would like to allocate to recovery [[♪ The bell ♪]] your financial situation, for example, debt management? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u626	Thank you. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u627	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm not a doctor, I'm not a nurse, I'm not in this business. I was obliged by my constituents to ask you a few questions. Let me quote them from my memory. One of them was, "Have you guys gotten completely out of the picture in this ministry? In a couple of years, we're gonna have a health emergency. There are thousands of doctors and nurses missing today, and you're offering some kind of raise. Not too big, unsatisfying, completely inadequate for what these people have offered in other countries of the European Union, where with a kiss on the hand they are hired immediately. What other ideas do you want to push to keep these people in Poland to encourage them to do so after many years? [[♪ The bell ♪]] hard work were doctors and nurses? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u628	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u629	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Two questions. The first question about the Masters of Nursing, it repeated several times. How would you like to tell me where your master's degree in nursing, in which group you think you're going to be in, and what is the conversion factor? Like I said, I couldn't find it, and the coefficients we were talking about, 0.64, that's just something I don't think we should even offer. Second question. Could you tell me which of the social partners has accepted this bill? Because it's not true that we're against the raises, we're against the bill, and I think if we make some more changes, it'll probably be good for everyone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u630	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u631	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First question. Which is why today we have a second reading of the government project, and you've depreciated, you've thrown out a citizens' project, under which almost 250,000 signed. People? That's one thing. Second. What makes this law the only provision on finance, limited finances, on post-graduate internships of doctors and residents, and then there's a record that says that the number of residents will be fixed every year, but taking into account the money that we spend on post-graduate internships? Doesn't that mean that young doctors will be left again in the coming years, who will not find a place on the residency, which in times of huge loss of young medical staff in all health care institutions in Poland will cause a lack of filling this hole. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A generational? Please answer: Will this not limit the number of residents?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u632	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u633	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u634	Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u635	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Seym! Brief Questions: What caused us to talk about it at such a rate? Besides, why didn't you indicate the sources of funding in your project? This is about 8 billion PLN, which we must find within 10 years. Will the financial responsibility be once again on the part of hospital and self-government directors? Why have the residents we care so much about been disbanded once again from this raise? Why are there no paramedics in this group who have been waiting for their raises for weeks? Why do you have $250,000? The signatures under this civic project, which he was promised to be dealt with in parallel with this bill, were thrown into the trash? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u636	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u637	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Lies, lies, lies. We will listen to citizens' voices, we will look at citizens' draft laws, we will organise referendums. So? Mr. Marshal Kuchciński, the count is jammed, can't count 900,000. Voices. At the moment, we have another example, a citizen's project, 250,000. Votes in the trash. Is that how you listen to your citizens? All of a sudden, they're awake, and after almost a year and a half, you're running a government project. Is this how you work with society? You cheat every step of the way. There's no permission to do that. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[George, I got scared.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u638	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u639	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, is it true that, for 8 years of the Civic Platform's rule, apart from the incident of increases for nurses just before the election, no systemic increases were granted? Is it true that just for the first time in years is the proposal for a systemic solution, for a few years when these increases will be implemented, and for a number of different medical professions? Finally, Minister, it is also necessary to clarify - because it is clear that not everyone has read the law - what system of these increases will be applied here and where the money will be taken, because all those who were at the committee meeting should have this matter clarified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u640	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u641	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is probably the first time people in the medical profession have united and presented to the High House such a really good proposal on wage regulation. I have to say, this is something extraordinary, so far we haven't dealt with such a situation in history. This is presented in the form of a civil project. So? And the PiS, who in the campaign promised to the left and right that citizens would treat with respect that citizens' projects would be considered in the High House, the PiS which promised so, of course, lied - the citizens' project went to the basket, went to the shredder, while the state presented its project, which is just embarrassing. Minister, why doesn't the PiS government like people in kitels so much? That's my question. Second question: How many social organisations consulted this project, but, more importantly, how many social organisations evaluated this project positively? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u642	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please, Minister Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u643	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As Mr. Marshal disciplines me on time, I will try to answer the most important questions about this project. Ladies and gentlemen, why this project at this moment? Since the date of entry into force of this project - from 1 July 2017 - has been introduced since the very beginning of the process, and this project is therefore being submitted to the High House today, so that we can meet our commitments that have been declared to health professionals. The question of continuing the raises for nurses, so-called. Four times 400. Yes, it will continue and the bill does not affect the continuation of this Appendix 4 times 400. The law covers all medical personnel, so it is enshrined in the title. The medical worker is a paramedic, is a physiotherapist, is a nurse, is a doctor - so all medical workers are subject to this law and allow them to establish minimum salaries. As far as costs are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, Article. 6 makes it clear what the budgetary costs are, and there are clearly indicated amounts that will be allocated over the years to finance the increase from the budget. On the other hand, as regards the costs of the health sector, they are estimated at about PLN 16.8 billion and according to the multiannual financial plan of the NFZ-tu this is consistent with the increase in income of the NFZ-tu, so it is possible to cover these increases from the income of the NFZ-tu. The next question concerned groups of nurses, there were reservations about groups of nurses. Ladies and gentlemen, you are referring to a citizens' project, and the citizens' project includes the different categories of medical staff, including nurses, in the same way. And under that project, the nurses signed off on it. We therefore believe that this corresponds to social expectations. Finally, I would just like to say what amounts health workers will receive after implementation of this regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, you say that these are minimum wages, embarrassingly low, and that will result in workers going abroad. I'll give the examples. Perhaps for you these are embarrassingly low wages, but for example. in the professional group of doctors in 4 years the basic salary will be increased by PLN 1855. In a professional group of nurses, just nurses with a higher education, a master's degree, with a specialization, there will be an increase in basic salary of over 2500 PLN. Also in the group of professional rehabilitators, physiotherapists will increase the basic salary - by about PLN 1200. These are significant increases. We hope that they will result in workers staying in Poland. I stress: this is a minimum regulation that allows employers to discuss wage increases as far as possible in the case of individual professions. [[Residents and interns.]] Residents and interns are also considered. In your governments you have fixed them a salary at the level of 2007 PLN, while in connection with our regulation we propose 3650 PLN to trainees. [[It will be at the expense of residents.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u644	Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u645	Minister! You didn't understand my question. I didn't ask if residents and post-graduate trainees would get a raise, but if by chance this entry in the bill, in an article that says that you will set limits for resident doctors every year, but you will take into account what is above, i.e. those limitations related to post-graduate internships... This means that from the amount that will be allocated to residents, the amount for intern doctors will be deducted, i.e. for resident doctors who should also receive a raise, there will be less money, so there will be fewer residents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tell me that. Answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u646	Thank you, Member. The Minister will answer in writing. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u647	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Health Commission on the draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities. The project will certainly systematically regulate the rules for determining the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities. I am also convinced that it will help to eliminate the sense of social injustice currently prevailing among those workers who are remunerated according to different principles. The proposed law will introduce provisions to ensure the protection of the basic salary, and those who earn the least will be guaranteed a gradual increase in their salary. It is also important that the law sets only the lower limit of remuneration and not their upper rate. According to the draft law, the first salary increase is foreseen for 1 July 2017 and further stages will be introduced gradually in order not to disrupt the financial structure of medicinal entities. In its intention, the proposed law is to encourage interest in training in medical professions and later employment in our country. And in this respect, I have the most doubts. The proposed rates, of course, increase today's salary. However, it will not be attractive enough to compete with offers from this professional area in other European countries or offers from other professions. In my view, therefore, it is important to seek to increase wages to the level of attractiveness in relation to existing labour alternatives. This is particularly important, as was also raised during the work in committee, because among others. Polish nurses and midwives are currently a professional group, most of which are workers closer to the retirement age. Given the rate of aging of the Polish population and the need for medical care, this is a very worrying indicator. The bill assigns medical staff employed in medical entities to 10 professional groups. However, it does not take into account the interests of certain groups of workers, e.g. hospital pharmacists, as suggested by their representative during the committee's deliberations. I am also anxious to observe the omission in the law of the entire environment of addictive therapists, both addict psychotherapy specialists and addicting instructors. Failure to include these professions in the list of medical staff will make it possible for the directors of the ZOZs to freely interpret the provisions of the Act. It discredits their skills and can cause financial degradation. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u648	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. The Member objects. We'll settle this in the voting block. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min 53 hours 21 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. High Izbo! May I have your attention, please? [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I would like to remind you that on 26 May this year. Prof. Zbigniew Brzeziński died. Humanistic values, service ethos, and authentic patriotism from home have shaped him for life. Separated from Poland by World War II, he did not lose communication with his homeland. This has not changed any subsequent interest in international affairs, nor has a prominent academic and political career in North America, crowned by the position of Head of the National Security Council in the administration of President Jimmy Carter. Also after leaving the Council, he remained an influential person in US policy, listened to independently of party affiliations. He actively supported democratic movements in Central Europe and Polish Solidarity. He also spared no support from Poland in later years, promoting the European course of Polish foreign policy, strong transatlantic links and a strong state position in relations with neighbours. Many world leaders mattered to his voice. He never refused to support Polish affairs in America. On 9 June, at the D.C. cemetery, we bid farewell to our great compatriot, Prof. Zbigniew Brzeziński. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is 1621. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. Let me remind you that the Modern Posel Club has applied for items to be added to the agenda: - Information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on security and protection of the most important persons in the country, - Information from the Minister of National Defence about the HR situation in the Polish army, the degree of implementation of multi-purpose helicopter contracts and the state of completion of purchases for the Navy, - Information from the Minister of the Environment on the effects of the Nature Conservation Act of 16 December 2016 and the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act and the Forest Law. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 Members shall make formal submissions. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u649	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to submit an article. Paragraph 184. Point 3 (1) of the request for an adjournment by tomorrow at no later than 3 p.m. 10. Mr. Marshal, you must be clear that today you started a raid on the Supreme Court. Three requests to the TK concerning the Supreme Court are not a coincidence. Mr. Marshal says there's a dispute of competence. But did the Supreme Court want to pardon someone? No. Your motion is unfounded. In turn, PiS Members claim in their conclusion that the Supreme Court has no right to examine legal issues. It's the other way around, it's one of his basic competences. From a legal point of view, the proposal of the PiS Members is simply a legal nonsense. Students of the first year of law know that, too bad it is not Members of the PiS. [[But as early as the third year, they know it's different.]] Minister Ziobro, on the other hand, wants to take away the victim's right to file the cassation, and when? That's when his party buddy sits on the jury of the defendants. These proposals are purely revenge at the Supreme Court, at a court which is steadfastly upholding the independence of Polish courts and today pays the price for it. [[Applause]] And at a high price for this attack will unfortunately also pay Polish democracy, but we will do everything to ensure that the highest price for this unlawful action, for these attacks on the Supreme Court, is paid by Members of the PiS. [[Applause]] [[Stop it, stop it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u650	I'm just gonna point out that by mouth. Article 2 184 formal requests may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings. So that I cannot accept this proposal as a formal proposal. Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor. It's also a formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u651	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! According to Art. Paragraph 184. Point 1 on behalf of the Posel Club I'm applying to your marshal for a recess... [[Parliamentary, not parliamentary.]] ...and convene the Senior Convention to clarify the public opinion of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mariusz Błaszczak, the situation that took place today in the Białowieża Forest. Why were defenseless citizens and citizens sent to the police force to remove the protesters? It was a pacification, ladies and gentlemen. It was a brutal action. [[Joy in the Chamber]] There was an ambulance, they were beaten up. Is that funny? You can't...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u652	Madame, your proposal has nothing to do with the agenda either.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u653	...to talk to people. You can't talk to people who don't think you do. [[Don't scream.]] You'd rather use the police...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u654	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u655	...instead of sitting down and talking in a human way.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u656	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u657	The methods you applied today...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u658	...your motion...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u659	...are Bolshevik, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u660	...is not tied to the agenda...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u661	Bolshevik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u662	...or in the course of the sitting. I'm so sorry, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u663	I think the public has a right to know the reasons why the police brutally treated citizens today... [[Don't yell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u664	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u665	...in the Bialowieza Forest. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u666	Madam, I will have to take your vote because I cannot take your speech as a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u667	I'm just gonna say... [[Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u668	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much, this is not a formal conclusion. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the formal proposals can only concern matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the sitting. This is the case with Art. Paragraph 184. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u669	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to Art. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm request a recess. Today we talked at the Sejm meeting during the current information about what is happening in the Treasury companies and I would like to give you a chance to explain to us what is happening in key financial companies in the hands of the state, i.e. PZU, Pekao and Alior. [[It's going very well.]] You assured Poles that the state of the public finance sector is taking place in order to ensure stability and financial independence, and it is confirmed that it was only about the next tables in the State Treasury companies. The best evidence is the new Pekao Supervisory Board, where friends of the Prime Minister and other politicians of Law and Justice settled in instead of professionals. The supervisory board of the bank is not the place to take a banking internship. Working there requires specialist, professional knowledge, which can only be acquired through lower jobs. Bank clients are concerned, bank employees are concerned. You politicize the public finance sector to influence a number of decisions. Prime Minister, please explain what is happening in the key financial institutions for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u670	Thank you. Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u671	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I request that this session be adjourned until you finally decide to definitively remove the bill from the agenda... [[Voice from the room: Two even.]] ...two laws you want to destroy the justice system. I thank the President that he may have read the interview of his colleague Judge Johann, who today, in an interview with the Republican Government, made it clear that both the KRS Act and the law amending the Law on the System of General Courts had nothing to do with judicial reform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u672	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u673	Perhaps the President understood that by these laws you are giving extremely dangerous tools to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u674	Mr President, you are talking about items that do not concern the agenda because they are not there. [[No, they're in the script.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u675	Mr. Marshal, for now on the agenda, according to what you presented this morning, there are two draft laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u676	Mr President, there are no points. [[Voice from the room: What do you mean there isn't one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u677	Mr. Marshal, it's time to stop playing with the Polish Sejm. It's not a toy in your hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u678	Mr President, I ask you to end the speech because this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u679	This is a formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u680	Mr President, I remind you that this morning the Sejm voted to refer both draft laws to committee [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] and they are no longer on the agenda of the Sejm. Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u681	Mr. Marshal! I ask you, for a break and for the convening of the Senior Convention, because I believe that the Senior Convention should address this issue. Here are Members who claim the rights of Polish citizens who are detained, arrested, because they defend forests. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Members who go out on the stand and defend the Polish Constitution defend the independence of the courts. [[A squirrel's gun.]] You limit that right to them. Sometimes I get the feeling that if Rejtan had lied down here in defence of the Constitution, you would have told him that this is not the item on the agenda. That's how you treat the Sejm. It is about more serious matters than the rules, it is about the Polish constitution, it is about the independence of the courts and it is about civil liberties. I therefore demand that the Sejm Bureau meet and assess the way in which your Marshal conducts his deliberations. The Rules of Procedure apply to Members, but the Rules of Procedure also apply to the Marshal of the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u682	I humbly accept every criticism, but not the criticism, because it is unobject. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: More culture.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can allow one request, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloski from the Modern Club, in the part that concerns the break, because I do not see the need to convene the Senior Convention. Tomorrow in the morning before the session begins, a meeting of the Senior Convention is announced. I will put the request for a recess to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 163 votes against - 262, 3 abstentions. The motion was rejected. We are voting on the proposal to protect the most important people in the country. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting a request to supplement the agenda with a point including consideration of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration's information on security and protection of the most important people in the country, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 174 voted against - 262, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the proposal concerning the situation in the Polish army. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a request to supplement the agenda with a point including consideration of the information of the Minister of Defence on the situation of personnel in the Polish army, the degree of implementation of multi-tasking helicopters contracts and the state of delivery of purchases for the Navy, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 177 voted against - 263, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the proposal on the effects of the amendment to the Nature Conservation and Forest Act. Who of the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point including consideration of the information of the Minister of the Environment on the effects of the Nature Conservation Act of 16 December 2016 and the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act and the Forest Act, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The vote was 180, against 262, and no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We would like to return to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical entities. Amendments were tabled in the discussion. In view of the proposal to re-direct the bill to the Health Committee, objections were raised. I will vote on the proposal to reassign the bill to the Health Committee. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm will proceed to the third reading after serving to the ladies and gentlemen the table of amendments. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, hello! Hello!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of proposing to send a government draft bill on how to determine the lowest basic salary for medical professionals again to the Health Committee will want to raise their hand and press the button. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. There were 195 votes against, 234 abstentions. I find that the Sejm has rejected the proposal. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill after serving the Members with a list of amendments tabled in today's voting block. A formal request shall be made by the Member, President Arłukowicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u683	Mr. Marshal! I would ask for clarification by making a formal request for a break, what is happening in this House. It has just been voted out, actually without any discussion, that the law, which today had a reading, which today was being examined by the Sejm, is talking about salaries in the health care system to which amendments were made at second reading... You are voting to vote immediately, without the opinion of the Committee on Health, all the more so because it is submitted to your marshal, and the marshal knows this very well, a civic project talking about the same matter. With this bill we're discussing, the nurses don't agree, the doctors don't agree, the paramedics don't actually agree, everyone protests. A project was submitted, under which 250,000 were signed. People, and you're rushing with this project, you don't know why. Are you afraid to discuss what people want? This is an unusual thing to move on to the third reading without the committee's opinion. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u684	High Seym! A country, which is not the first term of office once more, knows that there are such votes in each term. [[But we haven't seen anything like it.]] If the Sejm makes a decision, we can vote on the amendments without referring them to the committee, so I'm using... [[But why? Why are you doing this?]] [[Scandal!]] The Sejm uses the rules that apply. [[Mr. Marshal, we are not the first term and we do not remember this situation.]] We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1590-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u685	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts, print No 1563. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights after considering the amendment tabled at today's session of the Sejm by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on Article. 2, i.e. vacathio legis, a 14-day minimum, requests that this amendment be rejected. A brief explanation. This bill has two articles. Art. 1 concerns the representative powers of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland in judicial administrative matters before the provincial administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court. Since only these attorneys, professional lawyers, are the addressees of this law, High Izbo, is about replacing them in this judicial administrative procedure. A 14-day term is a term which would cause that many procedural actions could not be carried out, it is a matter of appeal, of taking part in already appointed hearings. Therefore, in such cases, the Act may enter into force upon publication. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u686	Thank you, sir. We will vote first on the amendment in question. In the amendment to the article. 2 applicants, I would remind you, propose that the law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni. [[I was talking about activists, there's a mistake here.]] Oh, that's not right now, is it? Good. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 198 voted against - 229, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1563, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 436, 5 against, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on Procedure before administrative courts. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Senate draft law on amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1557-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Janusz Sniadek to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u687	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that one amendment was tabled in the second reading of the bill amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists. The Social Policy and Family Committee at the meeting rejected this amendment - the ratio of votes: 14 against, 8 abstentions, 1 for - as before three minority proposals. Therefore, I have a personal great pleasure and satisfaction to ask the High House to adopt the proposed law without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u688	Thank you, sir. As we have heard, the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1557. It also presents minority proposals and - as we have heard in an additional report - an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons consisting in adding paragraphs. 3a and 3b, as well as the addition of paragraph. 6a to Article 6a 15 law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war period applicants propose among others. an increase in the amount of benefit referred to in those provisions in certain situations. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u689	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed bill meets the expectations of former anti-communist opposition activists and oppressed persons. The important thing is that the aid covers all activists, regardless of income. The proposed amendment states that anti-communist opposition activists or persons being repressed after receiving the proposed supplement should be guaranteed a minimum of income at the level that we provide to the Esbeks in the Act, i.e. at least PLN 2100 gross. I am talking about people who will receive only PLN 1100 if they have the lowest pension, or PLN 1400 if they are on the lowest pension, after taking into account the additional benefits provided by the Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I personally know former workers living in poverty for less than PLN 1000. On behalf of these people, please vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u690	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 199, against - 216, with 24 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority application, applicants shall propose not to amend Article. 15 Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons, as well as delete the article. 8th draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 177 voted against - 262, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority application, applicants shall propose not to amend Article. 7 and 7 and do not add Article. 7 in the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 179 voted against - 259, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the third minority proposal to Article. 82 Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund of the applicant - by adding paragraph. 1a and in the mouth. 2 - propose that the President of the Council of Ministers, after consulting the Minister responsible, grant, in particularly justified cases, the pension referred to in that provision to persons under conditions other than those laid down in the Act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 177 voted against - 258, with 6 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Before voting on the whole of the bill, Members are asked questions. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u691	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the senators who prepared this bill, Senator Jan Rulewski, who carried out this bill also by the Sejm. It is a good thing that we are improving the 2015 Act and extending the catalogue of people who can benefit from both financial and non-financial assistance, to those who have actually done everything to make sure that we live in a free and independent country. However, I hope that in the same way, in the name of solidarity, the beneficiaries of this law will be both those for whom the undisputed leader of the 'Solidarity' is Lech Wałęsa and those who disagree. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u692	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u693	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This speaker is to be thanked first and foremost for Senator Jan Rulewski, who has been fighting for this bill for many years, and in his previous term of office and in this term of office. It is good that we are adopting this law, and you have - the parliamentary majority - our support in this matter. But you wouldn't be yourselves if you didn't break this bill, unfortunately. You actually eliminate, restrict, but really destroy the role of opinion bodies for the office of oppressed and veterans, and really leave all the power in the hands of the head of the veteran office, which President Kaczyński was gracious to make the creator of the Smolensk monthlys. We are afraid that you will give these privileges to people for today's views, not for the merits of the fight against the commune. If you do this... [[So what are you gonna do?]] ...then history will judge you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You'll be the judge of history, too, for everything.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u694	Mr President, it wasn't a question, it was polemics. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u695	I'm warning you, don't share the people who are being repressed... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...in communist times in terms of opinion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u696	Mr Jan Mosiński, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor. I'd just like to ask questions. Are you Mr Mosiński? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u697	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You had to win the parliamentary elections to make amends to the opposition activists... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] ...because of what the Civic Platform has admitted with PSL, a few hundred out of several tens of thousands... [[Jan Rulewski is the designer of this bill.]] ...for tens of thousands of people being repressed. [[You didn't write that bill.]] Mr. Nitras, don't talk at all about this. [[Why?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] Get your shit together. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Janusz Śniadek for having carried out the bill so efficiently, and above all to thank all those underground organizations who worked on the project and reached consensus. Your actions, Mr Nitras' actions, were designed to torpedo this project so that only a few hundred more people could benefit from a fair solution - I stress: a fair solution. [[In Poland, underground organizations are only being established.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u698	However, I would ask you gentlemen to ask questions. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u699	I think that my previous speaker was referring to organizations, in quotes, veterans, that is, organizations of people associated with the former underground, with which I also identify. And I wanted to thank all these organizations for the fact that, thanks to their constant, persistent and stubborn actions, they managed to bring them - also with the help of Senator Rulewski, as well as other Members, Senators and various kinds of activists, often not fully compatible, but in this matter compatible - to the fact that those who have often devoted their youth, their health and some have devoted their lives should now not be supported, but as a mere element of respect receive the help they deserve. Many have passed away in poverty, extreme poverty. Thank you very much, sir, for moving forward with this matter - I am speaking to Mr Brunette. Thank you very much to everyone who has supported this, and I would very much like us to vote on this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[Applause]] This is a matter of dedication...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u700	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u701	...Honor the people of good work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u702	Thank you, Mr President, but this too, I remind you, was not a question. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like a corrigendum, please.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[But a corrigendum.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1557 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 438 against 2, 1 member abstained. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws. He approved it in the presence of interned representatives, whom I warmly welcome. [[The gathered get up, long-lasting applause]] We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on bailiffs. In the discussion, a request was made for the exclusive referral of the draft law to the Legislative Commission. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is to refer the draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent a draft law to the Legislative Commission for consideration. The question is raised by Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u703	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will ask one question to paragraphs 6 and 7, because it concerns the same question. The proposal concerned the referral of this bill on bailiffs and the costs of bailiffs to the Legislative Commission. So I ask your marshal, "Why do you permanently violate the rules of the Sejm and its annex?" [[Because they do.]] The Committee on Justice and Human Rights - I read to you from the Rules of Procedure - are matters of law and law, courts, prosecutors, notaries, lawyers, etc., etc. It is for the Legislative Commission to recognise laws and resolutions. So I repeat the question: Why have you been pushing all the laws through the justice commission for two years now, when all such laws should be dealt with by the Legislative Commission? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u704	Thank you. I will only reply to you and to your fellow Members that you are wrong, because the proposal of the Sejm Bureau is based on the powers conferred on the Committee on Justice in the Rules of Procedure. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of referring the draft law contained in print No 1582 to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? And, of course, the Sejm will settle this case. 440 Members voted. The vote was 382 against - 58, no one abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft bill on bailout costs. In the discussion, a request was made for the exclusive referral of the draft law to the Legislative Commission. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is to refer the draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent a draft law to the Legislative Commission for consideration. The question is raised by Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u705	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! During the discussion of this project, a situation came up that did not surprise us. This is another example of the fact that the Minister of Justice wants to have power over everything, the courts, the KRS, the bailiffs. During the discussion, to show that this change is right and should be well received, it was shown how much money the bailiffs make. And I would like to point out that, compared to Misiewicz, who are in the Treasury companies, they are beggars. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u706	There's no need for comment here. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of referring the draft law contained in print No 1581 to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 378, against - 62, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. In the discussion, proposals were made to refer the bill to the Board of Administration and Home Affairs and to the Committee on Public Finance. The proposal given by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put this draft law to the vote in turn. I can't hear you objecting. The question is raised by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u707	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to express my sincere apologies for the vote on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Senate bill amending the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and those who are being repressed. I just made a mistake. It's human to be wrong. So that I apologize very sincerely for this vote. As for this point, I would like to say that for personal reasons I was unable to refer to this law. On the other hand, I would like to thank my colleague Jarosław Sachajka, who presented this bill with great professionalism. [[But what is it?]] I would like to thank the House for its approval, because what the firefighters are doing is very important. They save lives every day. And we're all gonna need each of us to save our lives someday. And as important as human life is, I've learned in the last month. Luckily, my parents are with me today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's mom and dad at the gallery...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u708	Sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u709	...so that I greet you very warmly. [[Applause]] Thank you for being here. I love you guys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u710	Mr, uh... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We welcome all parents, but I would very much like to ask you not to abuse the procedure of the question point, because your speech is a classic speech as part of the Members' statements. Here... [[Pro-family policy.]] We're coming... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'm sorry. We are voting on the referral of the project to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of submitting the bill contained in prints 852 and 852-A, in addition to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 422 against - 12, 1 member abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the vote to refer the bill to the Committee on Public Finances. But before that, the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15. I understand your parents aren't in the O.R.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u711	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday's support by all parliamentary clubs to continue the process of honoring the service of voluntary firefighters does not raise opposition among parliamentarians. With a view to taking care of the budget of the State, I kindly ask Members to support the referral of the bill also to the finance committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u712	Of course, that was a veiled question I didn't understand. We proceed with the vote to refer the bill to the Committee on Public Finances. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of submitting the bill contained in prints 852 and 852-A, in addition to the Committee on Public Finance, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 427 voted against - 11, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We are returning to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the citizens' draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. In the discussion, proposals were made to refer the bill to the Board of Administration and Home Affairs and to the Committee on Public Finance. The proposal given by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put this draft law to the vote in turn. I can't hear you objecting. We are voting on the referral of the project to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of submitting the draft law contained in print 1534 in addition to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 421 voted against - 14, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. It happens as we see it. We proceed with the vote on the referral of the project to the Committee on Public Finance. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of submitting the draft law contained in print No. 1534 in addition to the Committee on Public Finance will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 424 voted against - 14, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility on the preliminary proposal for constitutional liability before the Court of State of former President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński. In the discussion, requests were made to return the report to the committee to complete the procedure. These applications have been delivered to ladies and gentlemen for print No 1340. First of all, I will put to the vote the proposals put forward in the discussion. If they are rejected, I will put to the vote a request to hold the Court of State accountable. In the first proposal, the applicant proposes to refer again to the Constitutional Responsibility Commission a request for constitutional liability before the Court of State of the former President of the Council of Ministers in order to supplement the evidence. The question is raised by Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u713	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Court of State is an institution practically dead in the Third Republic - the Court of State as an institution that should account for politicians, politicians responsible for scandals, politicians responsible for failing to keep promises, politicians who often commit treason. Yes, the Court of State should operate in Poland, often after 1989. The proposal we are looking at, i.e. the proposal for Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, is very weak. But I have a question for the ruling majority, and I have a question for Law and Justice: When is the Court of State for Donald Tusk? [[Applause]] When do you take political responsibility for the scandals, for the gambling scandal, for Amber Gold, for Smolensk? When to hold Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz responsible for what she said... [[Step by step, Robert.]] [[Go ahead.]] ...from this speaker, for her behavior in 2010? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is what the Poles want. The attraction to political responsibility...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u714	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u715	...before the Citizen Platform's Court of State politicians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u716	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 171 votes against - 265, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Applause]] In the second proposal, the applicant proposes to refer to the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility a report from the committee on the work on the proposal we are talking about. The question is raised by Mr Adam Szłapka, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u717	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Prime Minister, I remember your government ten years ago. I remember Lepper, I remember Giertych, and I remember that you even pulled Judge Kryza out and dragged a communist judge into this government. It was a weak government, and I think you're aware that it was a weak government because you had to work with these people. [[The weakest.]] But the fact that it was a weak government doesn't disqualify you at all. It disqualifies you that you were violating the law at the time, and that you abused power. In a democratic state of law, in order not to break the democratic principles of the rule of law, those who have violated the law and abused power should be held accountable, and this is one of the biggest abuses of the previous term of office, that the years 2005 and 2007 have not been settled, because what we are experiencing today is, at the worst, the redecision of those years 2005 and 2007. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u718	That wasn't a question. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. I would ask you to ask a question, just ask the rapporteur, because he is the only one who is able to answer here, he is worthy to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u719	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. Why didn't you let me interview the witnesses on the committee? Why have you closed your mouth to Members of the opposition? [[But how's the agency?]] Why didn't you want the committee to properly recognize this request for the committee to question witnesses who would tell the truth that President Jarosław Kaczyński in that term of office had given Zbigniew Ziobrze special tasks at that time... [[How much for the service?]] ...that he was supposed to be a super minister? Why didn't you want to talk about witnesses telling the truth? You didn't want to hear it. You've closed the mouth of the opposition, you've shut your mouths to everyone who wants to tell the truth. And that's your method. You think if you shut your mouth, no one will know about it. The world will find out sooner or later what the truth was, that you were actually running a group that had very bad intentions, and why [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what you've done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u720	Thank you, sir. The rapporteur, Mr Arent, will answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u721	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The Commission has voted by a large majority of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility to close the proceedings after hearing the testimony of the witnesses during this procedure. Let me remind you that the preliminary proposal was submitted in 2013. So it's been years since then... [[When they had most.]] ...and you also had a majority by 2015. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] You didn't file a case because it's known that this request was... [[There was no evidence.]] ...very weak in substance. I'm going to address why the committee thought the evidence was sufficient. We based ourselves on the testimony of witnesses who testified in this case, on the testimony of witnesses who testified in the case concerning the same matter, and the question concerned Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. We have taken into account the information available to you from the committees of inquiry that functioned in previous terms. They were so-called. the pressure committee, the committee on the Mrs. Barbara Blida's death. And here I'm going to share with you some of the statements on which the committee decided that these were sufficient grounds for... [[Just don't read selectively.]] [[All of them, read them all.]] ...close the proceedings because no one else is going to bring into this case what we've presented. Mr. Roman Giertych, a witness to your idol, testified that he had not attended meetings to be held at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and during which the case concerning the investigation in which the name of Barbara Blida was to appear was just under discussion. He also testified that he did not know if Prime Minister Kaczyński had influenced the course of the investigation. The witness also added that he had not witnessed any situation... [[Who said anything about handcuffs?]] ...in which Prime Minister Kaczyński would give direct orders to Mariusz Kaminski or Zbigniew Ziobrze. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! So what?]] I recommend the interrogation protocol. I invite you to the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. All documents are available on the spot, each of you has the right to read it. According to witness Roman Giertych, I will remind you that Jarosław Kaczyński had no knowledge of the background to the procedural decisions made in the investigation in which Barbara Blida was arrested. [[But he gave orders.]] Come on, it's not over. Mr. Kornatowski's testimony. The witness testified that he had participated in one or two meetings held at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers during which prosecutorial proceedings were discussed, in which the name of former Member of the SLD Barbara Blida was to appear. The witness also described that at the meeting the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, then the Attorney General, and the head of ABW Bogdan Święczkowski, presented this case. The witness pointed out that he had also spoken during this meeting and expressed his opinion on the matter. He also did so, as the witness said, present at the meeting of Minister Janusz Kaczmarek, I will remind you, Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration. [[He's also stopped later.]] Konrad Kornatowski, when asked why this meeting was initiated, testified, among others, to what Mr Jarosław Kaczyński said. I quote the Prime Minister: If you have evidence, do what the law provides in this case. So it wasn't an order to stop or arrest. [[Applause]] That's what the witness says... [[Bravo!]] ... Kornatowski: It was as if the presentation by Mr Ziobro, Święczkowski and Kaminski of a certain state of fact of the case. And one more thing for you to have an exhaustive answer, one more brief statement about Mr. Kaczmark, who was testifying in the course of the investigation. There it is. There it is. Mr Kaczmarek, excuse me. It's the committee of inquiry. Oh, there you go. The evidence from the testimony of Kaczmark's witness was not carried out by the committee in proceedings pending in the case of bringing Jarosław Kaczyński to justice, while it was carried out by the committee in proceedings, as I said earlier, concerning the exercise of the responsibility of Zbigniew Ziobra. And on the basis of these statements, which, as I recall, concerned the same matter, in his statements made before the same procedural authority, the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility, he testified: I do not have knowledge of the circumstances of the adoption of the regulations referred to in the plea, and I can use only my assessment. These are witness statements. I will join the committee of inquiry, where Mr Andrzej Czuma worked, otherwise Member of the Civic Platform, chairman of the so-called "Citizen Platform." The pressure committee that came out and here on the speaker said that there was no reason to believe that there were any malfunctions or violations of the law. Member of the Civic Platform. Finally, I will add this to you: the prosecution in Zielona Góra has also conducted investigations in this area and following the investigation of evidence, in particular after the hearing of witnesses, among others. President, the investigation has been terminated. It was abandoned because it was found that the act had not been committed. So I don't know what else you want. Who do you have to interrogate to show there was no crime? [[A squirrel.]] Yes, thank you very much. I think that's an exhaustive answer. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u722	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd motion will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 166 voted against - 266, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Commission shall present in its report a request for termination. The Commission presents a request by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki for constitutional and criminal liability before the Court of State of the former President of the Council of Ministers. On the basis of the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a of the Law on the Court of State, regardless of the content of the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility, the Sejm shall vote on the liability of the person referred to in the preliminary proposal before the Court of State. On the basis of the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1b in conjunction with Article. 1 paragraph 1 point 2 of the Law on the Court of State, a resolution on liability before the Court of State of the President of the Council of Ministers of the Sejm shall be adopted by a majority of 3/5 of the statutory number of Members. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Law on the Court of State, if the Sejm fails to adopt a resolution on the liability before the Court of State, the Marshal of the Sejm shall declare the proceedings to be terminated. Questions are asked by Members. Member Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u723	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It was with great regret that I had just listened to the rapporteur. Do you really believe that those who commit these acts would draw up documentation from their work? [[Applause]] Unfortunately, the criminal mind acts in such a way that when you approach a certain act that is forbidden, you don't leave a mark. Unfortunately, it is with great regret that I must address here some of the Members who were present in the previous term. There was no courage, no consequences, no testimony that you could give to Poles that you could account for politicians, those who were accused of breaking the law in this motion. Unfortunately, the public did not see this coming. This concerns the Platform, the PSL, the Palikot Movement, the SLD and all those who lack determination. That is why today, unfortunately, this opportunity is lost, because when the proposal is lost, it will be impossible to put Mr Kaczyński and Minister Ziobra again before the Court of State. This is an opportunity that won't come back, and this is [[♪ The bell ♪]] negligence for which you will also be responsible someday. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u724	Thank you, sir. I only ask you to ask questions to the rapporteur. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u725	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, it is worth asking yourself questions about this proposal. Did Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński give orders to whom to arrest? Did Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński at the time say which investigations should be continued and which investigations should be stopped? Was Mr Jarosław Kaczyński aware that Minister Lipc should be arrested later or earlier? Is Mr Jarosław Kaczyński Then he talked about which cases to cover up, and whose needs to be accelerated, which prosecutors should be speeded up? Did Minister Ziobro then come to President Kaczyński, then Prime Minister, to consult on which prosecutorial decisions should be implemented more quickly, who should be arrested and in what order? Is this information real? Maybe it's worth it for the public to know the answer to that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's what the witnesses should say...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u726	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u727	...Mr. Kaczmarek, Netzel and others you didn't want to interrogate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u728	Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u729	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the rapporteur. Madam President, is it really so that the opposition's mouth was gagged at the meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility? That's one question. And the second question, to Mr Kropiwnicki, who, I hope, will come out and answer this question in a corrective manner. Mr President, why, for three years, the Platform, with a majority in Parliament, the majority in the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility... [[We didn't have the majority.]] You and PSL did. [[You did.]] Why didn't you hold Mr Jarosław Kaczyński responsible? Why? [[And the Palikot Movement.]] You've had three years to do this. [[There was no basis.]] The fact that there were no grounds is another matter. Mr. Speaker! Who are you complaining about? You've written a weak conclusion where you can't travel media for too long, and you've treated him as a political fuel. [[Applause]] And who do you resent now that, after a weak conclusion, you can't really play a lot? [[Yes, sir.]] I ask you to answer me, and you, and you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u730	Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u731	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This conclusion is a rude attack on the opposition leader who, in his actions, was driven solely by the concern for the rule of law in this country. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The submission of this proposal after 5 years is proof that the State sought and found no serious complaint against the then President of the Council of Ministers. In one of the allegations, you pointed out that President Jarosław Kaczyński was motivated by a desire to establish, detect a deal. Ladies and gentlemen! Amber Gold case, reprivatization case, VAT fraud. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The SKOK scandal.]] President Jarosław Kaczyński was right. Today we can confirm that, this arrangement was indeed. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a good time to talk about the State Court. Indeed, but in relation to a completely different person - to Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But don't be embarrassed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u732	We proceed with the vote on the motion to be held liable to the Court of State. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of holding the former President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński accountable to the Court of State, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The majority of 3/5 of the statutory number of Members is 276. 167 votes against - 265, 3 Members abstained. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, clap and chant: Jarosław! Jarosław! Jarosław!]] [[Poland saves!]] [[Take him fishing, forever!]] I state that the Sejm has not adopted a resolution on the holding to account before the Court of State of the former President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. On the basis of the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Law on the Court of State states that the proceedings in this case have been terminated. [[Applause]] We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Bond Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1599. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1599 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work!]] Wait a minute. I can see that. It's working. Repeat. Who's in favour? Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1599 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The vote was 435 against - 5, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a bill amending the Bond Act. We are returning to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1597-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present this additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u733	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on a draft law amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! At its 43rd meeting on 8 June, the Sejm re-directed the draft Print Act No 1597 to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for the purpose of examining the proposal and amendments tabled at second reading. The joint committees request that the High Sejm reject the draft law, amendments 4, 5, 8, 21, 22 and 25 accept, and amendments 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, from 9 to 20, 23 and 24. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u734	There you go. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Let me remind you that the committees are requesting that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is raised by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u735	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is the last moment for this draft government bill to amend the law on regional accounting chambers to leave with honor. You wish to submit this law to the government service. You're gonna make a government indictment from the regional accounting office, because according to this bill, it's enough to charge the elected local government to deprive them of power. That can't be allowed. But you guys are moving on. In order for you to do this, you just have to have your officers there. That's why you don't look at whether they're pregnant women or if they're protected people -- you want to take them out of your job to replace them with yours. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Marek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u736	I'd ask you to ask questions. Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u737	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! What are your reasons - that you want to transform the state institution empowered in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which is called for the supervision of local governments, into a government body aimed at repression and unjustified interference in the independence and independence of local government in Poland? You repeatedly violate the Constitution of the Republic of Poland in this law, subject this institution to the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible for public administration. I can still hear in the committees, in the sejm's cockroaches, that most of the Members are self-government. You admit that you were the mayors, the mayors, the presidents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Two-thirds of you admit it. So today, in solidarity...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u738	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u739	...throw away this harmful act for the Polish self-government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u740	Mr Jacek Sasin, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u741	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Protas asked for motives. I'd like to ask you about the motives, too, but before I ask you a question, I'm going to quote a piece of the October NIK report. I quote: Local governments have benefited from financial operations other than bank loans and bond issuance because their financial situation has often prevented traditional bank financing. Very often the use of so-called services. parabanks involved the costs of local governments significantly exceeding market costs and led to over-indebtedness and, in extreme cases, to the so-called. the debt loop. The Supreme Audit Chamber points out that pressure on the use of so-called services. Parabanks can be increased and mechanisms must be put in place to protect local governments from uncontrolled debt. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And now the question of motive. Ladies and gentlemen, is it a motive for submitting this draft law just to avoid this situation and to meet this expectation, which NIK wrote about in his report on the introduction of security mechanisms? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it the motive of the opposition that is applying to reject this project in order to lead to this uncontrolled debt of local governments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Jacek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u742	Thank you very much. Minister Glory is standing. Does he want to come in or doesn't want to come in? Deputy Minister of Interior Sebastian Gwałek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u743	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The motive behind the preparation of this project by the Minister of Home Affairs and acceptance by the government was among others. what Mr Sasin mentioned. The question is to delegate further powers to the regional financial chambers so that they can effectively carry out their tasks. They resulted, among other things, in this respect. from the preliminary proposals submitted by the Regional Audit Chambers themselves and from the report of the NIK referred to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u744	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 187 voted against - 237, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority requests from 1 to 6 and amendments from 1 to 14 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Regional Financial Chambers Act. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant proposes not to repeal paragraph 2 of the Act. 4. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal. The question is raised by Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u745	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Using these amendments, we want to maintain the principle that the regional accounting chambers have been consulted by regional sejmikas, i.e. this local government authority at the voivodship level. What's that all about? The seat of the Chamber, its territorial scope, or there will be other teams, so-called. local teams, as well as the number of members of the college itself. The question is simple: Why the government ruled out in this law, deleted the possibility of the host of the voivodship's opinion the organisation of regional chambers of accounts, so what is it about in this region? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u746	Please. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u747	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sasin, you have just offended many hard-working self-government people who represent their communities properly. I understand you've been looking through the experience of the mayors, mayors and presidents of law and justice. If that's your practice, there's nothing we can do about it. However, the truth is that where the discipline of public finances is broken, there are tools for self-government to account for it. Nobody in Poland wants the municipalities to overindebted themselves because citizens pay for it. Often the municipalities have to owe themselves only because the government is taking their money. He gives them tasks without giving them money to carry them out. This is the case, among other things. with education reform this year. Local governments will have to give up other things or indebt themselves additionally to carry out your reform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u748	That was not a question, Madam Member. The first question was asked by Mrs Tokarska. The Minister will be kind to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u749	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the issue of not including among the bodies consulted in the regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers concerning the location of their seats is concerned, this has also been the case, as I have already said many times in the committee meeting, where the rules have not yet included the established Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. In the meantime, the committee takes the view of all legal acts, government acts, which concern local government. The regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers, which I mentioned, is mandatoryly consulted on the committee of the common government and local government and there representatives of all legal corporations, local corporations have the opportunity to express their views. As for the second question, although it may not have been the question, it was a certain claim, this is an example of the municipality of Ostrowice, which repeatedly fell. It was certainly not a member of the Law and Justice. The municipality owed 250% of its budget. The idea of restructuring in the form of planting energy willow in Natura 2000 was very interesting, but it did not accept. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u750	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 198 voted against - 232, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the first minority request, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 inserted in Article. 3 of the Act the applicant proposes that the President of the Council of Ministers issue the regulation referred to in that provision after consulting the competent sejm of the voivodship. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 204 voted against 226 and no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority proposal and amendment 3, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 5th Bill. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. The adoption of these proposals will render amendment 4 irrelevant. The question is raised by Members. Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u751	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Law and Justice! I have the feeling that for you, a day without breaking this document is simply a day lost. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's how you react... [[Voice from the room: You're talking stupid.]] Is that how you react to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? I'll read you the article. 171 of this document. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[That's not a question.]] The activities of the local government are subject to supervision from the point of view of legality. 2. The supervisory bodies for the activities of local government units are the President of the Council of Ministers and voivodships, and in the field of regional finance, the Audit Chambers. Period. I don't see it, but with the help of the regional accounting chambers, the government. So what's the point of this change you're trying to make? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u752	I didn't hear the question here. Madame, I did not hear the question. I'm very sorry, ma'am, but... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[What is the result of this change?]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I can repeat.]] No, don't say it again. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. If you're all... We need to improve these microphones here, rather speakers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u753	Prime Minister! Evidently, by breaking the Constitution of the Republic and by equiping the government institution today to examine the criteria of economy, reliability and purpose of the actions of the local government, you are really digging today the idea of self-government and independence of local governments in Poland, because today, yes, Mr. For kindergarten or school, he thinks it's deliberate or not. Not the council of the municipality, not the council of the county, but the official. This is a clear violation not only of the constitution, but also of the ideas and fundamentals of the independence of local government in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u754	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd minority proposal and the same amendment 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 184 voted against - 247, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes a different wording of the Article. 5th Bill. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is raised by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u755	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At first reading, you tabled an amendment that brutally broke the constitution, and in this amendment in second reading, you break it in a delicate way. I want to tell you that it doesn't make a difference. Therefore, the Modern Posel Club will not take part in this vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u756	Mr Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u757	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I want the House to remember that Law and Justice aren't in charge, but that the amendment of the Regional Accounting Chambers Act... The PiS are bombing local governments. You want to examine the legality of the activities of local governments and their economy and reliability. It's an art break. 171 constitutions. Such a solution affects the independence of local governments. Such a provision was not in agreement with the Tripartite Commission of Government and Government. It's an attempt on local governments. And the question to the Prime Minister: Will you also settle the Marshal of the Podkarpackie Voivodship for 500 million hospital debts? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u758	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. The vote was 315, against - 79, with 8 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. The applicant proposes to maintain the existing wording of paragraph 8 of the Act. 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 171 voted against - 254, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th amendment to the article. 9 of the Act the applicant proposes a different wording of point 7 in the added paragraph. 1d. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Małecki, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u759	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The loans in parabanks have almost 100 Polish local governments. Let me give you an example - Korsze is a small municipality in Mazury, which has over PLN 50 million in budget. Almost half of this amount is a debt. In order to settle this commitment, the municipality borrowed a loan. Where? In parabanks. By borrowing PLN 18 million, the municipality will have to pay back 26 million. I have a question for the Minister: Will the bill allow the regional accounting office to fight this debt of local governments in parabanks? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u760	Minister? Deputy Minister of Interior Sebastian Gwałek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u761	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, Mr President, the amendments made to the Regional Accounting Chambers Act will enable, among others, as part of this screaming change... [[Voice from the room: Allowed, enabled.]] ...on the economic survey of debt instruments, that is, whether the debt in the parabank was justified and whether the interest rate that the parabank proposes when granting the loan was, is good enough or could not be found e.g. A cheaper loan. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u762	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 273 votes against 149 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th minority application, the applicant proposes to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10a bill. The question is raised by Jan Szewczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u763	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur whether he knows why there is such stubbornness of opposition representatives in the provisions of this law, which also allows RIO examine also the cost-effectiveness of decisions taken and the reliability of those decisions. [[Applause]] Isn't it so that something that is legal can be completely uneconomic and can be unreliable, which is illustrated by these issues of debt, even in parabanks? Is the rapporteur... [[SKOK-i.]] ...can it show us what's causing it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u764	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 160 against 264, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th amendment to the article. The applicant proposes not to repeal paragraph 11 of the Act. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 182 voted against - 237, 13 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th minority application, the applicant proposes to maintain the organisation and operation of the regional accounting chambers referred to in Article. It's a law of 15 and 16 a.m. The consequence of the adoption of this proposal will be the deletion of the Article. 7 and Article 7 Eight in the bill. The adoption of the 5th minority proposal will make amendments from 7 to 10 and from 18 to 21. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u765	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! And here you show your absolute efficiency in taking over the state institution under the wing of the government, because... [[How else is it supposed to be?]] A state institution is not the same as a government institution, sir. It's supposed to be independent... [[How else is it supposed to be?]] ...an institution supervising the operation of the local government. [[But he doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, today you are introducing a system of appointment by the Prime Minister at the request of the Minister of Home Affairs and the administration of both the Presidents and the collegiates of the Financial Chambers, which will make them absolutely subject to government administration. This is unacceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u766	Thank you. Mr Anna Milczanowska, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u767	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Is it true that local governments are not opposed to supervisory control, but local governments are opposed to sovereign control, and this control is now exercised by the regional audit board? This is how many regional delegations of the financial chambers behave. Among the collegiates, ladies and gentlemen, there are people who for several decades have these functions, in many local governments have their friends, their friends, and they look through their fingers at how public money is spent. We want to stop this. And don't worry, the state will remain independent, it will be preserved well... [[Voice from the room: How?]] ...good staff, so not like you say we're trading again, because we want to replace someone with our friends or members of Law and Justice, which is absolute bullshit and a lie. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u768	Thank you, Member. I appeal again to your Members to ask questions, not to make statements. [[Yes, sir, oh!]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal, I am still in writing.]] Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 5th minority request, with the consequence, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 183 voted against - 247, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 7th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete the amendment to Article. 15 laws. Amendments 9, 10 and 19 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 8, 20 and 21. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u769	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Law and Justice, speaking of economy, mocks citizens, especially Mr Szewczak. If you want to talk about economics, tell Poles about the mismanagement in SKOKs. [[Applause]] and about 5 billion from the Banking Guarantee Fund, which we had to allocate to save customers. An even greater mockery of the citizens is what we have heard in the committee today that the Government of Law and Justice puts others in a situation of uncertainty, but now only 230. Previously, in the National Tax Administration, 65 thousand were involved. citizens and, in the case of civil service, nearly 3,000. At 230, the fact that you are acting completely against the law of work and with the basic principles of office is no longer of any importance to you. 230 people [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, you will put yourself in a state of uncertainty. What's they gonna look like tomorrow? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u770	Thank you, Member. Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u771	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! For nine years I was a local councilman, councilman of the city of Poznań. [[I'm afraid so.]] For these nine years, I have been the chairman of the review committee, whose task is to control the executive authority, the executive body. I have passed nine absolute procedures, which evaluate the budget and its execution by the President of the city of Poznań. We have carried out dozens of inspections and, as a self-government officer, I have repeatedly asked the Regional Audit Chamber to help with its tools precisely the city council, the Audit Committee, so that the information provided about irregularities takes into account, takes seriously, carries out appropriate procedures. In these nine years, we have never been able to see an action from the regional accounting chamber. And you say it was an effective supervisory authority? It was a joke, and it needs to be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u772	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 7, 9, 10 and 19, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 186 voted against - 244, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes a different wording of the amendment to the Article. 15 laws. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u773	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Mrs Milczanowska said that this should be a well-chosen staff. Or like on TV? Or as in the Constitutional Court? That's how you choose staff? This amendment isn't gonna change anything. There were no selection criteria for RIO presidents or members of the college. So, ladies and gentlemen, there was no criterion, there was supposed to be a well-chosen staff - faithful to the PiS government, no matter what qualifications she was qualified for. I don't know if this was supposed to be Misiewicz's syndrome. And besides, there's no chance in the world that this law that subjugates government... [[But to the point, you're gonna have to deal with the amendment.]] ...discordant to the constitution, she was by the self-government, as my previous speaker said, beloved. All the local authorities, all the local authorities, have spoken against this solution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you lying to the Poles?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u774	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Nobletka, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u775	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the cries of this total opposition, because today you are defending mostly local government officials... [[Who are you? Everyone's never seen you before.]] ...who were in breach of the law, indebted themselves to the mentioned parabanks. Minister... [[Stop telling stories.]] Mr President, I have a question. Is it true that one of the municipalities that indebted during the period 2014-2015 is the municipality of Raciechowice and the council associated with the Civic Platform Mr Marek Gabzdyl? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u776	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 258 voted against - 157, 11 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete the amendments to Article. 17 laws. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club. [[I'm quitting.]] Excuse me, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club. [[But what is it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u777	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I come from a city that is indebted to 5%, and I would like you to say to the Minister, since this is how you support every amendment with statements that the local governments have indebted themselves and that you must introduce your own authorities to control them, and that you must introduce a new instrument so that the Prime Minister can call off every local governmentman, including a member of the council of the municipality, the city, the county and the voivodeship. So I would like to ask the Minister, for the sake of clarity, to discuss the matter - please tell me what percentage of local governments have been in debt despite the regulations that were in force, what was the scale of this debt, and whether it is worth it, please, to destroy what has been achieved in Poland - self-government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will answer to all local government officials... [[We know, we know, we're gonna hang, we're gonna sit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u778	Thank you, Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u779	Mrs Pavłowicz, you will not understand. [[Yeah, yeah, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u780	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 173 voted against - 247, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th minority proposal and in amendments 12 and 13. the applicants propose to delete the amendments to Article. 18 and Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules We will vote on these proposals together. The committees are requesting that the amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority proposal and amendments 12 and 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 261. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 14th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete the amendment to Article. 26a bill. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 164, against - 266. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In minority applications from 7 to 10, the applicant proposes to delete certain amendments added to the law: municipal government, district government, voivodship government and electoral code. We will vote on these minority proposals together. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 15 to 17. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u781	Exactly, Prime Minister, another record breaking the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, namely Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council I know the constitution doesn't mean anything to you. This article guarantees the independence of local government units in the area of the right to judicial protection, while the State proposes an immediate feasibility clause for a supervisory decision calling off or resolving a local government authority. So first you submit the RIO to the government administration, then you increase their competence in an unauthorized manner, and then you leave yourself with a tool to solve any council of the commune, county or county sejmik of the voivodship or to cancel the governor, mayor or president. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u782	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals from 7 to 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 174 voted against - 256, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In amendments 15 to 17, the applicant proposes to delete Article in the draft law. Two, four. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Questions are asked by Members. Mr Marek Owl, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u783	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I want to explain. The Minister knows one municipality in which this is the case, he talks about the municipality of Ostrowice. It is a 2,5 thousandth commune - 2,5 thousandths - the smallest commune in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. And this makes an example that needs to be implemented throughout Poland. If you cared and had pure intentions, in this article you would only shorten the time limits within which the administrative court is to consider the motion, to consider the appeal, but you do not want it. You guys are moving on. You want immediate enforcement, and you do not really give the authorities the right to appeal, because it is written down, but no council of the municipality, no district council or sejmik will be able - because it cannot - according to these records, gather to adjudicate the appeal, appeal to the administrative court. I mean, you're giving it to me, but it's basically not practical. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u784	Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u785	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Everything you said from that speaker about government debt is a lie. The government had a budget surplus last year. [[One had a surplus, and the other owed.]] You owe Poland 100 billion in 2016. [[Applause]] What right do you speak of government debt? You owe 100 billion in one year. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Yes, sir!]] [[How much did you owe Poland for?]] I have a question for the Minister of Finance. I would like the Minister of Finance to explain to the Members of the Law and Justice that Article. 243 Public Finance Act introduced by the Civic Platform Government is sufficient to ensure that local governments do not indebt too much. Stop lying. You're talking about something else entirely. You destroyed the Constitutional Court, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Justice, education...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u786	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u787	...now you want to destroy local governments. [[Applause]] [[And we destroyed the squirrels.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u788	At the moment, Paul Lisiecki, Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u789	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Here's where the line came from. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] that only the municipality of Ostrowice is given as an example. There are more: the municipality of Bielice in the powiat Pyrzycki, the rural municipality of Białogard, the municipality of Przybiernów, the municipality of Brojce, so these municipalities are a bit, it is not only the municipality of Ostrowice. But back to the question. According to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber cited earlier, loans at a high percentage in parabanks led to financial ruin. NIK checked the debt of local governments in the so-called. non-bank financial institutions. Such operations are legal, but, as NIK controllers claim, they create risks associated with the emergence of hidden long-term liabilities. Many of these obligations are hidden in municipal companies. Hence my question: Will the changes proposed by the government and committees allow the Regional Audit Chamber to be audited [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hidden in municipal debt companies? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: They could have done it before. There were no obstacles.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u790	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 15 to 17 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 167 voted against - 236, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 18th amendment, the applicant proposes a different wording of the Article. 7th bill. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Sasin, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u791	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the question to the Minister of Finance, because we have just heard that it is the Law and Justice that owes Poland. And this question is formulated by the Deputy Minister of Finance of the Civic Platform Government. [[Because it's true.]] Well, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: Is it true that during the rule of the Civic Platform, 8 years of government of the Platform and PSL... [[You're Bolsheviks.]] ...the debt doubled, Poland's debt reached the back of a trillion zlotys? Is it true that this was the case for the public finance economy during the PO-PSL governments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Right!]] [[A voice from the room: No!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u792	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour 18. fix., will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 181 voted against 245, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendment 19. We've already looked into it. In the 20th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 8th draft law. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 21. Questions are raised by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u793	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I quote this article: Labour relations based on the provisions of the Law as amended by the article. 1, in the version so far, with the Presidents and Deputy Presidents of the Regional Financial Chambers and members of the Regional Financial Chambers' colleges, shall expire on the date of entry into force of this Act. There are no exceptions, this applies to pregnant women, workers during the protected period. This entry was not created in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, it was created in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. It was created in a resort where sensitivity to another person is extremely high, in a resort that showed this in the murder of Igor, who showed this sensitivity towards Sebastian, who found himself on the route of passage of the government column. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u794	Mr Genowef Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor. But I'd ask you to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u795	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, this amendment we want to protect, protect the employees of the regional chambers of accounts against exemption from the law, and thus protect them from the next staff law. Although this applies only to a group of 238 employees, looking at the wicked method that PiS has adopted over the last 1.5 years, the method of exchanging workers without protecting them from practically nothing... [[How's Elewarra?]] They have no recourse, no compensation, no protection, even when it comes to women. [[How's Janek Bury doing in Elewarra?]] And a question. The simple question is: Why should the employees of the regional financial chambers also deserve to be left on the pavement, like thousands of tax officials or customs officials? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are these people, properly prepared... [[Like Janek Bury.]] ...you have to question about...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u796	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u797	...political correctness? [[How's Elewarra?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u798	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[You go, you go, Zbyszek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u799	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, based on the article. 184 3... 6... please, Mr. Marshal, stop the proceedings. [[Joy in the Chamber]] and gave the fellow Members a moment to think about it. Why? Let me explain. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm a councilman, [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm an MP... [[Bravo!]] ...and I was the councillor of the Sejm of Wielkopolska Voivodeship for six term periods. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Six terms. [[Six? Bravo!]] About how self-governments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, Prime Minister, they manage resources, they make decisions, it's your boss, the MP at the Jarosław Kaczyński Sejm, he doesn't know, because he never knows the councilman. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He wasn't. [[Applause]] That's why I appeal, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u800	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u801	...for a break so you can wake up. If you don't... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr. Marshal won't take a break, you'll lose the election. Then you'll lose the election. [[I can't hear you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u802	Thank you, sir. Paragraph 6 is a request for referral to the committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 181 voted against - 239, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment, the applicant proposes a different wording of the Article. 8th draft law. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. [[Mr. Marshal, you will lose the election.]] The question is raised by Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u803	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Ajchler, you always color us with your speeches of the Sejm... [[The PiS appetizer is out.]] ...but how is it possible that you were in the Seymour's sixth term? After all, the Seym was created in 1999. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u804	No, there were sejmics before, only in a different shape and at 49 voivodships. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] [[A voice from the room: Let it correct, let it correct.]] 428 Members voted. The vote was 407, against - 11, with 10 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr President, please don't disturb me. [[Zbyszek, come on.]] In the 22nd amendment, the applicant proposes that after Article. 8 add a new article in the bill. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Wojciech Murdzek, a club called Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Be tough.]] [[To math school to study.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I'm just asking you to be serious. [[♪ Move, joy in the hall ♪]] [[Bravo, Zbyszek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u805	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that, once this amendment has been adopted, it will clearly be possible to appoint a member of the Regional Chamber without counting the term of office back? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u806	Minister Glory wants to answer? Deputy Minister of Interior Sebastian Gwałek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u807	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, a person who fulfils the formal criteria may be appointed President of the Chamber. There is no cadence backwards, there are two cadences provided since the entry into force of the Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u808	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 282 against - 26, with 128 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 23rd amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 10 draft law. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 172 voted against - 238, 29 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. The applicant proposes that the law should enter into force on 1 January 2019 and that certain provisions should enter into force on 1 October 2018. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of Amendment 25. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u809	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The deficit in the local government sector has been decreasing since 2010. Since 2014, you can say local governments are generating surplus. Last year it was almost PLN 8 billion. In order to ensure that this trend is not lost, so that you can take this self-government surplus into account in the deficit of the entire public sector, the Posel Club The modern amendment proposes that the Act should enter into force from 1 January 2019, after the elections and those transitional provisions which had an earlier entry period - 1 October 2018. Since this is one of the last amendments, and you voted out the wholesale release of 231 members of the colleges, I would like to thank all these employees, statemen for their service, for their cooperation with the local government, for their efforts to make the local government sector stable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u810	It's rare to hear a question be a thank-you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 171 voted against - 236, with 32. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 25th amendment, the applicant proposes that Article. The 8th draft law entered into force on the day following the date of publication. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u811	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This law is the next stage of plucking Polish self-government. And making out of the officials of the regional auditorium of the people who will be the armed arm of the PiS is a scandal. I have a question for the Prime Minister as a former self-government officer. Prime Minister, why do you allow the constitution to be broken? Definitely and ultimately, the article is broken. 171 of the Constitution, because the principle of the examination of the legality of the local government by regional chambers of account is broken here. Why, Prime Minister, are you making the idea of self-government buried? As a self-government officer, you should know that this is a very important segment of our country. [[Applause]] [[How's Janek Bury doing?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u812	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Game in the O.R.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Calm down, please. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] 434 Members voted. 227 voted against - 166, with 41 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole of the bill, Members of the House are asked questions. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Club Kukiz.15. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u813	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Innate legalism requires me to ask a question, but it will be a question, so to speak, insinuating. This bill is bad, isn't it? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u814	Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u815	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I think we're all... It seemed to me that the local government reform carried out in 1990 is undisputed, is positively judged by Poles and we all feel that it is a huge pillar of free Poland, thanks to which Poland is developing so dynamically. Unfortunately, two hours ago, during the meeting of the Joint Sejm Committees, it turned out that this thesis, whether or not this statement finds no confirmation. The PiS Members have far-reaching doubts about this. Do you really not see positive changes in Poland that occur in our small homelands, municipalities, powiats, voivodships that occur because of the release of the energy of Poles, that we have allowed people to rule themselves? [[In Warsaw in particular.]] Why are you ruining this? Why are you ruining this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u816	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u817	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, a brief corrigendum. Mr Ajchler could - to Mr Grabowski - be a councillor, because in the 1990s there were self-government sejmikas and therefore these six term of office could take place... [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] ...though they were not voivodship seymikas, such as they currently function. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the present law, I'm wondering what you're really afraid of here. After all, the idea is that local government spending should be more controlled. This is the essence of this reform. [[Read with understanding.]] And it is not that in this area there is nothing to improve in Polish local authorities. Yes, there is satisfaction with the shape of local governments. This satisfaction today is mostly the participation of local authorities. This is the greatest satisfaction, because the control instruments... [[Man, you don't understand. Go back to school.]] ...there are virtually none in front of them. And that's why this bill is needed even with its shortcomings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And who are these self-government people?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u818	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u819	This is a court day for local government in Poland. The worst in 27 years of its operation. Today, Bolshevik methods want to control self-government. You want to pacify the local government. You're afraid you're gonna lose the election next fall. But that's why you're gonna lose it. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] You will lose the elections in 2018 and you will lose the parliamentary elections a year later, because Poles will not be crushed, will not stop the energy of building their small homelands. That's why I'm telling you again, you're gonna lose the election. Democracy and self-government will defend themselves. Yes, Mr Tarczynski, so it will be. [[Applause]] [[We'll live, we'll see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u820	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that once again you have made a statement rather than a question. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u821	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I go to the final questions, I must say here to the Member who waved and shouted at my address in the previous point: I believe I have the right to talk about staff matters. In 2007, I took up the function of Lublin Voivodeship. The employees were 550 executive positions - 27. I fired nine people in two years. I think I have the right to talk, to yell out loud, what you're doing with HR. [[Game in the hall, applause]] Questions to the government. Why are we voting today on a law that is incompatible with the local government? Why are we voting on an unconstitutional project that makes changes in the system? Why under the slogan "RIO" Are we trying to assassinate the local government? The project gives you an excellent possibility of fast, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because under immediate feasibility, the introduction of commissioners in place of local authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u822	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u823	Really, today is a sad day for self-government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u824	Thank you, Member. The Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak will speak. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u825	Thank you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: To resign! Dismissed! Dismissed!]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We just heard from the hysterical opposition. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] demagogical arguments, such as the argument that the Bolsheviks stood for elections. This is absurd, but you use absurdity every day. High Izbo! This bill is needed. This bill eliminates pathology. [[Applause, bustle in the hall, ringtone]] This bill undermines the interests of loan sharks and parabanks. [[Exactly. Bravo!]] [[Just like in Wroclaw.]] And you of the total opposition defend the interests of loan sharks, defend the interests of the parabanks. [[Applause]] And that's why you're yelling. [[Bravo, Marius!]] But it's not weird because you guys are like that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u826	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1597, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 253 voted against - 189, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and some other laws. [[Applause]] We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on subscription fees and the Act on Radio and Television. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. Members ask questions. Member Robert Winnicki, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u827	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland needs good, reliable public media carrying out its mission - that is undoubtedly - carrying out an educational mission, carrying out a really cultural mission. The question is whether it is appropriate to download a subscription, now in a new form, in the form of a really tax TV, which is dominated by Turkish TV series or TV series, which are no different from those presented in commercial stations. [[The Turkish show is at an hour. 7:30.]] Is this really a mission? Is it really what we watch often in prime time on public television, that is really the fulfillment of the mission? In this respect, it seems that commercialism on TVP, not only in the days of President Kurski, did not decrease, but increased. And if you, as a governing camp referring to a conservative voter, do not understand that there is a need for real cultural change, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Presenting a real cultural struggle, you don't understand anything and you're gonna lose another election. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u828	Mr Kaminski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u829	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government about this bill because you're looking for money for public television. Now I'm abstracting my question for reasons why public television makes too little money, and it spends too much money, let's leave it, but I have a question about why the government doesn't reach very simple in this regard. sources of money. Namely, we have an institution in Poland, completely abused, like a social sender. This Radio Maryja, which does not pay for the concession, gives the programs that divide Poles and sow hatred, which is a disgrace of Polish journalism. [[Applause]] Isn't it enough if you want... [[What are you talking about?]] ...money, simply from one of the richest Poles, like Tadeusz Rydzyk, take money for the radio that broadcasts [[Applause]] And he's sowing hate, and he's doing bad things in our country. Take Rydzyk's money, don't give him the millions we've even learned about today, and then maybe you won't have to chase retired women with cable TV on Mr. Kurski's TV. [[Applause]] [[Go away, Satan!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u830	Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u831	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We must answer the question of why you want this money from Poles. I'll answer you. We have a complete collapse of public television. The year 2016-180 million debts. These are the governments of President Kurski. You defend him like the Czestochowa Cordecks, and this is an outstanding pest. Ladies and gentlemen, intrusive propaganda is turning into an autoparody. Who said that? Bronisław Wildstein. That's the kind of information program you have right now. People don't just want to pay for your propaganda. Today's research shows that 1.5 million people are willing to sign out of the cable station subscription so that they do not pay for Polish TV. It doesn't make you think. You're creating virtual reality in your programs, ladies and gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's up to you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u832	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u833	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of urgency... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u834	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u835	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that the soon-to-be subscription bill you have is only to patch the hole that Jacek Kurski dug up because he doesn't know how to manage? Because what do we have now, ladies and gentlemen? No reliable information, no festival in Opole, no FOOT, no mission, no viewing. What do we got? [[I don't understand.]] Insolence - it is. Censor's here. Manipulation - there it is. And pulling money from the citizens - there is. What's up? Jacek Kurski. Unfortunately, it is. And Mr President, Mr Kaczyński, the media reported that Mr Jacek Kurski visited you today. I hope you told him to clean his desk and tell him to disappear from public television because he's the biggest pest after 1989. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u836	Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u837	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I propose that you write in the article. 2, which reads: "It is alleged that a person who is party to a contract for the provision of pay-TV has a television receiver in a condition to receive the programme immediately, in the view of the person who is the president of the TVP, does not pursue a public objective but a party objective. The cancellation of the subscription would be most appropriate, but on the other hand, the government will take the money from us and the 750 million from the state budget will simply use it instead of building roads or hospitals, so unfortunately it is a bit deeper. Maybe we should think about how we can choose this fourth power and the president, the director. It's up to citizens to decide who's there and who's running this television. Why don't we finance the budget gap for the party grant TV? Finally, law and justice gets 20 million a year. Your TV, your trouble. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u838	Mr Dominik Tarczynski, the Law and Justice have the floor. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u839	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to read the data to be specific. I would like to ask if this attack on Fr Tadeusz Rydzyk is due to the fact that the last audience looks like this: Tomasz Lis - 43 people online, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Forgeman in his car, taxi driver - 52 persons, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Tadala on Twitter - zero. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u840	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 1587 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 199 voted against - 218, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and repealing the Act on Subscription Fees. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u841	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Glinski! I didn't get a chance to ask you that question. The gentleman from the Seym today spoke of telling the truth as you are here in the Seym, but you haven't told the truth today. You said today that you talked to all the communities, but you didn't talk to the most important ones, the citizens of culture and the people who are focused around the civil media. And you, Mr. Shieldinski... I don't know where you are. To you, it's you. Tomasz Lis, Jarosław Kuźniar and Krystyna Janda, whose master is not up to his heels. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u842	I would ask you not to insult each other. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u843	Mr. Marshal! At the moment, we will decide on a project that can at least be discussed at all. This is a project. PSL, which, however, departs from this extra-, extra racket, from the tax that the government proposes. Let's see how this vote goes. But I have to ask, for example. Prime Minister, why have you left Prime Minister Gliński alone and now he has an ally like Mr Tarczyński. I mean, it's really not right to do that. He was sitting here very... [[And what's missing from the Shields?]] ...abandoned and tried to explain to us that this 2 billion PLN is for culture and for a mission. This 2 billion PLN is a dowry for Mr. Kurski. I wonder what Mr. Kurski deserved so much that it costs, Mr. President, as much as 2 billion PLN. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What about the radio? You forgot.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u844	Mr Skurkiewicz, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u845	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Platform and Modern! Why do you want to destroy the Polish Radio? [[A stir in the courtroom, a joy in the courtroom]] Today's discussion, Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, a member of the Polish Radio Programme Council, leads to whether or not it can lead to the fact that Polish Radio will cease to exist because Polish Radio in the vast majority is maintained with subscription funds. And why is the Civic Platform screaming so loud today, and in 2006 Mr. Zbigniew Chlebowski and Donald Tusk talked about how you would eliminate this tribute? You encouraged the public not to pay their subscription because the Platform will eliminate this tribute. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Crisis has arrived.]] You led public media to collapse, about PLN 1 billion did not go to the Polish Television, to the Polish Radio, you caused that... [[And you're paying?]] Of course I do. I pay, I'm proud of it, and I will always pay as opposed to many Platform politicians, modern [[♪ The bell ♪]] and other formations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u846	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1497 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 8 against - 427, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the request and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 by the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1553. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 1553, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 427, against - 4 and abstained 3. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2018 with the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 by the Year of the Jubilee of the 250th anniversary of the Bar Confederation. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1552. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 1552, would like to raise your hand and press the button. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Don't yell. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Not enough of you.]] [[Maybe you need a breathalyzer.]] 433 Members voted. 427 voted in favour, no one voted against, six Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 as the Year of the Jubilee of the 250th anniversary of the Bar Confederation. We would like to return to the discussion of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 Irena Sendler's Year. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1577. The questions are asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u847	Irena Sendlerov: Anyone who drowns should be handed a hand. People should be divided into good and bad. Breed, origin, religion, education, wealth have no meaning but who, who is the man. There's only one thing I regret - I could have done more. This feeling of grief will accompany me until I die. Irena Sendler has saved $2.5,000. children. How easy it is to write a draft resolution, how hard it is to listen to important words, accept them, inspire them, reject selfishness, open your heart and help. Anyone who drowns should be given a hand. Shall we shake hands? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u848	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1577 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 435 voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 as the Irena Sendler Year. We return to the discussion of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 Year of Women's Rights. We'll proceed with the vote. The Commission calls for a resolution as set out in the report in print No 1578. The question is asked by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u849	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, this proposal submitted by the modern Members had a fatal justification. This justification suggests that the establishment of 2018 Year of Women's Rights is to be an opportunity or an excuse to organize in Poland, and do not give God in this House any more black Sabbaths to fight for the possibility of killing unborn children without punishment even more in Poland. [[Stop talking nonsense.]] [[Where's your brain?]] Finally, after consulting Catholic, conservative, female environments, I have just decided to support this project. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The National Movement will support this project for two reasons. First of all, because half of the women mentioned there, the parliamentarians, were representatives of the national camp. And second of all, it's gonna be a great opportunity to [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this House also talk about the rights of women, the rights of unborn girls who are murdered as a result of abortion. [[Start thinking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u850	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u851	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u852	Member Michał Kaminski, Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u853	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question because we are still lacking a clear position of the government and it is worth asking this question on this occasion. Does the government maintain its will to denounce the anti-violence convention? If we are talking about a year of women, I am in favour of this resolution and our circle will support this resolution, but it is worth asking whether the government of Beata Szydło is a government that will declare an anti-violence convention, whether it will maintain the decision of the government of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz and Poland will respect the rights of all families. [[Applause]] [[No!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u854	Thank you. Mr Stępień, President of the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Read it fluently.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u855	That's funny. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland is a democratic country where equality and freedom are fundamental values. [[Applause]] 100 years ago Poland joined those countries where women obtained electoral rights, therefore it is an extremely important anniversary. Important because it covers all areas of social life, it also concerns the acquisition of family, freedom and labour rights. Poland should never get off this road, out of the way of equal rights for all citizens. Women make up half the population. Their voice should be strongly heard in the country, therefore I ask you to support the resolution announcing 2018 Year of Women's Rights, because we are proud of Poles. It will also provide an opportunity for a wide public debate on the situation of women [[♪ The bell ♪]] in public life and will fully appreciate the role of women in Poland. It's an opportunity...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u856	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u857	...to celebrate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u858	Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u859	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Election rights are a very important achievement of democracy. Okay, but, ladies and gentlemen, that was 100 years ago. We can of course be grateful to Józef Piłsudski that he issued such a decree and that women in Poland almost as one of the first to win electoral rights, only I ask, but nevertheless I would like to ask: What about today? [[Applause]] Because I might suspect that if there was a concern for election rights today, I don't know if Law and Justice would give it to us. I'm really not so sure. [[Applause]] I will repeat after you, Mr Kaminski: Madam Prime Minister, you are a woman, so I would like to know whether the government will definitely cease to contest the Convention against Violence in the Year of Women's Rights? In the Year of Women's Rights, will you decide to enter into a dispute with Minister Radziwilla and the pill day after that will be a pill without a prescription? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In the Year of Women's Rights [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u860	Thank you. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u861	...your government will be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u862	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u863	...he could take care of our health. I think it would be good, in your own interest, if you made such a declaration. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[And Copernicus was also a woman.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u864	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 as the Year of Women's Rights, as proposed by the Committee on Culture and Media, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 397, against - 18, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2018 Year of Women's Rights. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Why was there so much screaming?]] We would like to return to the discussion of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the start of the construction of the Central Industrial District. We'll proceed with the vote. The Commission calls for a resolution as set out in the report in print No 1554. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the start of the construction of the Central Industrial District, as proposed by the Committee on Culture and Media, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. Three Members abstained in the vote 421 against - 2. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the start of the construction of the Central Industrial District. We would like to return to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical entities. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1617. I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to present the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u865	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today, at the second reading to the government draft law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical subjects, prints No 1583 and 1617, six amendments were tabled. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Where's the corrections?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u866	Thank you very much. A summary of the amendments tabled was sent to the ladies and gentlemen for print no. 1617. [[Voice from the room: Where?]] [[In the tablet, you have to use it.]] It was delivered electronically. [[It won't open.]] It's been, ladies and gentlemen, delivered electronically, and there's also a sejm printing. [[The grid's overloaded.]] In the first amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 7th bill. The adoption of this amendment will result in the non-objectity of Amendment 2. The questions are asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u867	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! What happened all of a sudden? Yesterday, the PiS Parliamentary Club promised in the Health Committee that you would wait for the project to be co-proceded together with the citizens' project, under which a quarter of a million signatures were signed. Today it suddenly turns out that we have been pushing the bill against the rules of the Sejm's work since this morning. Ladies and gentlemen, there are medical professionals sitting at the gallery. How do you listen to the sovereign? What happened that all of a sudden, at night, we have to proceed with a bill that could wait two weeks and nothing would happen? And you kept her in the freezer for a year. [[You should've filed two more applications for a break.]] So the social initiative suddenly moved you that tonight... we're going to have to vote before midnight, rather push the bill against the sovereign. [[Applause]] [[Don't scare me before midnight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u868	Thank you. I remind the House shyly that the bill was long on the Parliamentary Committee, it is not a freezer. [[Bravo!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 202 voted against - 231, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 7th bill. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 199, against - 234, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the annex to the Act. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 4 to 6 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 3rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 200 votes against - 235, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the annex to the Act. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 5 and 6 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 202 voted against - 230 and 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes a new version of item. 8 and 9 in the annex to the Act. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 6 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 204 voted against - 231, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment, the applicants propose a new wording. 8 in annex to the Act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 204 voted against - 230, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1617 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. Two Members abstained from voting 282 against - 142. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities. We are returning to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment by an absolute majority, it shall be deemed adopted. We will therefore be voting on proposals to reject the Senate's amendments on this item. I didn't ask the Minister to speak. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Good. Both amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties. In the first amendment to Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a and 4a The Senate proposes editorial and legislative changes. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u869	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In Poland seed exchange it's only 18%, in Western European countries it's over 80%. I have a question for the Minister as to which of the articles of this law or which Senate amendment will contribute to the rapid increase in the scale of the purchase by farmers of certified seed, because in my view it will be the opposite. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u870	That's a question for the Minister, but the Minister is at your disposal. That's the fundamental difference. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. The vote was 191 against 244, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes to add paragraph. Article 2 25. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 191 against - 241. That means the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Election of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal (Prints No 1584 and 1592). In view of the impending expiry of the term of office of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Stanisław Biernat, on the basis of an article. Paragraph 194. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 2 (2) 2 Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and paragraph 1. Point 3 (1) in conjunction with Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a group of Members submitted the appointment of Mr Andrzej Zielonacki as judge of the Constitutional Court. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present his candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u871	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present Dr. Andrzej Zielecki's candidacy as judge of the Constitutional Court. Andrzej Zielonacki was born on 16 February 1954 in Osieczka. After his graduation in 1972 at the Second High School in Poznań, he began his studies in law at the University of Poznań. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań, who graduated with honours in 1976. In parallel, he studied Finnish philology at the University of Finland since 1975. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań received a Master's degree in Finnish Philology in 1982. After graduating from law school in 1976, he started working at the Institute of Legal Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences as an assistant. In 1981, he defended his Ph.D. The conclusion of marriage written under the direction of Prof. Zbigniew Radwański and published in the form of monographs. Until 1994, he worked at the institute as an assistant. He has conducted numerous internships and foreign scholarships, among others. France, Finland and Hungary. In addition to his monographs, articles and voices, his scientific achievements include, among others, the following: co-authoring a commentary on the Family and Care Code. Between 1981 and 1983 he took a judicial application in the Voivodeship Court in Poznań, completed with a judge's examination. The same year he passed the bar exam. In addition to his work at the Institute of Legal Sciences, he worked as a legal counsel until 1991. In 1989 he received an entry on the list of lawyers of the Wielkopolska Bar Association in Poznań and since 1992 he has been running an individual law firm. In addition, since 1993 he has been the arbiter of the Permanent Commercial Court of the Wielkopolska Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Poznań - currently the Court of Arbitration of the Chambers and Economic Organisations of Wielkopolska. Between 2001 and 2013 by four terms he was a member of the District Bar Council in Poznań, and at the National Bar Meeting in November 2016 he was elected a member of the Higher Disciplinary Court. For many years he was a lecturer in the training of applicants at the District Bar Council in Poznań, as well as a patron of a number of applicants. Since 2009 he has also worked as an assistant at the Faculty of Law and Social Communication of the Higher School of Social Skills in Poznań. In addition to conducting lectures and seminars, he is a promoter and reviewer of his master's work. He is a member of the Academic Civic Club. President Lech Kaczyński in Poznań. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Andrzej Zielonacki is a good candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u872	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u873	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an opinion on the choice of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the proposal on 6 June 2017, and conducting the discussion, gave a positive opinion on Mr Andrzej Zielecki's candidacy as judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u874	Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club, joined the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u875	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! It's a great privilege not to have a time limit. Oh, I see you're gonna fix that mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u876	Time - 2 minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u877	But very briefly. Mr. Marshal! Once again, you are proving what you needed the Constitutional Tribunal for. We are voting for another candidate for the Constitutional Tribunal, which is only by name. Today you have shown how instrumental you treat an institution that until recently stood guard of the Polish Constitution. First of all, Mr. Marshal is running a curial motion for a constitutional dispute, and really a dispute of competence that is not there. [[Boris, come on.]] There is no such dispute because it was not the Supreme Court that pardoned the wrongfully convicted officers associated with the State group. Secondly, the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General suddenly realized that he had been told that the regulations of K.p.k. They're against the constitution. And thirdly, in its genius, a group of Members of the State directs on the same day a request to actually delegate the Supreme Court. Because what else is it to challenge one of the most important powers of the system, namely to make a really binding interpretation of the law by resolving difficult, disputed legal issues? You have proved that for two years you have been running an up-front action - an action of pacification of the Constitutional Tribunal, which at the moment is a tribunal. Only by name. Congratulations on the fulfillment of Jarosław Kaczyński's dream so that no one can control you. You have destroyed the basic principle of three divisions of power, you have destroyed the independent Constitutional Court, and right now we have a pseudorezes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Three pseudo-judges and really a constitutional pseudo-tribulation. Thank you. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u878	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has given a positive opinion on Mr Andrzej Greenacki's candidacy for the position of... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Why? What about me?]] ...the judge of the Constitutional Court. According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be elected by an absolute majority of the Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Andrzej Greenacki as judge of the Constitutional Court will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. The absolute majority is 204. 227 voted against - 175, 4 abstained. I state that the Sejm elected Mr Andrzej Zielonacki as Judge of the Constitutional Court by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Appointment of a member of the Commission for the removal of the legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law (prints No 1585 and 1596). High Izbo! The Parliament at its 42nd meeting did not choose one member of the committee. Group of Members of the Posel Club The modern one has submitted the candidacy of Mr. Paweł Rabia. On the basis of the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I decided to refer the candidate to the Legislative Commission for opinion. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon in order to present the candidacy of Mr Paweł Rabiej presented by the group of Members of the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u879	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present Mr Paweł Rabiej's candidacy as a member of the Commission for the removal of the legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Paweł Rabiej is 46 years old and is a graduate of e.g. Polish studies at the University of Warsaw, he also studied at the Faculty of Law and completed postgraduate studies at the Faculty of Management of the Warsaw University of Technology. He was a journalist, an investigative journalist. He published expert texts on the economy, finance and market in the economic weekly "Gazeta Prawna" and the business monthly "Businessman Magazine." He headed the consortium, which, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, carried out activities in 2000 and 2001 to build a positive image of Poland abroad before entering the European Union. As an expert, he advised companies and institutions in the field of change management, including real estate companies. In 2009, he established the Thinktank Centre for Dialogue and Analysis, the Social Dialogue Centre, which he led as a managing partner. He was editor-in-chief of "Thinktank" magazine, quarterly for business leaders and public administration dedicated to effective management. He co-authored over 100 reports and analyses devoted to, among others. effective management, ethics and accountability, as well as property and investment markets. He is a co-founder of several projects and programmes improving the quality of management in companies and public administration implemented with government and non-governmental partners. He coordinated numerous expert projects carried out on behalf of public administration and local government. He was a member of the programme councils of many institutions, foundations and educational projects that improve the quality of management, including the Centre for International Relations. He worked as a catalyst for social dialogue processes carried out, among others. for local governments and public administrations and stakeholders in organisations. He was a social advisor in cultural, urban, educational and social projects, among others. in the project of regeneration of the post-factory part of Warsaw Praga at ul. Minsk. The Soho Factory project is one of the most successful examples of reviving and restoring the inhabitants of part of the city. He is a member of the Management Board of the National Modern, co-author of the 2015 election programme of the party and the Modern Programme of Better Poland announced in autumn 2016. He runs an expert network of better Poland, bringing together experts and practitioners from all over the country. He is Vice-President of the Warsaw Modern Region. It shall be chaired by the Panel for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Evaluation of Reprivatization Impacts in Warsaw established in the framework of the expert network "Better Poland" Modern. He's the coordinator. The "Modern Warsaw" Intervention Group dealing with the rights and claims of residents affected by the so-called. wild reprivatisation. Ladies and gentlemen, given the CV presented, Mr Paweł Rabiej is certainly an excellent candidate for a member of the Commission for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. I therefore ask for the support of Mr.Paul Rabia's modern candidate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u880	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Barbara Bartus in order to present the opinion of the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u881	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Legislative Commission after considering the proposal to elect a member of the Commission for the removal of the legal effects of the re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in breach of law at its meeting on 6 June this year. decided to give Paul Rabia a positive opinion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u882	Please. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak? I can't see, I can't hear. I'm closing up. I'm not actually closing up. Let's move on to the vote. The Sejm pursuant to Article. Article 31a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall appoint the members of the Commission for the removal of the legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in breach of the law by an absolute majority of votes. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Paweł Rabiy as a member of the Commission for the removal of the legal consequences of the re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The absolute majority is 206. The vote was 375, against - 10, with 25 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has appointed Mr.Paul Rabia as a member of the committee. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1621). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) At the moment, with a formal request from Mirosław Suchoń, the modern club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's a break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u883	And yet I have to. Dear Marshal, pursuant to Art. Paragraph 184. Three point one, I'm taking a five-minute break. [[Applause]] My proposal concerns a point that was in the current questions. [[Voice from the hall: Who is this break for?]] A break for the Prime Minister, with a request to prepare information, a reply to the inhabitants of ̄ywiecczyn, as to the promised ring road, bypassing the Hungarian Mountains. Ladies and gentlemen, the Slovaks will soon open the D3 motorway. Therefore, some heavy traffic will move from the border in Cieszyn to the border in Zwardon. Therefore, through Milówka and the Hungarian Górka heavy trucks will move. The Prime Minister promised in Bielsko-Biała that this ring road would be built.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u884	Mr President, your proposal does not apply to this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u885	Prime Minister, is this another lie?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u886	Mr President, your proposal does not concern the next point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u887	Could the Prime Minister tell you exactly when the Hungarian Górka ring road will be built here? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Man, go to sleep.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u888	Mr President, I am so sorry. I would like to point out to you that we are at a point on changes in the personal compositions of the Parliamentary Committees. [[Yeah, but that was the point in the current questions.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] No, I'm so sorry, sir. I understand your joke, but I don't accept your explanation. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Marshal!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no. 1621, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 407, against - 2, 11 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 8 June. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of your fellow Members have not yet applied, please subscribe to the floor. Mr Szymon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u889	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Richard's conversation with Grzegorz on the canvas of the poem The parable of Susanna Ginchanka. [[Oh, listen up!]] Once a mute came together with a mute, to enjoy the conversation together, And they started talking - without a word, As usual, with a mute mute. They were talking to each other - on a whirlwind, on a poke, on mines and figs, and from a word like that to a word A conversation has entered the slippery track. Richard put his fingers in the scissor, And it meant, "What about politics? Gregory blinked, and everyone knows that, That blinking means, "Bad! Then Richard smiled tenderly, But this smile said: - Away with the king! So Grzegorz smiled, but And that smile also said: - Away! That's how this bizarre conspiracy started, smiling, blinking, ambiguous and from all over the earth They came in a big crowd with them. They formed with a mute head such a journey as there is little, rebel, screaming at the mime, All the anger that puts in the skirmishes. And when he came, making a little noise, the whole walk under the palace of the Seym, the crowd was silent, silent as a spell, for his speech and voice were cut off. And so he stood rebellious to migi, all the anger that puts in the skirmishes, until he finally left without saying a word. One with the other silent mute. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u890	Thank you, sir. He succeeded in doing something extraordinary, he kept almost half of the room in his statement, [[Joy in the Chamber]] So he set the bar high. Please, Mr Kurzepa. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u891	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Traditionally, on 1 June, this hall was filled with parliamentarians at a completely different age. Girls and boys aged up to 18 arrived here for the meeting of the Polish Children's and Youth Sejm. Of course, this event is educational, organized by the social communication team of the Sejm of the Republic. The young people invited here were recommended by their own environments in order to present the problems and issues that young people today live in. At the same time, she was invited to try a dialogue on the monuments of history, especially those associated with the totalitarian system, and to try to take a stand against the symbolic sphere of shaping the identity of the young generation. I would like to share with the High House two reflections, including sociological reflection. Since I am a sociologist for young people, I participated in this meeting from the beginning to the end, and I did it for two reasons, of course. The first reason is that as a sociologist, I need to feel the heart rate of social life. It just so happens that this heart rate was measured against the young generation of Poles who came here to debate our common homeland. And the second motive is, of course, the strict political one. As a policy of law and justice, I want - and I hope that we can also do this as a political formation - to have a dialogue with young Poles, with a young generation of our countrymen. Allow me for three reflections, which are kind of a summary of the events that have taken place here. The first is this sociological reflection, namely that this part of young people, girls and boys who are extremely competent, substantive, ambitious, have many advantages, among others. social communication assets. They were perfectly configured from this speaker, perfectly communicating with the room, able to put forward the arguments they had prepared in their speeches. The main problem which appears to me - appeared during the session of the Children's and Youth Sejm is that, and this is such a reflection on the political field, on the sociological field, that probably too often and too zealously young people plagiarize in their behaviour the world of adult politics, namely us. For I have such conviction, and the young people also demonstrated this from this speaker, that sometimes there was too much anger in them, sometimes too many fanfares and empty-headedness, for which the facts did not speak, were not right. Why do I say that young people are very zealously imitating the adult world of politics, presenting a somewhat also review of ourselves? In fact, on June 1, the young people here took such careless behaviors that did not have much to do with the responsibility for the word. To sum up and thank the young people who came here for their zeal, courage, but also the culture they presented here, I would like to address three such requests or requests. As a matter of fact, the Sejm meeting concerned the decommunization of public space. Therefore, my dear young friends, girls and boys, in a situation where local governments decide to change their street names. So let's do it. Call the streets the names of the heroes you choose. And the second thing: remain yourselves, remain autonomous in thinking, remain unhindered in court, but at the same time do not forget the responsibility for the word. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u892	Thank you, sir. And I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u893	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On Tuesday, in Lipowa, in Żywiecczyn, we said goodbye to Władysław Bułka, former Member of the two term of office and senator, journalist, trade unionist and socialist. Let me mention that figure. Władysław Bulka has always been associated with Żywiecczyn, where he was born and lived. In 1988, he became the editor-in-chief of the Gazeta Żywiecka and a member of the Kraków Branch of the Polish Literature Association. From 1993 to 2001, he held the mandate of Mr II and III of his term of office from the list of the Democratic Alliance, then until 2005 he sat in the Senate, representing the Bielsk district. Władysław Bulka was a parliamentarians from Żywiecczyn with the longest internship as regards Members and Senators elected in direct elections. This was due to his openness to all the environments and people he was willing to talk to and to whom he helped regardless of their beliefs and views. He faced problems with open heart, serenity, and enthusiasm for solving them. In his parliamentary work, he always focused on the issues of the region. He loved Żywiecczyn and the highlanders, he loved Poland. He took care of regional culture, gathered souvenirs, founded a regional chamber in his home. He was the author of the publication and editor of the newspaper, in which he paid attention to local matters. This is a testimony of how much Władysław Bula was associated with the local identity, how much he sacrificed to preserve it. We're gonna remember him, and we're gonna miss him. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u894	Thank you, Member. And I ask Mrs Teresa Nolas to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u895	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My statement today is devoted to the man for whom the Sejm of the Republic of Poland established 2018 as the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. When he was born on February 1, 1918, Simon and Maria Tokarczuk were a family of peasants. He was born as the fourth son in the family, but the three previous sons died as a child. So the parents made vows: if Ignacy survives, they will give thanks to the statue of Our Lady. They staged it in 1928 when the boy turned 10. The event took place in the Upper Lubiankas near Szbarzyń on the Ends of the Second Republic. Ignacy Tokarczuk was a peer of the Second Republic. He grew up with her as a middle-class host. Early came the recognition of the calling to serve the Lord God. In 1937, he joined a seminary in Lviv and became a student of the Theological Faculty of the University of Jan Kazimierz. He received priestly ordination in the Lviv Cathedral on 21 June 1942 at the hands of Fr. bp. Eugene Baziak. Like most Poles on the South-East Fr. Ignacy Tokarczuk experienced many totalitarianisms of the 20th century. He survived, even though he had to hide from the Red Army. He miraculously avoided arresting the Germans, and UPA issued a death sentence on him. His loved ones died at the hands of the Ukrainians. In 1945, when under the agreements in Yalta we lost Polish Kresa, he was forced to leave Lviv and the parish of St. Mary Magdalene. He never again visited the country of childhood years, but the fate of the Church and Poles was always his concern and emotion. He followed the repatriates to the Western lands, where the Poles were settled, expelled from their fatherhood. He worked among them as a vicar of the parish of St. Christ the King in Katowice. Here the party activists did not like its dynamism and ambiguity. That's always been the case. Later life Fr. Ignacy Tokarczuk was made up of many miracles. One of them was the time when the iron prime minister Joseph Cyrankiewicz did not see his nomination and on 6 February 1966 in the Przemysław Cathedral a strong opponent of the commune, a cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński received the bishop's sacre from the Primate of Poland. In his service he became famous for his uncompromising attitude towards the Polish People's Republic. By the communist state's apparatus, he was regarded as a strong opponent of the socialist system by the structure of the emerging "Solidarity" as a husband of providence and a great advocate of civil liberties. In the homilies he called things by name, and we laymen prepared for life in a sovereign country. He built a spirit of struggle for his own, supporting peasant strikes in Usrzych and Rzeszów. He had an opinion on the talks with the Communists in 1988 by activists of the "Solidarity" centered around Lech Wałęsa. He thought it was a waste of time. Hence so many examples of his criticism of the so-called. A thick line. When he first took the initiative to return catechesis to schools after the 1989 changes, he met with opposition from the government. He never bowed, even though his life was wired. When he didn't get permission to build a church in Jasl, he said, "I won't ask again." Thus, without the permission of the authorities of the Polish People's Republic, he built about 400 churches and chapels and created 220 new parishes, and the communist authorities did not keep up with administrative processes. For all this he was recognized by the President of the Republic of Poland Prof. Lech Kaczyński in 2006 and awarded the highest Polish award - the Order of the White Eagle. Today, on behalf of the agricultural environment, I express my great thanks and appreciation for the initiative to establish 2018 the Year of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk. And before his beautiful attitude and personality, I bow my forehead in gratitude for the good he has received. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u896	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u897	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! 20 years ago, our membership of the Security Council paved the way for NATO. It was the years 1996 and 1997. This time we have gained the support of 190 countries in the world. Our underappreciated and so repressed by the opposition total diplomacy has been a great success, which will certainly translate into the rank of our country, Poland in Europe and in the world, will facilitate economic contacts. I congratulate the President, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, Minister Waszczykowski and all our diplomats, to whom we owe this success. We can say that this is our success, the success of Poles, the success of Poland as a whole. Some, however, do not notice. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it was 27:1, now we have a victory of 190:0. I ask the sportsman: Which score is better? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u898	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u899	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The stud of stallions in Starogard Gdansk is a historical stud with pre-war traditions. The property of the plant is destroying, and the stud itself is in catastrophic condition. The stable currently belongs to the Agricultural Property Agency. There are not enough funds to carry out the necessary renovations to save the stallions that are bred in it. Disturbing signals about the facility appeared a few months ago. There's been talk of her liquidation. ANR says there's no way of shutting down the facility. A repair program was adopted, but it did not help much. The Farm Real Estate Agency would like to sell the stud. With the idea of selling they disagree, happily, local government officials from Starogard Gdański with the president of this city at the head. President Janusz Stankowiak offered to take over the city free of charge from ANR. However, the Agency does not want to accept the free transfer of this stud to the local government. A herd of stallions was valued at PLN 6 million a few years ago. I ask the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, who supervises the Agricultural Property Agency, to preserve the herd of stallions in Starogard Gdański. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u900	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Lydia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u901	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! For several years already annually, in June, at the Cemetery - mausoleum of Martyrology in Olsztyn k. Częstochowa celebrates a festive Mass dedicated to heroes fighting for the freedom of their homeland murdered in 1939 and 1945. In 1940, the Gestapo established a place of destruction in the forest on the road from Olsztyn to Kusiąt. This area was previously known by the local population as the "Shubienice," probably hanged here by convicts. Already at the time of the partitions by order of the Tsarian authorities. The first German execution took place here in June 1940. 14 people were shot down then. Both these and other executions from that period involved inter alia. with plans of extermination of Polish intelligence implemented by the Germans. Among the victims were prisoners from Radomska and Częstochowa. They included representatives of local elites, as well as people suspected of conspiracy. They were all victims of German AB action, which was arrested by officials, politicians, Catholic priests, teachers, professionals and even craftsmen, students and students. The execution was carried out by the Gestapo. Hitlerov action AB, also known as an extraordinary pacification action, was conducted from May to September 1940. According to the Nazi stereotype of the Pole, only intelligence has a national consciousness, and by destroying it, it will be possible to transform the rest of the Polish society into a mass serving as an unskilled labour force. The genocide of Polish elites in the first years of World War II was a joint venture between the German authorities and the Soviet Union. Since the beginning of the occupation, Soviet and Nazi terror has been directed primarily at Polish intelligence and higher layers. The two most famous extermination actions against the Polish elite are German AB and Soviet Katyn crime, both carried out in 1940. They were preceded by joint conferences, during which German Gestapo and Soviet NKVD officers exchanged information and experience. Under Olsztyn, the Germans also murdered members of the resistance movement and local residents. After 1941, the Nazis also shot soldiers of the Red Army from POW camps located in Częstochowa and Olsztyn. Those prisoners were then particularly cruelly treated by the Germans. In common graves in the forest cemetery of the mausoleum of Martyrology there are 1968 victims of Nazism, most of the inhabitants of nearby Częstochowa, representatives of Polish intelligence, including teachers from Częstochowa schools. Later, many political prisoners and resistance activists from Częstochowa died here. In the '60s. This place was duly commemorated in the 20th century by establishing a mausoleum cemetery, which 20 years later was decorated with a relief depicting the scene of the shooting by Władysław Łyczba. On the road there was also a monument to the direction indicator. A few years ago, the cemetery was renovated, renovated and crossroaded. The inscription at the foot of the obelisk is: The nation will never forget them. The annual festivities, the celebrated Mass in the place of doom, are a tribute which we today live to the heroes of those days. So important is the message: Anything that has been a souvenir for us today can be written tomorrow with the dust of oblivion. The abyss in eternity without leaving traces for future generations. It is the duty of the living to gather meadows and crumbs of the most expensive souvenirs of the past. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u902	Thank you. And Mrs Barbara Dziuk, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u903	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement concerns the worship of those who fell in the service of their homeland on 10 April 2010. For some time now we have been appalled by information about the exhumations of the victims of the plane crash TU-154. The families of the victims have not been at peace since the day of the disaster, and now it turns out that they are still praying and lighting candles over other people's remains. Every civilization, every culture referred to its dead with great honor and devotion. The burial site is a sacred place for many cultures, a place of worship, and the deceased is treated especially, as is the burial act itself. With us, the living and the dead are still victims of the catastrophe of the TU-154 and they have no peace, all because of lying. The first one pulls the second one, and the third one drags behind them. No one has any doubt that the disaster could not find us prepared. No one doubts that strange things could have happened. But the weird ones are too much. The number of cases of ordinary sloppyness is too high. Nor was there any care for the remains of many victims, including the head of state. In the coffin of President Lech Kaczyński, fragments of the bodies of two other people were found. The translation of politicians into the matter for which they were and are responsible is bouldering. And the level of speech is embarrassing. The prosecution conducted 27 exhumations, 6 in June, and 26 by the end of the year is planned. The D.A.'s gonna finish it next year. Two bodies were replaced: Piotr Nurowski and Mariusz Handzlik. 9 coffins contained the bodies of the victims of the catastrophe - reported to us deputy Attorney General Marek Pasionek. If today could be exhumed, the details that mattered to the loved ones could be established, if that were easier immediately after the disaster. The media scratches the wounds, families live in constant tension. How much pain these people could spare. All you had to do was tell the truth and exhume honestly. Someone was comfortable, someone lied for peace. And the holy peace fell. Too bad the roof fell on the head of the victims alive and dead again. Both want silence. A period of mourning cannot last forever. The matter needs to be cleared up quickly and closed. Lock the door in front of the media. It's not a show. It's not a joke. The media must find another medium. Those dead already want to die for real and cry out for peace and prayer in their cemeteries, and their loved ones would like to finally give up their loved ones and live in peace of conscience that they did everything in their power. Hello their memory! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u904	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor, Mr Jarosław Sachaika.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u905	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 May 2017, the 42nd meeting of the Sejm held a third reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties. In the vote no. 16 on the adoption of the bill as a whole in print no. 1574 by mistake I voted in favour of the bill, contrary to the proposal made by me at second reading to reject the bill and my negative statements on the bill under review. I'm sorry about your mistake. Unfortunately, the law does not deserve support, because it solves only one problem, the agricultural derogation which had to be solved, but does not solve problems of seeding, breeding and biological progress, which at the moment is the most important for Polish farmers. In Western European countries, seed exchange It's over 80%. In Poland, it's only 18%. Therefore, it is not possible to write partial laws, it is necessary to solve the problem completely so that Polish farmers have access to cheap and good quality seed, which will be adapted to our climatic conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-08-sejm-43-2.u906	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I therefore manage the recess until tomorrow, actually to this day, yes, you are right, i.e. On 9 June 2017, by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much and have a quiet night. Good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 31]]
